I direct a question to the right honourable Treasurer. Has the Government any plans at all to alleviate the burden of high interest rates on the community? I noted none in the Governor-General's Speech. Is the Treasurer aware that the crushing burden rests most cruelly on the middle and lower income groups of our country, adding to the cost of housing, local government rates and so on? Is he aware that some local government authorities are paying interest of up to 8% and more for their money, this rate deterring them from carrying out urgent community development projects? If the Government is bereft of plans in this area of great need will the Treasurer please tell the House why the Australian Labor Party solution outlined before the last federal election cannot be adopted in this sphere as it has been in so many others? 

 - Mr Speaker-- 

Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  put: 
That  the business of the  day  be  called on. 
One honourable member did not need reminding that this was his maiden speech in this Parliament. Nevertheless, I am grateful to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for having drawn this to the attention of the other honourable members. These traditions of Parliament are usually found to have a purpose. Another of the traditions which I am pleased to observe now is to congratulate  Mr Speaker  on his election to his high office. I would be grateful to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if you would pass that message on to him. May the deliberations of this House be such as to deserve the increasing respect of the Australian people we represent. However, I must say that exhibitions such as the one we had earlier tonight which wasted 25 minutes of the time of this House and which was promoted by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  will not do this and I believe that it behoves all of us to see that these sorts of thing? do not continue. I say this as an introduction to giving notice that I intend to number myself among those who believe that it is time that  we  have a hard look or perhaps an examination in depth of our parliamentary system, our forms and procedures. Some reforms are, in my view, required. Particularly must we look at the role of the back bencher to make sure that that role is more meaningful. More help is required with the research work each of us should be doing and this is no reflection on what is being offered in the parliamentary Library. Individual assistance is required in this sphere. 1 hope I. can speak for the diligent city member already when I submit that he certainly needs social work assistance with the thousands of individual problems which are brought to his attention if he is to look after this function properly. If he did this then indeed the rest of his work would suffer. I cannot speak for the country member in this sphere. In addition to this, we must not continue to bring this Parliament into disrepute by fixing our own salaries. We must take the necessary steps to gear our remuneration to a level in the Commonwealth Public Service. I do not intend to pursue this matter further in detail now. I hope to have the opportunity to do so on future occasions. I merely give notice that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  on my side of the House and the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  on the other side of the House, and others, have in me an ally in this matter of parliamentary reform. 
I am proud to be the honourable member for Adelaide here in this place. I am extremely grateful to hundreds who have given me great help and encouragement, and indeed thousands who have given me wonderful support in getting here. I do not intend to waste this help and support by dissipating my time on meaningless activity, and I say this as someone who has been given a special privilege by being elected immediately on reaching this Parliament as Vice-Chairman of the Joint Parliamentary Committee of Public Accounts. I take this opportunity of expressing by gratitude to my colleagues for this. However, the privilege does not  deter  me from striving for the Parliament to undertake more of this type of activity. 
Parliamentary reform rates so high in my priorities not because it is an end in itself but because it is a means to an end. 1 deplore the fact that when my own political party, the Australian Labor Party, is kept out of power for so long by a government coalition of so-called Liberal Party, Australian Country Party aud Australian Democratic Labor Party interests using, let us admit it, so often fear and smear tactics, imputing a lack of patriotism and engaging, as we saw tonight, in other untruthful methods to gain their ends, the needs of the people suffer so. In the Australian Labor Party we have our own inbuilt mechanism to prevent this from happening. Not only is there our tradition of a stronger caucus system with leadership involving the ordinary member far more than with our opponents in the process of decision making, but also ours is a mass party which is built on democratic principles. When policy items find their way from the rank and file in unions and sub-branches through our State conventions and Federal Conferences into the platforms of our Party, woe betide those of us who are the elected representatives in this Parliament if we ignore those policy items. And this is the way it ought to be. This is participatory democracy at work. There are too many in our community who have been hoodwinked by the emotionalism of such false phrases as 'faceless men* and do not understand the great value of this structure. Certainly at times it is difficult to administer but I, for one, am not going to ignore one of the main causes of student unrest, a feeling of removal from decision making. Although there will always be room for improvement, and although we shall ever strive for this improvement, I believe that in my political party we do make an honest attempt to involve the ordinary citizen in the decision making processes. This is democracy at work, and I am proud of it. 
I emphasise the need to improve the processes of our democratic system because I recognise the present dangerous gulf between a relatively small and unrepresentative Cabinet which wields almost total power and the rest of the Parliament - and indeed the people. The great needs of the people which are either not touched or hardly touched at all in the GovernorGeneral's Speech at the opening of this session of Parliament are, in my view, a testimony to this. The first great need is some evidence of planning for steady economic growth. Instead we find the same old formula of an ad hoc and usually inefficient approach to these important matters. Our great primary industries are suffering badly from inflation and, in some cases, from inefficient subsidies. The workers in the secondary and tertiary spheres of our economy are not enjoying the increases in their standard of living which they deserve. 
Wages are not only lagging behind rises in prices in money terms but also - and this is more important - even after judgments of the Commonwealth Industrial and Conciliation Commission, they are lagging in real terms. Early in May it will be 5 years since the Vernon Committee reported and in 4 days' time it will be 4i years since that report was presented to this Parliament - the report of the Committee of Economic Inquiry. On 26th November last, the day after our rather farcical 1-day mini session, the tenth anniversary of the presentation by command to this Parliament of the report from the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review was celebrated. Both of these reports should have been of great economic value to our nation. They hold Ihe key to our economic planning for orderly growth. They have been almost totally ignored. The Vernon Committee report outlined the sort of decisions which must be made for a proper allocation of our economic resources. The report of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review told us what powers are required to make these proper allocations - for instance, control over fringe banking activity and over capital issues. 
I say with all the conviction I can command that it is totally absurd to live in the sort of situation that we do now where this democracy has not got control over the economic side of its life. We suffer from a distorted and inefficient use of our resources. We find all the investment capital we want for, say, hire purchase companies whilst our investments in real development projects such as water conservation and education are starved of funds. We find instead that we are living under a government which is attempting to control our economy by such means as the ineffectual use of interest rates. My concern at this impost is shown by the fact that I got the call from  Mr Speaker  for the fifth question of this Parliament, the third from the Opposition side after my Leader and his  Deputy  had taken their turns, and the first of a new member of this Parliament, and I used the occasion to draw attention to this burden of high interest rates. Let me repeat the question I put on that occasion. I asked: 
Has ihe Government any plans at all to alleviate the burden of high interest rates on the community? I noted none in the Governor-General's Speech, ls the Treasurer aware that the crushing burden rests most cruelly on the middle and lower income groups of our country, adding to the cost of housing, local government rates and so on? Is he aware that some local government authorities are paying interest of up to 8% and more for their money, this rate deterring them from carrying out urgent community development projects? If the Government is bereft of plans in this area of great need will the Treasurer please tell the House why the Australian Labor Party solution outlined before the last federal election cannot be adopted in this sphere as it has been in so many others? 
My question, although I say so myself,  Mr Speaker,  was intuitive. Only 3 days later the overdraft rate, which governs other interest rates in our economy, went up still further. 
Before turning to the Treasurer's answer and discussing his contribution to the debate on the matter of public importance raised by my colleague, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  last Thursday, let me look at the needs. Incidentally, I was due to participate in the debate on the matter of public importance last Thursday but I was gagged. It must be a rare distinction to be gagged when attempting to make one's maiden speech. Let me say quite categorically that if I did not know the needs of the people in this sphere before entering this House 4i months ago, I certainly know them now. I have been appalled at the hardships that have come to my notice in the sphere of housing, as in so many other spheres. Deserving citizens by their scores cannot afford the repayments on credit foncier loans. 
If they already own their homes and are making instalment repayments weekly, monthly or quarterly, the increased interest rates add to their burdens and are responsible for their cutting their standards of living. If they do not already own their home, the day of their doing so is postponed still further. One of the first criteria examined by the lending institutions is the income of the family. This is done to ensure that the family can afford the instalment repayments. When interest rates rise, so do the demands of the lending institutions in the matter of the income requirements. I know, because 1 sat on the board of one of the largest lending institutions in South Australia, as a trustee of the Savings Bank of South Australia. I was a State Government nominee to that position. So more and more of our fellow Australians must turn to inadequate rental accommodation and must take their places on the long waiting lists of the housing trusts and housing commissions of our States. There arc 60,000 in our community who are inadequately housed. This is shown by the recent survey of the Housing Industries Association. 
But it is not only the roof over the head that suffers under a policy of exorbitant interest rates. The other requirements of the home, such as a sealed road outside it, kerbing and water tables, a footpath and other responsibilities of local government, which were mentioned by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  a little earlier, also suffer badly and depress the standard of living of those whom we represent. T make no apology for the fact that on the opening day of the session I asked a question which was prompted by representations made to me by local government authorities in my electorate of Adelaide. The aldermen and councillors in my district are gravely concerned at the needs of their people - my people - not being met. 
The average rate of interest being paid by local government authorities was 6.6% before the latest increase. I shall be very surprised if the rise in the overdraft rate does not affect this within a matter of days, if it has not already done so. 'Private affluence side by side with public poverty' was J. K. Galbraith's well known phrase. We certainly see a living example of it when considering these urgent needs of citizens. Of course, the councils are reluctant to borrow at these rates of interest. The ratepayers in this inflationary society in which we live cannot afford increased council rates to add to their other worries. And so the needs of urban and provincial citizens are postponed, to say nothing of the adverse effects of higher interest rates on those who live in the country areas, too. 
What is all this in aid of? Why does the Government burden our people like this? lt is hard to ascertain from the Treasurer's answer to my question and from subsequent statements by him. First of all he fobs off these hardships by saying that we are not really badly off because interest rates are high elsewhere in the world. He then creates a red herring by implying that it would be the policy of the Australian Labor Party to regulate interest rates by flooding the economy with money. 1 repudiate this suggestion. I have not heard this policy advocated in Labor circles anywhere in recent years when our resources have been more or less fully employed. It is unworthy of the Treasurer to suggest, without any foundation, that we would institute these policies which would, of course, compound the existence of inflationary situations. It is no good his answering me by saying: 'Well, this was the policy immediately after the war." Of course it was, here and in the United Kingdom, and it would have been his policy, too, when resources were under-employed. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, the only credible excuse used by the Treasurer for higher interest rates is the dampening down of what he calls the 'overheated economy'. Let me repeat quite clearly that this is no substitute for proper monetary and fiscal measures to regulate our economy. Higher interest rates as a means of dampening the economy must be based on the proposition that the more expensive money becomes the more demand from borrowers will diminish. But borrowers who live in a fully employed economy, where the demand for what they produce will not diminish despite higher interest charges, do not behave in this way. In a fully employed economy interest charges are treated as costs and are passed on. There is little or no dampening down of demand. 
My submission and that of my colleagues on this side of the House is that the hardships are being caused by this Government in vain. What we want is a government which believes in a proper rationing of available funds st reasonable rates of interest, a government which will see that those funds are devoted to the needs of people in housing rather than in more wasteful investments as at present, and a government which will, as I suggested earlier, act on the report of the 1959 Joint Committee on Constitutional Review, a report which, incidentally, was brought out by members from both sides of the Parliament and which recommends ways of giving the necessary powers for the necessary economic planning. 
With this economic mismanagement already referred to, we suffer a complete breakdown of Commonwealth-State relations, not only financial relations but also the allocation of responsibilities between governments. I do not want to repeat the arguments already covered by my colleagues, the new members for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  and Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  in excellent maiden speeches in this Parliament last week. I merely emphasise that in this last third of the 20th century, with our greater knowledge of the policies required to maintain a high level of economic activity, it is essential that economic powers rest in the hands of the Commonwealth Government. At the same time it is vital that the administration of the policies determined in this Parliament should, to the greatest extent possible, be the responsibility of State, regional or local government authorities. With greater emphasis on regional and local responsibilities, we shall1 be making giant strides towards the goal of decentralisation. I consider that this is the answer to the arguments put forward by the honourable member for Bennelong tonight. 
Lest it be thought that a transfer of some policy making from the States will weaken the position of the smaller States such as my own, South Australia, may 1 say quite bluntly that my State could not have fared any worse than it has in recent years under the present system? We have our own particular difficulties. We do not have the rich natural resources of some other States. We lack water. A great number of our secondary and tertiary industries are bound up in the manufacture of consumer durables, such as motor cars and washing machines, the markets for which are the first to be hit in the slightest slump. Such a slump has overtaken us in recent years, due to the decline in the demand for our goods resulting from droughts in the eastern States and in my own State and to other causes such as the transfer of resources to defence spending overseas. We are only now slowly recovering from this situation with a return of the demand for our products. 
Here was a situation which cried out loudly for sophisticated economic policy and for a stimulus to a State economy which only the Commonwealth Government could give. Instead of special treatment we received nothing but rebuffs. I raise the subject on behalf of my State to record my resentment at the special help not being given. 1 am angry at this Government for this treatment, and so are the citizens I represent. I am angry that the agreement to build the Chowilla Dam, so vital to our State's water resources, is being repudiated. I shall have an opportunity to say more about this in a later debate. I am angry that still no funds have been allocated to commence work in linking Adelaide with Port Pirie on the standard gauge railway network. My colleagues, the honourable members for Grey  (Mr Wallace)  and Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  will, 1 know, be saying more about that. I am angry that just when we needed more funds the South Australian share of the Commonwealth public works programme and of defence spending was declining. 1 am pledged to do my best to see that this sort of idiotic treatment of my State is not repeated in future. 1 give notice also that I shall be seeking such decisions as the allocation of international airport status to Adelaide, not for selfish State reasons but because the build-up of national and international tourism in South Australia is in the interests of all Australians. 
My allotted time is drawing to a close. If in discussing the needs of Australians in this first year of the 1970s I have emphasised to this point economic subjects, this is not so much because this is the area of my particular training but mainly because I consider that maximum growth through sensible economic planning is the key to achieving that other worth while objective of those of us who believe in democratic socialism. I refer to fairer shares of the growing economy and the ever increasing gross national product. In this context I look forward to promoting a national superannuation scheme as an important step in the fight against the poverty which is in our midst and which is so clearly a result of our existing inadequate social service provisions. We have seen a little today of the patching of existing provisions. 
I look forward to comparing my Party's equitable health proposals with the hotchpotch being served up by the present Government in its attempts to patch its existing inequitable health scheme. I look forward to advocating more Commonwealth involvement in all forms of education and in assisting local government bodies to provide their vital services to satisfy the great and numerous needs of our cities. I look forward to advocating leadership on the part of the Government in the important matter of price restraint. I know that price control without the rationing which necessarily goes with it in wartime, but which would not and could not be tolerated in peacetime, is no panacea in the fight against inflation. But I also know that prices branches can play worthwhile roles in drawing attention to exorbitant prices, and thus exorbitant profits, stimulating greater efficiency and, increased productivity - in other words, in promoting that restraint which has been so sadly lacking in our country in recent years due to the total lack of Government leadership in this sphere. 
So far,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  1 have not mentioned other particular interests such as a need for an involvement in Asia and the Pacific without the dangers of a military presence - in other words, let me say quite clearly that I stand firmly behind our policy of a military withdrawal from Vietnam. Other interests include a need for the greater education of our people concerning the lack of substance in the domino theory as it applies to the old French Indo-China; a need for a thorough overhaul of our tax system and the possibility of continuing research outside the Taxation Branch in a Canadian type tax foundation; a need to stimulate efficiency and productivity among smaller businessmen by the formation of a United States type small business administration department of the Commonwealth Government; and a need to co-ordinate the economic policy of our Commonwealth in one department rather than suffer the present confusions of this policy being determined on an ad hoc basis in many different departments. I thank the House for its courtesy. I look forward to applying myself to all these subjects and more now that I am privileged to serve as the representative of the electorate of Adelaide in this national Parliament. 
I want to participate in this debate in order to elicit from the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  an interpretation of clause 4 of the Bill. Some of the points I want to make about the clause I would have preferred to have made during the second reading debate, but unfortunately that was gagged. I hope I will not be transgressing against the Standing Orders by raising the points now. Clause 4 reads: 
The purpose of this Act is to assist in the establishment, expansion, improvement and maintenance of delivered meal services. 
As the Minister pointed out, South Australia has a very well developed organisation called Meals on Wheels Incorporated, which provided no fewer than 376,131 meals in the 1968-69 financial year. 
The first point to be made is that hardly do we need to establish a Meals on Wheels organisation in South Australia. I am informed further that there is very little room for expansion in South Australia. This is due to the wonderful work of Miss Doris Taylor, to whom the Minister paid tribute in his second reading speech and whom I would like to mention at a little greater length now. Due to her work and to the wonderful work of many hundreds of voluntary workers, we now have an organisation with at least 17 kitchens in the 
City of Adelaide and its environs and we have organisations in many country districts. I am informed that only 5 or6 country towns in South Australia at the moment could take further services. However, because of the policy of the South Australian Government, it has become increasingly difficult for the Meals on Wheels organisation to move to those centres. As the Minister will know, the State Government still has to provide a subsidy to Meals on Wheels Incorporated, although that subsidy has been reduced from about $18,000 in 1967-68 to about $5,000 in 1968-69. We must anticipate that the $37,000 that the Commonwealth Government would supply to the Meals on Wheels organisation under this Act would remove the State Government from the field of subsidising the organisation. Perhaps the restraint put on the Meals on Wheels organisation to prevent it from expanding in 1 or 2 of these other areas would be removed. This wonderful organisation can do very little to expand in my own State. The third purpose, which is improvement of the scheme, is outlined in clause 4 of the Bill. The Minister has shown how very little room for improvement there is. He said I think, that the sort of meal that is being provided by these good ladies is such that it is almost 2 meals. 
We are left with the question of maintenance. Although it may seem extraordinary to the Minister - and indeed I am uncertain of the answer to this question - there are people in the organisation who are worried that they cannot fulfil all these purposes, firstly, of establishing an organisation, secondly of expanding it, and thirdly of improving it. Perhaps the only one that they can fulfil is that of maintaining it. They are worried that the Bill will not be applicable to them. I hope that that is a valid point and something that the Minister will answer. 
Before resuming my seat I would like to point out that the organisation is so well established now that it will be able to do a lot more. Perhaps it will not be able to do more in the delivered meals area. It is existing very well on the revenue from badge day collections, economy shops, waste paper collection and sales and the small subsidy from the South Australian Government. I would like to have an assurance from the Minister that the other services which such an organisation gives in the way of chiropody and library services will be taken into consideration. One can think of many other ways of helping elderly people who badly require help. I want to support what my colleagues, the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  and the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  have said in relation to the second reading speech. Without a comprehensive survey of the social welfare needs of our nation we do not know, to the extent that we should know, just what other services such an organisation should be giving to the elderly people of our nation. I do hope that there will not be any restrictions on this organisation which is so well established in Australia. In my own State there should not be any restriction on Meals on Wheels Incorporated receiving the full amount to which it is entitled under the Bill even though it might not be able to apply that amount in other areas. 
I would like to mention Miss Doris Taylor and the way in which she established this organisation. Perhaps I will be allowed to do so under this clause and stay within the Standing Orders. It was my privilege to meet Miss Taylor when we were both appointed as the first members of the Social Welfare Advisory Council in South Australia which was set up under the Labor Government's new Social Welfare Act in 1965. As I think the Minister knows, she was a person who was crippled all her life. She was in a wheel chair. By the time I knew her she was an elderly person. I pay tribute to her indomitable courage and to her great achievements. There is no better achievement than the organisation which she has built up and which, as the Minister has pointed out, provides 322 meal's per 1.000 of the South Australian population. This is more than double the number of meals provided by all the other States except New South Wales and Tasmania. Those States provide just over half the number of meals per 1,000 provided in South Australia. 
Because of the spirit that has been displayed and because of the organisation that has been built up in South Australia it is my earnest hope that in my State we will be able to move on and achieve more in this way. I wish that we knew more about the needs of the people in this, area and I wish that we had a social services department which could carry out, in conjunction with the Bureau of Censusand Statistics, the necessary surveys of our elderly community to find out what their needs are. It is interesting to note that it was with Miss Doris Taylor on the Social Welfare Advisory Council in South Australia that I first came across the great need for a social welfare survey. At the time we were studying the public relief payments in that State. We came up against the fact that the necessary statistics were not available. I hope that the Commonwealth Department of Social' Services will provide those statistics and I hope that such an organisation as Meals on Wheels Incorporated will be able to cater for the needs shown in the survey. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry will recall that he issued a statement dated 12th February 1970 defending the proposed Industry Development Corporation and that he repeated the information in a second reading speech on the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Bill 1970. The right honourable gentleman drew an analogy between EPIC and the proposed Corporation, pointing out that EPIC had also been attacked as a Socialistic measure but claiming that it was a sound business venture'. I ask: Now that the Minister is a convert to Democratic Socialism, is he planning to promote some other government or semi-government institutions? May I draw his attention particularly to the needs relating to other forms of insurance? (Question not answered) 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)I point out to the honourable member for Adelaide that a question must relate to the department under the control of the Minister to whom the question is addressed. A Minister is not to be asked for an expression of opinion or to comment on a hypothetical question. 
-I am able to ignore the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  because he spent his time attacking this side of the House for a position that we have not taken. I hope that the honourable member will stay in the House and hear exactly what our position is. I am strongly supporting the amendment moved by my Opposition colleague, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  Also, I shall be supporting his amendments at the Committee stage if this amendment is not successful at the second reading stage. I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson at this stage because I am appalled at the shallowness of the knowledge of our requirements and capacities in the matter of water conservation. We. have conflicting technical committee reports. We have questions unanswered to such an extent that reasonable men cannot come to rational decisions as to where the next development should be. 
Confusion has been compounded by the speech delivered by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  earlier this afternoon. He admitted - surely he would not have done so had he still been the Minister for National Development - gross blunders in past technical committee reports. It is no wonder that we have lost all confidence in existing material, existing data, upon which these enormous decisions have recently been made. We are practising our Austraiian predilection for taking a punt or having a bet that perhaps Dartmouth is better than Chowilla. Instead, we need more studies on these matters and we need them urgently. We need a national water conservation and construction authority to carry out systematic work in depth in this field. Instead, we have attempted to survive with a River Murray Commission which is grossly understaffed. I would mention that in one annual report that I have seen the River Murray Commission deemed it wise to include the information that they had put on an extra typist - to show just how understaffed they were. This Commission does not have authority over a sufficiently wide area of our country. I remind the House that the Commission has no control, for instance, over tributaries to the west of Albury. It is obliged to call in consultants to make ad hoc assessments from time to time. This is the situation that we are faced with under the present Government, which seems to be doctrinairely opposed to systematic planning. This subject is of vital concern not only in relation to our survival and economic development, but also in relation to our national resources. In other words, it is of vital concern to conservationists. 
Concerning pollution, salinity is only one of the problems, although it is a very grave one. There is also the matter of slag and silt developing in our rivers, our vital waterways. In this effort of ours for national prosperity we need this authority. We need the Opposition's amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill - we need it urgently. 
Having said this, however, I do not want to give the impression that there are not immediate problems which must be tackled. Setting up a national water conservation authority might sound like a long term project. I know that there are urgent problems now and 1 know that my colleague, tha honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  will be highlighting these later in the debate. I hope that he will not be gagged before he has the opportunity to do so. I do not envisage that the setting up of a national water conservation and construction authority, embracing the already existing Snowy Mountains Authority and also, of course, the existing River Murray Commission, will delay these matters of urgent necessity for any length of time. We already have the nucleus of an authority to get on with these matters which call for urgent action. 
This brings me to the matter of my attitude to the Bill if our amendment to the motion for the second reading is not accepted. It also highlights my attitude and that of my colleagues to the immediate function of the water authority, if the Government agrees to it being set up. In no way at this stage must Chowilla be abandoned, just as in no way is anyone supporting the abandonment of Dartmouth. The Government is, however, virtually supporting the abandonment of Chowilla by proceeding with this Bill. I submit that this course of action, this abandonment of Chowilla, is not just a grave injustice to my State of South Australia but is at this stage a national waste, a national scandal and something of concern to all Australians. 
Before driving home this point and explaining my case, 1 draw to the attention of the House once again why Chowilla is abandoned under this Bill. It is abandoned because Clause 6 of the Bill adds the eighth schedule - 'the sixth further amending agreement' as it is called - and this schedule contains clause 10a which provides for inlet and outlet works to Lake Victoria. It is no good the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  saying that we must continue to fight when we have the facts before us in a Bill like this. The fight could not continue beyond tonight. The expected tender cost of these inlet and outlet works is in the vicinity of $7m. The Chowilla Dam as at present planned floods Lake Victoria - it completely inundates it. This will be $7m of taxpayers money literally down the Murray drain. Is this not the abandonment of Chowilla? Would this not be a national scandal with nearly $6m wasted to this stage on Chowilla already? This is the amount that has already been spent on that project. 
Of course, we cannot envisage spending $7m on inlet and outlet works at Lake Victoria and then inundating the lake. Bui this is not all. Clause 13a of the Eighth Schedule adds to the Agreement with these words: 
However, completion of the construction of the Chowilla Reservoir shall be deferred until the contracting governments agree that the work shall proceed. 
With $7m already spent on Lake Victoria are all the contracting governments going to agree to the flooding of this $7m work? Of course not. That is why we propose the deletion of clauses 10a and 13a and trust that honourable members from South Australia in particular and others on the other side of the House will support us. 
But the matter does not rest there. We highlight once again our considered judgment that the necessary studies had not been done to warrant the abandonment of Chowilla. If we cannot have our national water conservation authority to carry out as its first task an evaluation of the possibility of a 2 dams policy, then we know that tor this task there is a structure already in existence to carry out such an evaluation. So we propose that instead of ratifying the Agreement and approving the Bill here and now approval should not be given until an immediate computer evaluation of the construction of storages of various capacities for both Dartmouth and Chowilla has been completed. 
So much for the actual position which we take on this side of the House. 1 know that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has already outlined this position. But from the remarks of such speakers as the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  and the honourable member for Mallee it would seem that they have not fully absorbed what our position is on this issue. 
I have absorbed precisely the position on this issue and 1 am fighting hard to see that Chowilla is not abandoned. I have indicated some reasons for taking this position, and so have my colleagues who have spoken in this debate. But I want to add to this - and in doing so 1 believe that I speak not only as a South Australian but as an Australian who believes in balanced development. 
The first point I want to make very strongly is that River Murray water for South Australia is not only a matter of irrigation; it is a matter of existence for thousands upon thousands who gain their livelihood from secondary and tertiary industries, and who live in our urban communities, mainly, of course, in my own City of Adelaide. Our concern arises from the fact that 85% of the South Australian population depends on water from the River Murray. When the Tailem Bend-Keith pipeline is completed the figure rises to nearly 90%. 1 want to say more about South Australia's needs. I am going to draw heavily from a paper delivered by  Mr C.  Warren Bonython entitled 'Water Availability in South Australia in the Decade Ahead'. I should explain that, in what follows, water volumes are referred to in terms of a unit which is 1,000 million gallons. Water volumes are often quoted in acre feet, especially those concerning the flow of the Murray, but since my emphasis must be on domestic and industrial consumption in the urban areas it is felt that 1,000 million gallons or, 'one unit' is the more appropriate term to use. Incidentally, I should explain for those who want to do some calculations that one unit is just under 3,700 acre feet of water.  Mr Bonython  had this to say: 
Metropolitan Adelaide now has a population ot over 780,000 and it annually uses nearly 30 units of water - 
That would be 30.000 million gallons of water - half of which comes from the Mount Lofty Ranges catchments and half from the Murray. On the basis of the 1962 Town Planning report, the population will grow to Lt million by 1981 and 1.3 million by 1988. lt could then be expected to grow further to I.S million by 1995, 1.65 million by 2000 AD . . . 

 Mr Bonython went on in his address to explain how our average rate of usage of water has been increasing. He notes:  . . departmental planning considers it prudent to base estimates on rates gradually rising to a maximum of (50 gallons per day by 2000 AD. 
Using the last as a basis for metropolitan Adelaide, and adding a little extra to include the Barossa Water District, the expected consumption for all urban purposes - that is residential, municipal and industrial - in 2000 AD will be over 3 times what it is today. 
That is from 30 units or 30,000 million gallons to 95 units or 95,000 million gallons per annum. This is for Adelaide alone.  Mr Bonython  went on to say: 
Areas outside metropolitan Adelaide that are at present supplied with reticulated water - for example. Whyalla, Port Pirie, Port Lincoln, Mt Gambier and a number of country farm land areas - require an amount that is approximately 40% of that supplied to Adelaide. It is considered that this proportion of 40% will still hold good in 2000 AD, so in that year an allowance of 38 units per annum should be made for those areas. 
The needs for Adelaide and other urban areas of South Australia can be summarised as follows: The needs now for metropolitan Adelaide are 30 units and for other urban areas 9 units, a total of 39 units. In 30 years hence in the year 2000 the needs are estimated to be: Metropolitan Adelaide 95 units; other urban areas 30 units - a total of 125 units. This is to mention only urban needs. About 105 units of water are at present used or committed for irrigation in South Australia, and this corresponds to about 1,105,000 acres of irrigated land. May I say that on our side of the border in South Australia, due to State government policy, this has not been haphazard development but planned development? It has been planned in relation to water availability. I wish I could say the same about the use of water for irrigation in New South Wales and Victoria, but I cannot say this. From the information I have been given, the development has not been properly planned, and my colleague the honourable member for Riverina for one has been left with the aftermath of this. Let me make a plea for more planned development in the future, bearing in mind the needs of all Australians. 
One hundred and five units for our own South Australian irrigation areas is a lot, and at present rates of water availability there is not much room for expansion. It is no wonder that the citizens of the Murray are, in spite of the actions of their representative in this Parliament, vitally concerned with this important subject. It is no wonder that we in South Australia are particularly concerned with this subject. We cannot see at this point how our water needs are to be met in the year 2000 at the present rate of availability of water. But there is more than this: In spite of the fact that the present availability will be inadequate in 2000 A.D., there are other problems. There is the whole question of salinity. 
Because of the lateness of the hour I will not quote further, as I had planned to, from  Mr Bonython's  speech on this subject of South Australia's needs, but I do want to say that I make no apology for reverting to his paper in a speech such as this in this Parliament. Not only does it outline the urgency of the problem of my people, the people I represent, but what I must point out is that this paper, which comes down heavily for the Chowilla dam, is a learned paper, not a shallow document concocted for any political purpose. Its message should be noted with care. It bears out the position which we on the Opposition side of this House have taken. There is a need for more study and a need for both dams. 
Before concluding I would like to repeat briefly some of the reasons why we take up this position on this side of the House and say that more studies are required and there is a need for both dams or at least studies to see whether both dams are feasible. These are the reasons why we cannot countenance acceptance, on present information anyway, of the Dartmouth Dam to the exclusion of the Chowilla project; the reasons why  Sir Thomas  Playford cannot accept the position; the reasons why  Mr J.  R. Dridan, a former member of the River Murray Commission from South Australia cannot accept the position; the reasons why apparently the honourable member for Angas, who has temporarily disappeared, and who was on the Chowilla Dam Promotions Committee for so long with colleagues such as  Sir Thomas  Playford and  Mr Dridan,  as the minutes of that committee show, cannot accept the position; the reasons why the State Labor Opposition in the South Australian Parliament cannot accept this position, and indeed the reasons why the people of South Australia cannot accept this situation, as witnessed by the majorities received by myself and 7 colleagues from South Australia in the last general elections. Eight out of the 12 representatives from that State sit on this side of the House. 
Firstly, there is the original River Murray Commission report on the proposed Chowilla storage, which has been discounted. I have a copy with me now. Hansard of 17th October 1961 shows that the report was introduced into the Parliament by the late  Senator Sir William  Spooner. It states quite clearly that full consideration was given at that stage to the possibility of constructing an additional water storage or storages above the Hume Reservoir. Secondly, there are so many unknowns in relation to the second technical committee report, so many questions to be answered and so many assumptions made which need further examination. I have been unconvinced by the whitewashing undertaken by Government speakers today on this subject. The South Australian Liberals have literally gone to water - Dartmouth water. They are as weak as  Mr Hall,  the Premier in South Australia. The coming elections in that State, if we are fortunate enough to have them, will be a test of character and, as much as anything, a test of leadership. I am supremely confident that the people of my State will back Don Dunstan to the hilt and that, with leadership, the rights of South Australia will be protected, not at the expense of the rest of Australia but for the economic development of my State and therefore for the benefit of all Australia. 
But let me return to the unknowns - the questions yet to be answered in respect of the second technical committee report. Why has the former Minister for National Development, the present honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  not answered the charges that he was anticipating the results of the inquiry before the technical committee had reported? I suppose it is because the evidence is incontravertible. It is in the minutes of the River Murray Commission. Why is it that an assumption has been made in feeding data to the computer for this report that 900 cubic feet per second, or 900 cusecs, is the required rate of flow past Mildura whilst a far lesser flow is apparently good enough for Loxton, Waikerie and other river towns in my State? It is not good enough for the honourable member for Farrer to tell the House that favourable results were achieved at 300 cusecs. This has not been published. Why should I at this stage accept his word for this? 
Why is it that terms of reference were given to the committee to increase the yield, in fact, to maximise the yield to New South Wales and Victoria and not to seek this gain for South Australia? South Australians have a particular reason to feel resentment at this. We have had, as 1 said earlier, a proper system of licensing irrigators in our State to make sure, as far as it is possible to do so, that there will be sufficient water in drought years. We are witnessing other States in trouble because they have not been so prudent, and yet they are deriving advantages because of their mistakes. I have one more question relating to the second technical committee report. When considering evaporation why is  it  that the technical committee based a good deal of its comparisons between Dartmouth and Chowilla on a 3.5 million acre feet Chowilla storage and not the original 5 million acre feet storage? These are valid questions, and reasons enough to have doubts. These doubts, I remind the House, are the cause of the stand the Opposition takes tonight. 
So much for the questions I raise in relation to the second technical committee report. Let me just make  a few  more points before leaving this report. Firstly, even the Minister in his second reading speech admitted that salinity is not  a  factor to be considered in comparing the 2 dams. This is the subject of confusion in a number of quarters. Secondly, a comparison of costs provides no reason for rejecting Chowilla. A modified Chowilla with  a  lock removed  is  estimated to cost $62m,  Inclusive  of the $5m to $6m already spent. Dartmouth, on preliminary estimates, is expected to cost $57.5m, together with up to another $7.2m for works on Lake Victoria  - a  total of up to $64. 7m. There is no saving of money in building Dartmouth dam. However in the case of Chowilla we are comparing a real tender price against an estimated tender price in the case of Dartmouth. 
This brings me to the final reason why j think another look at this question is justified. Basic legal rights are involved. We cannot contradict the fact that at the time the Snowy River scheme was being developed South Australia withdrew an injunction in the High Court of Australia in return for Chowilla. South Australians have contributed to the Snowy Mountains scheme for more than 20 years for no return. We have rights to special consideration in the matter of having a storage nearby where water cannot flow upstream and be used by others. Let me just return to our position, which the honourable member for Mallee and others have ignored. The Government is treating this debate as though we want to kill Dartmouth or are considering the building of Dartmouth and Chowilla both at their present size. That just is not so. We are not satisfied that sufficient studies have been made of the various permutations and combinations that are possible. We want those studies. We want a proper structure to undertake those studies. We certainly do not want a Bill which, in effect, means the abandonment of the important Chowilla storage project. 
 I rise at this stage to outline the experiences that we on the Opposition side of the House have had during the course of the debate on the Bill and which have brought us to the conclusion that we must oppose the third reading. If I am within the Standing Orders I should like to remind the House that we moved, at the second reading stage, an amendment which had the effect of pointing out quite clearly our belief that insufficient information - insufficient research - was being undertaken in Australia at present into the matter of water conservation. We pointed out that the River Murray Commission was not only understaffed but also was limited in the area which it covered. We proposed, at the second reading stage, that a water conservation and construction authority should be set up in Australia to do the research in depth which was necessary for a proper appraisal to be made as to whether we should have Dartmouth or Chowilla as a matter of priority, or whether indeed - and this is our priority at the moment - necessary studies should not be undertaken for both Dartmouth and Chowilla to be built simultaneously. 
The assumption was made during the debate that members of the Opposition were fighting for the abandonment of Dartmouth. This was in no way true. We recognise that Dartmouth is feasible as a dam on the River Murray. We were fighting for the rights of South Australia to Chowilla, and were fighting against this Bill inasmuch as it caused the abandonment of Chowilla. When our amendment was defeated and we were unable to have the water conservation authority to do the necessary studies, we pointed out that we would not oppose the second reading itself but would, at the Committee stage, move certain amendments which would remove from the Bill those clauses which quite clearly lead to the abandonment of Chowilla. 
I point out to you,  Mr Speaker,  a fact that has not been raised so far this morning, although it is pertinent to other matters which took place. In my speech on the second reading at 10 p.m. last night I clearly outlined two of the three amendments which were to be moved. One minute short of 2 hours later, that is at 11.59 p.m., members of the Government side were apparently denying that they had any knowledge of these amendments. I admit that I did not mention the third amendment. 

 - Mr Speaker, I will not occupy the time of the House for long but I have been spurred by the speech of the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  into taking a little more of the time of the House than I originally intended. I feel that he has not collected his copy of the amendment and has completely misled the House - I presume through ignorance rather than through deliberate action - as to its nature. 
As the sitting has been suspended for dinner since the amendment was moved, I would like to draw the attention of honourable members to it. It states: 
. realising that some estate planning may already have been effected following the promise of this legislation on 24 September 1969, the passage of this limited Bill which offers some measure of relief from death duties in the rural sector is not opposed, but the House is of opinion that it is inadequate, as it fails to recognise- 
The amendment then lists a few of the reasons as to why we consider the legislation needs further attention. 
The amendment clearly states that we of the Opposition are not opposing the passage of this limited Bill yet the honourable member for Cowper spent a lot of time suggesting that we are holding up the small benefits that will be available to country areas because of our attitude here tonight. This one thing clearly shows his misunderstanding of our point of view. The honourable member then used such emotional phrases as 'slashing of values' although the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  had quite rightly and generously paid tribute to the excellent diagnosis of the situation put forward by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  who had led for the Opposition. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports, who moved the amendment, received tributes from the honourable member for Corangamite for his diagnosis of the situation in the countryside and for pointing out that large capital units were required in the various spheres of primary production. 
The Opposition,  Mr Speaker,  has no slashing of values in mind at all. Before i leave the contribution of the honourable member for Cowper, it is very interesting to draw attention to the difference of opinion between him and the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  The honourable member for Gwydir spent much of his time in making an emotional attack on death duties. I am sure that for vote catching reasons every honourable member would like to climb on that bandwagon. But many of us are more responsible. We will not promise the community that death duties can be lifted because there are great calls on the Government for finance for education, health and other things that we know about. I am sorry if I misunderstood the speech of the honourable member for Gwydir but anybody who reads Hansard will learn that that is what he did. It was good emotional stuff. He pointed out how iniquitous it is to have any  sort  of death duties. I am sure all of us feel the same way but we would like to know in a constructive way what the honourable member for Gwydir and those who support him propose to do. Incidentally, the honourable member for Cowper is not in the same category because he was full of praise for the Government and was very anxious that it should not step away from its responsibilities for collecting estate duties in case the States marched in and entered the Field in its place. 

 Mr Speaker, there are about 3 main points to which I would like to draw the attention of honourable members in addressing myself to this Bill. This Bill does not go nearly far enough. We of the Opposition believe that the whole field of taxation is interdependent. Anyone who knows anything about estate duties knows that gift duty is extremely bound up with estate planning. Income tax, gift duties and the taxes raised by the States alt have interdependence and this point should not be overlooked when we are discussing legislation such as this. It is my personal attitude that the time is overdue in Australia when there ought to be a royal commission or some other commission of inquiry in depth as to the interdependence of all these tax fields. 
I do not support the honourable mem  Der  for Cowper in suggesting that the fact that the States may walk in and take over this field of estate duties is one good reason why the Commonwealth should not vacate it. I make that statement because sufficient study in depth of the whole field of taxation has not been done, even in the last 20 years. I think that the committee of inquiry which a leader of my Party sat on back in the late 1930s was the last time that such a review occurred. I do not want honourable members to mention the Commonwealth Committee on Taxation, the Ligertwood Committee, to me because I consider its terms of reference were far too narrow even in those days. Anyone who has had any experience at all in tax practice will know that the way in which an estate is wound up in this country at the moment is midsummer madness. You have to wait, on the one hand, for the Commonwealth to get its share and then for the States to get a slice of the cake before you can determine what the residue will be. In one State there is probate duty; in another it is called something else. In my own State of South Australia it is called a succession duty and it is operated on a different basis. 
I am not a lawyer. I have not had detailed practice in this field but I have been a practitioner in the tax field and have assisted lawyers in attempting to draw together what makes up an estate. It is a saddening experience to see the valuable contributions made and the time taken up by well educated people in Australia in doing this sort of work. It is made more difficult by 2 governments having a bite at the same cherry. I consider that the cost involved is the main element of waste in practice in this field. So I, and my colleagues, I believe, argue very strongly in favour of an inquiry, in depth, into this field. 
I do not propose to leave the question there. I believe there ought to be continuing research in the tax field. I have drawn attention previously in this House to the Canadian Tax Research Foundation. In Canada lawyers and accountants in the tax field, together with members of the business community and people in government, get together in this body, subsidised by government but mainly financed by contributions from the private field, to carry out continuing research into such matters as estate duty. I consider that such a procedure is necessary in order that when a Bill of this nature is presented to the House there will be an informed body of opinion, based on solid research, which will be able to determine whether the legislation is worth while. 
This Bill has been introduced without consideration of its effect on State legislation. It is of an ad hoc nature. I could not support it other than on the grounds that it is a little in the right direction even if it is too late. I gathered from one or two of the speeches made by honourable members opposite that they felt that because the Bill gave some concessions to a particular area of the community we were hopping in and supporting it on an ad hoc basis. That is not so. ft has been recognised, for instance, in the platform of the South 
Australian branch of the Australian Labor Party for a number of years that primary producers are in a special disadvantaged position because of the inflated values of land. One has only to look at the yield being received by most, if not all, in the field of primary production to know that there is a peculiar factor relating to an estate of somebody who was a primary producer. As the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  pointed out during his remarks, this factor is the price of land. 
There are two main reasons for the price of land being inflated above all other prices in the community. The first is the fact that the Government, through the Income Tax Assessment Act, particularly in sections 75 and 76, encourages city businessmen - whether they be from Pitt Street, Collins Street, North Terrace, St Georges Terrace or the main streets of the other capital cities - to move in and take tax advantages by owning a plot of farming land. These tax advantages are divided into 2 fields. One concerns the averaging provisions of the Act as they apply to primary producers, and the other concerns those sections which give a straight deduction from taxable income of what is virtually capital expenditure. That is the first reason for the inflation in the prices of land. The second reason is the turmoil that exists in our rural community. As the returns to the primary producers are based on overseas markets and as internal costs are increasing, the only way in which primary producers can overcome the adverse terms of trade which afflict them is to increase their landholding, increase their unit of production to obtain economies of scale. As landholders buy up neighbouring properties when they come on the market the price of land is inflated. 
Both of these areas can be given attention by the Government through the taxation legislation and through other policies affecting primary production. Both should be given attention because, although those who live on the land are perhaps not looking for the same yield as those in other forms of activity - of course farmers do buy a way of life, and a very pleasant way of life at that - on the present cost of land their yields are well below what they ought to be. 
The final point 1 make is that the Bill is not being opposed by my Party, except that we wish to amend it because of the factors I have mentioned. We recognise that the price of land for primary production is inflated. The concession to be given will do little more than overcome the effect of inflation and give recognition in Commonwealth legislation to the particular disadvantage experienced by the primary producers. 
1  am pleased to support the second reading of this Bill. I should like to record a few thoughts about it. The Parliamentary Draftsman is, as we have heard from other honourable members tonight, one of the most important men in the country. Unfortunately, outside this House, very few people realise his importance. In many cases he is virtually the sole architect of legislation. The public can be put to much trouble and expense by legislation without ever realising that the trouble and expense have come about, not through Parliament, not through the Minister and not through the Department, but through a lack of skill and knowledge on the part of the Parliamentary Draftsman or through some strange notion that he may have entertained. I have heard it suggested that the Parliamentary Draftsman is far more important than a judge who, after all, decides particular cases only on the law as it stands. The Parliamentary Draftsman is in substance in a position to alter the law. lt is therefore vital that he be a person of great skill and integrity. 
There is a feature of the Parliamentary Draftsman's job which is worth mentioning, namely, that while he must be a loyal servant of the Government of the day he must also have such a personality that he can give disinterested assistance - I hope in future as possibly in the past, although as a new member I cannot attest to this - to back bench members. Such assistance is necessary so that, for example, a Bill is not amended inexpertly. I am hopeful that the forms of this House will change to the extent that the role of the back bencher, as I said in my maiden speech, will become more meaningful and so that we shall have an even closer co-operation between the Parliamentary Draftsman and the back benchers. 
Undoubtedly the skill of a Parliamentary Draftsman is a special one. I quote a legal friend of mine who said: 'It is a curious thing that every lawyer thinks that he can draft, in much the same way as every woman thinks that she can cook.' Indeed many people other than lawyers, as has been my experience, think that they are pretty good draftsmen. In fact few people have the necessary ability or skill to draft legislation. All this means is that the job must be attractive in both status and remuneration. This is the result which we hope will flow from the Bill. I have learned, when applying myself to the clauses of the Bill, that one or two equivalent State positions are better remunerated than those of draftsmen of the Commonwealth Parliament. I have not been able to prove this but I understand it to be a fact. I would like the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes),  when he closes the second reading debate, to apply himself to two comments that I make on two separate clauses. I note that the effect of clause 9 is that Parliamentary Counsel shall not engage in practice as a barrister or solicitor or engage in paid employment outside the duties of his office. I would like to hear the view of the Attorney-General on the proposition that this could lead to difficulties. 
The Parliamentary Draftsman of South Australia has often been used for miscellaneous government jobs and he has been very valuable, for example, in dealing with teachers' salaries and workers' compensation. Offer his experience in outside fields can be helpful to him in his drafting function. I mention one eminent draftsman of the South Australian Parliament,  Sir Edgar  Bean, who periodically sat as a magistrate. I mention another personal friend of mine, an ex-draftsman, who used to prosecute. I would like to place the emphasis on the fact that the Draftsman should be employed on government business. I realise that Victoria has had its problems recently when somebody engaged in a similar position was engaged also in the private sector. Perhaps in many instances the remuneration of the Parliamentary Draftsman could be made even more attractive by his being able to take on appropriate government business of the sort that I have indicated. 
The other clause which occurs to me as being worth mentioning in this context is clause 10. I would like to hear of the Minister's thinking when he arranged for it to be drafted. The clause seems to me to provide unduly restrictive grounds on which a parliamentary counsel can be sacked. I reiterate that I am pleased to support the Bill, and I look forward with interest to noting the amendments which will be moved at the Committee stage. 
I ask  a  question of the Prime Minister. To what extent are stocks and shares being offered to Government Ministers? Secondly, why does the Prime Minister think that these advantages are being offered? Thirdly, does he think that Ministers can maintain a position of independence if they own an equity in any private concern which does business with government? 
Has the Prime Minister noted that negotiations are soon to be reopened concerning the possible entry of the United Kingdom into the European Economic Community? Does he know that there is grave concern in the Australian community at the awareness that 2 of his senior Ministers, namely the Deputy Prime Minister and the present Treasurer, had serious differences concerning Australia's attitude towards earlier negotiations - so much so that the present Treasurer was forced to resign from the Ministry. 
I must record my disappointment, indeed my resentment, at what has happened in relation to this Bill tonight. International liquidity is one of the most important subjects. It relates to the standard of living that we enjoy. It is important for the amount of trade that this nation can secure and, indeed, for the trade that other nations are going to be able to partake in. Trade, as most of us know, affects the standard of living of people in Australia as well as in other countries. Yet this Bill has been brought forward without prior warning. It was not listed on todays programme, and on the actual notice paper it was listed as Order of the day No. 21. It involves a subject that requires a fair amount of study - study that many of us should be undertaking in depth. 
The first document to which we turn in examining a subject like this is, of course, the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  I think I can repeat the sort of criticisms made by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  last night about the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. Although the second reading speech of the Minister is quite adequate concerning the small point of raising the amount to be contributed by Australia to increase international liquidity it is quite inadequate in relation to the understanding of this House of the sort of crises that there have been in international liquidity in recent years. I am sure that most honourable members, even though they may not take an interest in these economic affairs, will be aware that there have been crises in earlier years in respect of the Stg. Fortunately for Britain it has had a government which has got to the root causes of this, and Britain is now enjoying balance of payments surpluses which have put that country in a far different situation from that which it was in when  Mr Wilson  took over. But, of course there have been crises also in France. To the other extent there have been surpluses in Germany where subsequently the Deutschemark has been revalued. That, in itself, has had a tremendously worthwhile effect on the whole international liquidity of the world. These are the sorts of subjects about which this Parliament ought to be served information such as the information which is given in the White Papers that come down in other parliaments. 1 do not pretend to be an expert in this field. It is 12 years since I have had an opportunity to devote time to these affairs. As a new member of this House I should like to have had at least some sort of warning that this Bill was to come before the House. I shall not detain the House any longer. I thought several speakers were listed but I suppose that they were caught in the same way as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and, indeed, the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  admitted they were caught. 
Yes. But the honourable member knows that it is listed as Order of the day No. 21 on the notice paper and it has been elevated from there. I have reason to commend what is happening throughout the world in lifting the reserves. I agree that this sum of $US41m should be contributed so as to make these greater reserves available but at the same time we should have taken the opportunity to look at the whole problem of international liquidity and to ensure that Australia makes its proper contributions in the councils of the world to make sure the world does not proceed on an ad hoc basis from one crisis to another. This contribution to the International Monetary Fund is only one way to overcome these crises when they occur. A lot more work in depth remains to be done in this field. I hope that we will have future opportunities to look at this matter. I hope that when we do we will have before us papers which will give us the necessary information to enable us to study this legislation in the way it should be studied because it is of tremendous importance to the world and ail honourable members should be interested in it. 
I ask a question of the Postmaster-General. How does he justify his criticism of the way in which the Australian Broadcasting Commission has handled its finances in the light of the findings of the 110th Report of the Public Accounts Committee which Report revealed no evidence of a wasteful use of funds by the Commission? 
Is the Prime Minister aware that, among many persons in LiberalCountry Party governments in Australia, the Treasurer of Queensland,  Mr Chalk,  with his family, is showing a profit on new shareholding in Comalco, which shares were traded on the official market yesterday, of nearly one half of the amount that this country is giving the victims of the earthquake disaster in Peru? In view of this and of the more recent information concerning the extent of the disaster in Peru will he give this House the assurance that a more reasonable gift than $15,000 will be made to the Government and people of Peru? 
I support this motion for the reduction of the quorum for much the same reasons as the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  has decided to oppose it. I think that in discussing any one of these Standing Orders it is only right that we should set the background, the context, in which we are making our decisions. That context must be the role in which we see ourselves as parliamentarians and the functions, as we see them, of this House. I want to discuss this matter in such a way and to mention that I think there are three or four aims that we should be achieving. One of them is that our activities should be not only more meaningful in arriving at better decisions but more meaningful so that the people may understand what we are doing and why we are trying to improve the methods by which we operate. 
I am one who believes that we have to bring our forms much more up to date than is suggested in the proposed amendment to the Standing Orders. Phrases such as 'participatory democracy' are being used in the community. These phrases are important and it behoves us all to think about them very clearly. In this context, of course, we have to think in terms of building up the committee system. The honourable member for Wills himself has already given notice of an amendment in this area. If we are thinking in terms of a committee system which will enable people outside this Parliament to participate in the decisions we are making we will have to reorder not only the times we sit and the days on which we sit - we took a decision on that last night - but also such matters as what constitutes a quorum in this House. I believe it is an archaic practice, when someone is deliberating in a committee room somewhere else, for a quorum to be called and for that more purposeful activity to be interrupted. I believe that if we reduce the numbers that are required for a quorum this practice will not continue. 
In answer to that interjection I would point out that there would more likely be the number of members required to form a quorum in the House if the number required to form a quorum were reduced. This would eliminate the practice to which I have referred. The honourable member for Wills pointed out some of the things that are needed in this House, such as a knowledge of what is going on in the House, when there is so much work that each one of us must carry out outside the chamber. A case in point is sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 1. of the motion, which was carried without any discussion before the suspension of the sitting for dinner. So much needed to be said about the times for which we sit and why we should have more mornings available for these extra activities I hope we will carry out. But at least I have been given an opportunity now to show that the forms of the House need to be brought up to date so that we can carry out functions which are more meaningful and so that we can be seen to be carrying out those functions. 
I ask a question of the Treasurer on matters arising from the Premiers Conference, ls it a fact that the Commonwealth Grants Commission considered the South Australian case for further assistance on Monday. 3rd August, over 3 weeks ago, and reported to the Commonwealth Government a few days later? How much did the Commission recommend in lieu of the $3m suggested by the Treasury and apparently vetoed by the Prime Minister? When will the Government announce its decision concerning this matter? What are the precise terms of the $1 Om loan made available to the State of Victoria from the Advance to the Treasurer in the 1 969-70 financial year? 
This proposed new mail exchange, like the one it will replace, is in my electorate. I support the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee on Public Works but I have a couple of qualifications which I think should be aired in this House. Firstly, let us look at the benefits deriving from the Committee's report and from the Government's move today. The existing mail exchange is in the central part of the City of Adelaide and there is intolerable congestion at this place. When we look at the Committee's report we find that, if further developments are to lake place on the present site rather than to move elsewhere within the city to the site recommended by the Committee, there would be a cost to the community of $12m over the next 20 years. Therefore no doubt it is wise that the mail exchange should be moved and I am pleased that it is to be moved to a site within the city area. There is no doubt that it is mainly the business community which uses these facilities. The business community needs to be able to deliver bulk postage to a mail exchange such as this and there would be tremendous opposition if the mail exchange was moved outside the city area. It would seem that a suitable site has been chosen. I know that the Committee has done sterling work in examining every avenue. 
The qualifications I mentioned in my opening remarks must also be aired also in this House. I refer first to the parking facilities for those who will work in this mail exchange. Representations were made to the Committee by a number of representatives of workers in the present exchange and of those who will be working in the new exchange. I refer to such people as the Secretary-Treasurer of the South Australian Branch of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association, the Secretary-Treasurer of the South Australian Branch of the Postal Overseers Union, a couple of mail officers from the Adelaide mail exchange, and also, extremely importantly, the City Engineer and Planner of the City of Adelaide. All of them pointed out the inadequacy of the parking arrangements proposed for this building. 
My attitude to parking arrangements in city areas is that we ought to have more adequate public transport rather than build up the social costs of our cities by providing 3, 4 and 5 tiered parking buildings. These parking stations attract more traffic to cities. They create traffic jams and bottlenecks on the inlets and outlets of our great cities. At the moment, until there is more Commonwealth support for public transport arrangements, there is no alternative for people doing shift work, such as officers in a mail exchange, but for them to use their own vehicles. 1 know from my knowledge of the area where this mail exchange is to be located that most of the streets have parking meters. There are difficulties facing workers in the exchange who wish to park anywhere nearby. At the new site they will have less public transport facilities than there are available now at the present exchange at Grenfell Street. I must record my disappointment that the Commonwealth has not done more in this case to see that adequate parking arrangements are provided for those who will be working at this mail exchange. 
In many ways a development such as this new exchange is a drawback for a city. This parcel of land will not be rated and the rest of the community will have to subsidise the facilities being provided. The Commonwealth, through the PostmasterGeneral's Department, will not be paying rates. In addition, parking facilities will not be provided. Streets will be cluttered by those employees fortunate to find somewhere to park their cars and the PostmasterGeneral's Department, or the Public Works Department, will not provide for them. 
There are a couple of other matters I want to mention about the form of this building. I refer first to the noise situation within the building. 1 do not consider that the report of the Public Works Committee fully covers this matter. The second matter relates to representations from the City Planner,  Mr Bubb  supported by the Lord Mayor and the Town  Clerk  of the City of Adelaide, about open spaces around the building. I hope these developments will be forthcoming. I notice that there are plans to buy up more land around this proposed mail exchange. 1 do not consider the present proposition an ideal one but 1 do not oppose it because it certainly is preferable to the location of the mail exchange at present. 1 hope the 3 matters I mentioned - parking, noise within the building and open spaces around the building - will be taken into consideration when there are future developments at this site. 
One or two prominent people both inside and outside this Parliament have gone on record lately as saying in effect that the annual Budget and the debate which follows it are overrated. They say that both are given more prominence than they deserve. In spite of some of the speeches that we have heard from honourable members on the Government side of the House, I do not subscribe to that point of view. I believe that this is a very important time of stocktaking for the nation. Firstly we receive the necessary information to assess the performance of the nation and thus of the Government in the previous financial year. Secondly, we are given the Government's picture of what it hopes the nation will achieve in the current financial year. The plans are made. Those plans are so significant that they affect the level of economic activity of the country and the social welfare of each of its citizens, and thus the lives of each one of us who lives here. 
On either of these counts, whether we are looking at the performance of the past year or studying the plans for this financial year, the Government in my view stands condemned. It is now 10 days since the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  delivered his Budget Speech, together with many of the accounts and statistics in the form of the numerous and various Budget papers. No oratory or attempted oratory is required from me to persuade the people that this is a Budget of injustice and inequity, compounding and perpetuating the injustices and inequities which already exist in this so-called lucky country. The people already know this as we, their representatives on this side of the House, sensed in our visits home last week-end. Our journalists know it and this has been their message beamed to us by means of the various media in the intervening period. I am not one of those who agrees with the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  that the Press does not normally give a pretty fair picture of what is going on in this country. Even Government back bench members - the honourable member for La Trobe is one of them - and some Ministers believe that this has been a bad Budget. They are showing their feelings in their actions and speeches. 
So we return, if ever we had an absence from it, to a period of childish LiberalCountry Party reactions or over reactions on the theme of law and order - a variance on the theme of: 'We can't beat them on sound arguments about this Budget so let us kick the Communist can and put fear into the minds of the people'. This has been the Government's despicable retort to the people's reaction to this Budget. Honourable members opposite say that they cannot defend the Budget. They say: 'We have made another shocking error, bringing unnecessary hardship to many of the residents of this country. Let us create even more divisiveness than we have at the present time' - heaven knows we have plenty of it - 'as a smokescreen from the troubles we are in'. This is the background at this Budget time 1970  -  this occasion when it is my first opportunity to participate in a Budget debate in this chamber. 
Three days ago my Leader  (Mr Whitlam)  opened for the Opposition by moving an amendment. I would like once more to draw attention to the amendment because I do not think we have had it before us for some time. The amendment reads as follows: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: this House condemns this deceptive and negative Budget because it fails to meet the real needs of the Australian people, especially with respect to (a) standards of social service and war pensioners, (b) assistance to school, hospital and urban authorities and (c) restructuring of stricken primary industries and because it introduces and increases taxes and charges of a regressive and inequitable nature'. 
I wholeheartedly support that amendment and the stated intention of my Party to vote against the Appropriation Bills if the amendment is defeated. I cannot hope to examine the wide spectrum of matters covered by the Leader of the Opposition in his masterful speech which has been very well received. I want to emphasise and enlarge on some of the matters he raised and, I hope, break some new ground. All the time it is essential to commit to our minds that the purpose of our work is to improve the well being of our people - to lift their material standards and, we hope, to create the proper society for the benefit of intellectual, spiritual and other pursuits. 
The Budget is, of course, mainly concerned with material standards. In this context, the principles upon which it should be based are, firstly, planning in order to maximise the growth of our gross national product - our national cake as it is sometimes called - and, secondly, a fair, equitable and just distribution of that national cake. On both these counts this Budget fails miserably. This was a time to announce measures at least to give the Government the tools to carry out the essential planning. We have a shockingly poor growth performance in this country. The most recent figures available displaying the annual increase in real gross national product per head of population over a 10-year period show that in Japan it was 10.1%, in Italy 5.3%, in West Germany 4.7%, in the Netherlands 4.1%, in Austria 3.9%, in France 3.9%, in Belgium 3.8%, in the United States of America 3.2%, in Australia 2.8% and in the United Kingdom 2.7%. Australia is ninth out of those 10 countries. Our country's growth per head was 28% of Japan's growth per head. 
This is a time for bold action. We need bold planning to answer the challenge for Japan and of the other countries which have a greater growth rate than Australia. We should at the very least have a ministry of economic planning to apply longterm, flexible plans to our economy, as they have been applied, for instance, to Japan's. Unquestionably, the stupendous expansion of the Japanese economy would not have been possible without their national plans. But their experience, apparently, evokes no interest with this Government. It seems to remain the exclusive domain for occasional forays by Australian academics on sabbatical leave. Incidentally, in case there are terrible satanic concepts of Socialism being built up in the ignorant and emotional attitudes of some, may I point out that the success of Japanese planning is probably best borne out by its influence on private business, on the decisions of private business men. Whereas in the early 1960s about 60% of large companies were using the Japanese Government's plans as guidelines for their long range plans, by the late 1960s more than 80% were using them. 
But there is another successful byproduct of this policy of economic planning which must be mentioned - and one that without doubt has relevance in Australia - and that is that these long range plans have been responsible for forcing the widely divergent views of the key policy ministries into consistent national aims. Australia is not. apparently, unique in having powerful policy making departments pulling in different directions, frequently at the expense of overall national consideration. Here is one way of overcoming the problem in the interests of growth and a better standard of living for us all. 
Let me quote from an article  Mr Walter  Kommer, a former Managing Editor of the Australian', wrote shortly after returning from Japan, admittedly a couple of years ago. 
The longer we defer action to set up our own scale of long-term national objectives the more traumatic will be the impact of Japan on our lives. . . . Since the Government does not understand the full implications of the new Japan it shows - not unexpectedly, little concern - so we will continue to fritter away our resources instead of concentrating our national effort in these areas where we enjoy obvious comparative advantages. Treasury will continue to draft short-term economic policies. The States will continue to make investment decisions that run completely counter to national economic efficiency, and our policy of protection will continue to be generally directed to the least efficient areas in our economy instead of where we have a chance of making a show. 
These thoughts are as relevant today as they were 2 years ago, and perhaps more so. We do not have to look only to Japan for an example of a more successful approach to these affairs. We can look to 
Sweden, France, and even our Anzac partner, New Zealand. With the shocking waste that is going on in our community today, with the inadequate and inept attempts to control inflation that we are experiencing under this Liberal-Country Party rule, with the tragic hardships being caused by the rise in costs to so many people who derive their incomes from primary industry, from pensions or from other fixed incomes, is it not time for us to institute a new approach such as I have outlined - a Labor solution? 
This is one of the things the Leader of the Opposition was saying when he talked about the basic misallocation of resources and the futility of the present blunt instruments of monetary policies, of high interest rates, of stop and go. We know how much these things mean to housing and the cost of mortgages. To follow the Leader of the Opposition last Tuesday night, the Government resurrected, temporarily any way, from his position of political oblivion, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  He is the man who said that he would not under any circumstances serve in a Gorton government. Yet he was their trump card - for whatever reason, most of us merely have to guess. In a very poor performance he led off by attacking Canada in general and the principles of Professor Galbraith in particular.  His  ignorance of this subject - or was it expediency for political ends - would have been laughable if it did not have serious implications. 
The matter is serious, because Galbraith is one person who puts forward a credible theory which should be followed in today's situation and pursued vigorously in order to break the present vicious circle of rises in prices, followed by rises in costs, followed by rises in prices, and so on. If John Maynard Keynes had written his general theory by the late 1920's instead of the late 1930's a Treasurer like Theodore would have been allowed to pursue the policies that he was prevented from pursuing. If these policies of deficit financing had been initiated around the world then the great depression, the tragic underemployment of men and resources, would not have been experienced - at least with the same intensity as was experienced in the 1930s. 
Today we have a theory, which is a Galbraithian theory, to break the present economic inflationary malaise. Unfortunately, we do not have a Labor Treasurer - at the present time, anyway - to put these policies into effect. I should like to give a brief outline of these theories because they are extremely important. Keynesian economic philosophy in the areas of economic policy rests on the dependence of monetary and fiscal, or budgetery, policies to reduce aggregate demand in order to stop inflation, and activate demand in order to pull the economy out of a recessionary phase. Monetary policy operates on the availability of credit while fiscal policy operates firstly on disposable incomes - incomes which are left in people's pockets to spend - and secondly on the relative role of government expenditures. More recently, Galbraith and some others have contended that monetary policy has contributed to rather than modified postwar economic problems. The new school of thought points out that monetary policy is not selective in its impact and causes market distortions and even social inequities. I mentioned earlier the effect of interest rates on housing as an example of this. The monetary authorities' role is reduced to very short-term financial manipulations which ensure orderly securities markets and an adequate growth in the money supply. 
Galbraith argues that Budget policies are similarly non-selective - at least as they are practised. Surely we are seeing an example of that in this Budget. They are capable of selection, but in the areas of resource allocation and the setting of appropriate social and welfare priorities these budgetary policies have been remiss. However, it is true that budgetry policies have more relevance to inflationary control than do monetary policies. It would not be correct to say that Keynes's principles are being discarded for Galbraith's. At certain stages of the business cycle, under certain conditions, in terms of community problems, balance of payment situations and so on, one mixture might work better than another. The best that can be said at this stage is that Galbraith adds another tool to the kit of economic policy makers. I contend that that tool is necessary in Australia now. 
I want to have a further look, for the record, at Galbraith's arguments.  His  first point, which he made quite clear, is close to the hearts of all of us. He said that high employment is necessary for sustained economic growth since low output and idle capacity are a disincentive to investment. He said also that no policy of price stabilisation has any chance of permanent success if it argues that there must be deliberately manufactured and continuing unemployment. Professor Galbraith argues that in the United States and in Australia, at high employment, prices are unstable - and we have seen this - because of a defect in the economic machine, particularly in one sector. This sector is the one in which firms are very large and control by them over prices is substantial; there is opportunity for large discretionary increases in prices whenever demand is favourable. Is not this our situation with Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd? That company increases the price of its steel without, any restraint or leadership from the Government. 
Galbraith said that there is, furthermore, a powerful incentive to exploit this price discretion when wages are raised, particularly when we have a monopoly situation. So long as demand is at or near full employment limits, prices and wages will react on each other in a steady upward spiral in industries characterised by strong firms and strong unions. Inflation has been characterised by increases, particularly in the prices of steel, steel products, machinery, cars, paper, rubber and so on in this country. The budgetary and monetary policies do not deal with these problems of inflation appropriately because their impact is too general, because they attempt to reduce aggregate demand and depend on a reduction of employment levels to achieve an easing of aggregate demand. Consequently, they are quite unacceptable to honourable members on this side of the House. Although inflationary tendencies tend to find their outlet in concentrated industries, the solution does not lie in breaking up such industries because of structural and political problems that such action would raise. 
So the one course of action is for some form of public intervention in that part of the economy where full employment or an approach to full employment means inflationary price and wage increases. Among the principles governing this intervention should be that it should be limited to the concentrated sector; the machinery for intervention should be simple and its aim should be restraint, not rigid price and wage fixing; the effort to achieve stability should, if at all possible, be carried out in a conciliatory spirit. Almost any useful procedure will require an official finding each year of the wage advance that would be generally consistent with stable prices. This does not presuppose that the starting point does give a fair breakdown between labour and capital of the rewards of their enterprise. The whole of the Galbrathian theory rests on a partnership between labour, industry and government, in these concentrated sectors in particular, promoted by government. 
I believe that is entirely consistent with what is being suggested by  Mr Bob  Hawke and the Australian Council of Trade Unions, as witnessed by  Mr Hawke's  statesmanlike message to the National Productivity Council reported in today's newspapers. Here we have something positive being offered to help our country break out of the present straitjacket of ever increasing costs, yet wc find it being vilified by the honourable member for Lilley and his friends. The policy only recently has been applied in Canada and yet we find him quoting Canada's unemployment figure and that country's standard of social services in a worthless attempt  to  debunk the Galbraithian theory. Concerning unemployment, he did not mention the particular regional problems of Canada which distort the picture. For instance, there is Canada's climate and the nature of some of its industries which create much seasonal unemployment. There is a lack of mobility of labour. Thousands of French speaking people in Quebec refuse to move from their province even though the unemployment problem is particularly acute there. The honourable member for Lilley did not tell us that in the field of social services we cannot compare the performance of our Federal Government with that of the Canadian Government because Canada's provincial governments have much more responsibility in this field than do our State governments. 
Concerning poverty, his argument falls down when note is taken of the quite marked difference in the definition of poverty between Canada and Australia. The Australian definition, in Professor 
Henderson's survey in Melbourne, is based on an income insufficient for a quite frugal existence whereas the Canadian definition is based on an income which is insufficient for something more than a frugal existence. Indeed, this point illustrates something of the difference in attitudes to poverty in the 2 countries. Canadian thinking on poverty is in terms of a relative lack of affluence rather than a lack of the necessaries for a quite frugal existence. The further point that can be made on this is that the relatively generous definition of poverty in Canada has been made by a public body, a public body, moreover, which has argued also for a programme to raise the poor in Canada to the relatively generous basic income level contained in its poverty definition, or rather to its cut-off point. It should be noted also that a committee of the Canadian Senate is currently holding an inquiry into the problem of poverty. This situation compares with the Australian situation in which there is no apparent specific interest in poverty on the part of public bodies and in which there has been no public inquiry into the poverty problem. So much for the attempted debunking of Canada, of Galbraithian theory and of the masterful speech of the Leader of the Opposition in this Budget debate by the Liberal-Country Party's trump card, the honourable member for Lilley. 1 am particularly concerned to see the end of inflation and the end to the use of the present blunt instruments being applied in vain to cure it - and this is not only because of the general effect on pensioners, on those on fixed income, on the lower income groups, and particularly on the young, newly married where there are the expenses of buying a home and of raising a family with only one income coming into the household. May I, while we are discussing the question of raising a family, bring to the attention of the House the fact that item No. 3 on page 13 of the Budget Speech documents, under the heading 'Payment to National Welfare Fund', discloses a drop of $20,143,000 in the amount expected to be spent on child endowment during the current year - from an actual expenditure of $220,143,000 in 1969- 70 to an estimated $200m in 1970- 71. Although this is given as an aside, it is an extremely important point which should be bought out in the debate on the Estimates. 
I am especially concerned about the blunt policies of high interest rates, of a 50c increase on a gallon of wine and of a 21/2% increase in sales tax on motor cars and other consumer durables because of the particular effects on my own State of South Australia. My State manufactures many goods, especially vehicles and home appliances, for the national market and any downturn caused by Commonwealth policies has a greater effect in South Australia than in the rest of Australia. Therefore, if economic policy is based on overall trends and we are to rely only on blunt stop and go policies, as is the policy of the present Liberal-Country Party Government, South Australia will be particularly hard hit. I protest most strongly that we are subjected to this. I have shown that alternative policies are available. If the present policies are to be persisted with for heaven's sake let us have some special Commonwealth Government measures in South Australia to see that once again a tragic waste of men and resources does not take place there. The policies are designed for the rest of Australia, not for us. Why on earth should we suffer? As I asked earlier in my speech in this debate, why should anybody suffer? 
Indeed, instead of having these special measures in recent years, instead of placing more Commonwealth investment in South Australia to offset the generally restrictive Commonwealth policies, the Commonwealth Government has slowed down its capital expenditure in that State. The overall consequence has been that when viewing a table of percentage annual population rises by State it becomes apparent that my State has gone from the top position of 2.86 for the year ended 31st March 1966 to bottom position of 1.76 for the year ended 31st March 1970. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  I know, received a letter from South Australia's Premier, Don Duns tan, at least 6 weeks ago on these matters. Since then our troubles have been compounded by this Budget. We have heard nothing from the Prime Minister. Already Chrysler Australia Ltd has cut its production and General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd is not replacing men who leave it - to mention just two of our large Adelaide employers. 
I have said nothing so far about the shabby treatment my State has received at the Premiers Conference and the Australian Loan Council meeting. In spite of the Treasurer's denial in the answer to a question I put to him last Wednesday on the subject, it is quite clear that the Treasury recommended a far larger figure than my State received. It is now general knowledge that, forced to the Commonwealth Grants Commission, my State will probably fare better than was originally intended. That Grants Commission meeting was on 3rd August, 25 days ago. It is high time that this Government made the extra amount available to ease the State budgetary position in South Australia. 
I did hope to include in my speech the topics of Commonwealth-State financial relations, programme budgeting, a national superannuation scheme and taxation reform. I point out that for 10 years 1 was a taxation consultant andI know that one can shoot holes through the present taxation legislation. I did hope to include all these things in my contribution this afternoon, but recently we have indicated that we will cut down on the time of our speeches. I want to stay true to the spirit of that decision.I do not have long to go, so in conclusion I repeat that this Government must be condemned for its wasteful management of our resources and for the imposts and unnecessary hardships it has imposed on our people. I shall be supporting the Opposition amendment and voting against all the Budget appropriation Bills with a great deal of heart  and  with the hope that the Australian Labor Party will soon be governing Australia. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Why were Commonwealth Post-graduate students awards not included among those matters to be reported upon by  Mr Justice  Eggleston when he recently considered academic salaries in universities. 
Is it a fact that the last adjustments to these awards at the end of the 1967-68 year did not increase the remuneration for most postgraduate students because the supplementary grants were at the same time discontinued. 
When were the previous adjustments made to the awards and what has been the percentage rise in wages following national wage decisions since that time, 
When will the next adjustments to the awards be made to cope with increases in the cost of living, 
Will the Government arrange for automatic adjustments of the awards following national wage case decisions. 

 - Mr Speaker, this is an extraordinary situation. 
Motion (by  Mr Sneddon)  put: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
I am sorry to delay the House but the amendment as I read it is as follows: 
Provided that if it appears on the report by the tellers of a division of the House that one-third of the whole number of members is not present . . . 
If one-third is not present it seems to me that two-thirds must be present. This is not the intention of the honourable member for Wills nor is it my intention. 1 want to arrive at wording which will ensure that at least one-third of the members are present when it comes to voting on a measure. 
The people of Australia are not getting the value that they should be getting from the money spent on this Parliament. This is because not enough time and effort are being put into having a good look at the institution and bringing it up to date in this ever changing world. Therefore 1 for one am taking the opportunity in this debate on the estimates for the Parliament to put forward a few ideas. First, let me give my ideas on the functions of back benchers such as myself. Incidentally, although a new member, I am not reluctant to launch forth on this subject. Sometimes a fresh mind looking at a subject such as this is more objective and realistic than is someone who has lived with the system for a long time. The first function of a member I would describe as the social work or representational function. This is looking after the needs of the individual citizen, acting as an ombudsman. The creation of an ombudsman by a State government would not take this function away from us. Our citizens get to know us and they expect us to deal with their problems and not to sidekick them to someone else. This, in my view, is the way it should be, with some qualifications which ( shall mention in a moment. 
The number and type of these social work or representational jobs we get depend on the type of one's electorate and the success with which one does these jobs. 1 believe that those of us who represent city, suburban or large country town electorates get far more of this type of work than those whose electorates are rural. Because of the lack of distances we are more available. We get the many Department of Social Services pension applications - the headaches of the means test. We also get the acute housing problems. Honourable members will know well that our electors are not conversant with the distinctions between the responsibilities of the Commonwealth, Stale and local government authorities. This is not surprising with the complicated federal system we suffer from. This applies in particular to new settlers. I had a number of complaints over the weekend about the increase in council rates. I expect these complaints and I pass them on to the local ward councillors, but the complainants have to be told that council rates have nothing to do with a Federal politician. 
The o her factor that determines, surely, the number of social work and representational jobs we get is the income level of our electors. If one represents a lower income area one gets far more work than if one represents a higher income area. This is because people with more money have their own lawyers and accountants to turn to. It is also because migrants and citizens who have not had the advantages of a better education have more problems. 

 Mr Chairman, 1 have mentioned all this because with an electorate like mine, anyway, the volume of work is great. In fact, this function alone could be a full time job if one let it be so. I have the advantages and the training of a professional life before coming into this job, with such additional aids as dictating machines and travelling notebooks to help ease the burden - aids whose cost naturally has come from my own pocket and which are not possessed by all members. My fulltime secretarystenographer and I have been processing over 100 individual letters, phone calls or private visits to us a week, each of which requires this personal social work or representational attention. By the time the letter has been read, or the telephone call taken, or the interview completed, by the time the necessary research has been done on the particular problem and the letter written to, say, a Minister or a form completed - surely it is not unreasonable to allocate an average of at least 20 minutes to each job. This is about 34 hours a week. 
The danger about this is the neglect of the other important functions. How do we represent people unless we get out among them, listen to them as well as talk to them in order to receive their reactions? The social work and representational work that I have mentioned do help us to know our people and their problems. But it is by no means sufficient. We must put time aside to visit people in groups and individually. This is the second function. 
The third function - research - is a sadly neglected one, as is the fourth, the parliamentary function; that is, what we do in this Parliament House when it sits. These are neglected because of the calls of the electorate. When I am away from Adelaideand I know that I am not on my own in this - the electorate work must be carried out over the telephone. Letters must be read to me. messages given and replies dictated - all over the telephone from Canberra to Adelaide. Fifty-five of the 59 Labor members in this House - that is all except the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  the Opposition Whip, the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  and the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  - 'have 4 stenographers between them while they are in this Parliament House. We can hardly burden them with our electorate work. 
So, as I have said, the research on our speeches, the seeking of solutions to the great problems - and I could mention Commonwealth-State relations, the improved Government performance that is needed, and the crisis in the countryside - and all the necessary study and reading which go with these functions and with these problems are relatively neglected. Is it any wonder that the people of Australia are not getting value for the money spent on this Parliament? 
Well, what are the solutions? The first is that we should not downgrade ourselves. We are not highly rated in the community because we have not rated ourselves very highly. We just have not given ourselves the facilities to do this job properly. A United States senator or congressman has, on average, I believe, about 8 on his staff. We do not need that many, but we certainly need more than I stenographer home in our electorates, if we are to do this job properly. The difference between the facilities given to a Minister and a backbencher in Australia are enormous. Each one of us certainly needs a research worker cum social worker if our standards arc to improve. This would be an excellent job for a young graduate for a few years. 
The experience for the person chosen would be invaluable. The lift in the standards in this place also should be incalculable. 
The next solution is to improve our process of decision making. It is not just good enough to be content with the ways of the past. We are dealing with an increasingly educated community. Not only do our people want us to be better informed, to research and prepare our work better and to have the facilities to do this, but also they want to see that the results of that improved work are resting somewhere where they matter. At the moment, even those of us who get this far into Parliament often question the value of getting up and making a speech in this place. That cynicism which rests in us is compounded in the community in general. This is a real danger in our society. Our form of parliamentary democracy, with all its faults and with all the room there is for improvements, is the best system devised so far for ruling a nation. It is easy to be critical, to be destructive, and to find in the end that the baby has been thrown out with the bathwater. Therefore, it is necessary for each one of us to bring about the improvements, to recognise that change is necessary in an ever-changing world and then to be able to challenge the critics of the system to be more constructive. At the present time, we are on the defensive. We are hesitant because we know some of what is said about this institution is true. 
So far, I have mentioned only the participation of more people in this House of Representatives and, indeed, the Senate in decision-making. But this also applies to citizens in the community. Let us involve more of them in the process, too, in order to arrive at better solutions and in order to derive more respect for this place. The key to achieving both these aims lies in the recommendations of  Mr Speaker  and the Standing Orders Committee to set up a series of standing committees in this House. Rumour has it that those recommendations brought to the House by the Honourable member for Wilis  (Mr Bryant)  are not going to receive the support of the Government; that, in fact, the free vote of Government members is being withdrawn. The sop will be one or two more select committees which are in my view no substitute. I cannot go into all the arguments now. Perhaps there will be an opportunity later. But 1 do wish to record in the strongest possible way my view that we are taking a retrograde step and making a damaging decision if we do not grasp this opportunity to improve our methods and to increase our standing in the community. 
Before leaving the subject of committees, briefly I wish to mention that I see no reason why there should be a fee for those members attending a committee. It should be the normal function of a parliamentarian. There should merely be an expense allowance for those occasions when committees meet at a place away from one's home base and when one is not covered already by a parliamentary allowance. Incidentally, as Vice-Chairman of the Joint Committee on Public Accounts. I, say that this should apply to existing committees. But this is not to say that we do ourselves any justice in this place in the matter of our remuneration, tt is a ridiculous situation to spend all day, as I did yesterday, in a meeting of the Public Accounts Committee, asking on behalf of the people of this country senior public servants to account for their stewardship, only to realise that each one of the 30 or 40 who came before us probably was being paid more than his masters, the parliamentary representatives on the Committee. I have gone on record already in my maiden speech to the effect that we should not be setting our own remuneration but that we should decide where we should be in relation to Commonwealth public servants and tie our salaries and expenses to that level accordingly. 

 Mr Chairman, there are 2 final points that 1 wish to make briefly. The first is that so many of these improvements that I have mentioned cannot be instituted until we have a new Parliament House. There just is not room for housing a satisfactory committee system here. There just is not room for us to bring here a research worker cum social worker - that personal assistant whom I mentioned earlier - and there just is not room to improve the legislative research services provided by the Parliamentary Library. Let us get on with the task of building a new parliament house- on Capital Hill, where it ought to be - and of converting this existing building into a conference centre. 
The last point concerns the private interest of members and particularly of Ministers. I give notice that I intend to raise this subject again. The Comalco new issue was a shameful episode in the public life of this country. From what I have been told, the Ministry in this Parliament is not blameless. For the sake of this parliamentary institution and the respect in which it should be held, we must have some clear guidelines in this matter of the interests of Ministers and of members. I shall be agitating until this is so. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable ,be  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
Although the hour is late, I want to raise a matter that I have not had an opportunity to bring to the attention of the House previously. It is a matter of importance not merely to my electorate of Adelaide but to the whole of my State, South Australia, and, I believe, to Australia in general. I refer to the announcement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  at question time in this House the week before last, that the Commonwealth Grants Commission had recommended an initial grant of $5m to my State and, if I may say so facetiously, the Government had graciously agreed to this recommendation. This is just one more episode in what I call the tragic drama which is known as Commonwealth-State financial relations. 
We are conducting important affairs of this country in a chaotic way, and it is my intention to bring this matter to the attention of the House, even at late hours such as this, on every possible occasion. Whilst this Liberal-Country PartyDemocratic Labor Party coalition is going from one crisis to another, whilst we move from one seemingly inevitable ad hoc decision to another, the people of Australia are suffering. No attempt is being made to assess their true priorities, and their real needs are suffering. 
The previous significant episode in this drama of Commonwealth-State relations was the last Premiers' Conference and Loan Council meeting which took place in this chamber on 25th and 26th June. This was an important occasion - or rather it should have been. It was the occasion for renegotiating the financial agreement for the next 5 years. The House will remember that there had been a special meeting of the Premiers earlier in the year to decide what should be their approach. There had been much speculation in the media as to whether the income taxing powers should be returned to the States or whether wc should adopt something approaching the Canadian formula. Now was the time to take a major step in clearing up this mess, to solve this wrangle, to do away with or to put a stop to what has become a charade - the grandstanding which takes place at regular intervals and which goes by the name of Premiers' Conferences and Loan Council meetings. 
What we got at the last charade was little more than we got at the previous ones. The headlines of the newspapers tell the story. If I may, 1 will quote from my own State's 'Adelaide Advertiser', which is typical of the story throughout Australia. It carried the following headlines: 'Oliver Twist South Australia Gets Lousy Deal'; Hard Way to Get Money'; 'Dunstan Lashes at Prime Minister's Bias'; 'Receipts Tax Assured'; 'Canberra's Final "No" to States';  Mr Hall  is Sorry at South Australia's Slice', and so it goes on. 1 have to ask the question: Do we have to go on putting up with this? Is this the best we can do for the Australian people? 1 just do not believe that al] of this charading is necessary, and if the Government charged with the task of governing this country at the present time can do no better it is up to honourable members on both sides of this House to goad it into doing so. If this is what happens in a most important year when that financial agreement is being renegotiated, then what on earth can we expect in following years? What hope can we offer the Australian people that these important affairs of State, the provision of the necessary funds for the States to discharge their responsibilities, will be decided on a more rational basis in future years? 
Before turning to what I consider should be done in place of the charade I want to highlight one of the disgraceful by-products of the last meeting which gave rise to the Commonwealth Grants Commission announcement in the week before last. I am, of course, referring to the treatment of my own State, South Australia. Having attempted to buy off the demands of the States - honourable members will remember the increase in the base grant and the betterment factor, the grants to meet debt charges and the interest free capital grants to reduce the crippling State debts, all of this in addition to the extra money vitally needed to balance State Budgets which would have been forthcoming anyway from the old formula - having fatuously attempted to solve the basic problem of Commonwealth State relations merely by offering more money, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and his Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  merely found the old deep rooted problems still existing and the State Premiers still asking for more money. What happened at this stage? Queensland deservedly got $2m each year for the 5 years added to its base grant. Victoria and New South Wales also got, with justification, an extra $2 per head of population to help those States with their problems. In addition,  Sir Henry  Bolte received an ex gratia payment of $10m in the old financial year as a political gesture to help reduce an incompetently huge 1969- 70 deficit in that State. Western Australia was able to continue to receive at least part of its special grant which it had been enjoying since it left the category of claimant State. Tasmania, of course, continued to be a claimant State and so did not have to do much grandstanding nor did it have a lot to worry about. 
In relation to South Australia, Kenneth Davidson in an article in the 'Australian' stated: 
Ti the Prime Minister did not exactly tell Premier Dunstan to go to hell, he at least told him to go to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
This polite piece of advice was tendered in the context of what is common knowledge, namely, that the Treasury had recommended that South Australia should receive up to $3m. This was a gratuitous insult to my State and is bitterly resented. It is now also common knowledge that the bluff was called. South Australia did go to the Commonwealth Grants Commission on 3rd August. After thinking about the Commission's recommendations for almost 4 weeks this Liberal-Country Party Government had to eat humble pie and reluctantly agree to make available not $3m but $5m. I hasten to add that this is only an interim amount. Every precedent tells us that when the accounts of the State for the year 1970-71 are examined by the Grants Commission in the following year the amount will be increased. So from a position where the Prime Minister told Premier Dunstan in June that he did not think that my State was at any disability, the injustice has now been partly redressed and it has cost the Government at least another $2m to do so. This $2m, I am glad to say, has been put to good use in the State budget which was brought down almost 2 weeks ago in the South Australian Parliament by my State Labor colleagues. 1 consider that this ignoble shocking episode should be recorded in this House as one of the many low water marks in this chaotic state of CommonwealthState financial relations. Honourable members know that I have not just done this for political reasons. The Adelaide Press has probably gone to bed and will be full of other things such as escaped convicts. 
I have raised this subject to galvanise opinion on both sides of this House to the point of view that the people of Australia deserve better than they are getting in this as in so many other spheres. Improvements in this area can best be carried out only if both major political parties will do something about agreeing on a solution. The State politicians also are vital ingredients in the solution - Labor politicians as well as Liberal ones. We do have a State Labor Government in South Australia and soon there will be more Labor governments. I know that eventually it is only this Parliament which can bring about fundamental changes and that a successful referendum result is also vital. But surely now is the time to start on this campaign. Is it not necessary to arrive at a consensus solution to these great problems? Many of the differences are emotional only. Most people would agree that broad policy guidelines must be laid down in this Parliament, but that the closer the administration of these problems is to the people the better it is for the people. We had great conventions at the turn of the century. From diametrically opposed positions our forefathers found a consensus. Although the conventions are not necessary for the law-making process today, would they not be decidedly valuable in the process of arriving at a common position, in educating public opinion to a sensible point of view? The needs of the people are great. The present system is failing them. It is not just a matter of finance. The breakdown in the functions between the Commonwealth and the States is out of date and ridiculous. For goodness sake let us start to improve the situation by getting together and doing something positive about a solution. 
I, too, present from certain citizens of South Australia, mainly from my own electorate, the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of South Australia respectfully showeth: 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the Average Weekly Male Earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with A.C.T.U. policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition: so that our citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your' petitioners as in duty bound will' ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I want to tell this House about Charles Martin who is. as I believe it, the only person at the moment serving a 2-year sentence in Yatala Prison- 
That the business of the day be called on. 
-Does the Treasurer recall saying in his Budget Speech on 18th August, less than 2 months ago, that his proposals aimed to produce 'a balanced 
Budget, a Budget shaped to the requirements of ... an economy still threatened by disruptive inflation'? Did not indeed the Budget estimates arrive at a small surplus of$4m? How does he reconcile this policy and also the Government's inability to find an extra deserving amount for the pensioners of this nation with the newly announced policy of finding overnight an extra $50m for the States, as announced after last Thursday's Premiers Conference? 
We are debating a Bill for an Act to amend the law relating to income tax in respect of convertible notes. The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  merely had to fill in the 2 or 3 minutes which were still due to him. I listened to his speech last night with a great deal of interest to see whether he could take up what had gone by default in the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  namely, arguments in favour of supporting the Bill. I hope I am being reasonably charitable to the honourable member when I say that he did a very workmanlike job in repeating the Treas urer's second reading speech and outlining the Bill without telling us why the Bill is before the House. In his concluding remarks he has attempted to throw the onus back onto this side of the House to prove why we are opposing the Bill. My argument is that the onus is on the Government to tell us what are the pressures that are forcing it to bring this Bill before the House. 
I will first of all attempt to explain what are convertible notes, to make sure we are talking on the same subject. As far as I am concerned, they are a hybrid - a combination - of unsecured notes on the one hand and equity capital on the other hand. What is achieved by this capital instrument can be achieved by unsecured notes and equity capital issued separately in the market. This capital market instrument, 1 concede, is available elsewhere in the world in developed money markets, but certainly not, as 1 understand it, in the form that the Government is proposing in this amendment to the Income Tax Assessment Act. The other point that I would like to make about convertible notes is that there is nothing to stop them being issued in this country at the present time. All that we are debating at the moment is whether the interest which is payable by the companies to the holders of these convertible notes should be a taxation deduction before primary tax is applied to the taxable income of companies. So there is nothing prohibiting convertible notes being issued. 
The question is whether the Government should encourage the issue of convertible notes by allowing taxation deductions for the interest paid to the holders of them. I want to elaborate on the points made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  the shadow Treasurer, last night and explain that there are 3 main reasons why the Opposition is opposing the Bill at the present time. The first is because we think there ought to be better arguments proposed by the Government in support of this Bill than we have been able to hear from the Government or find out from Government supporters and other people knowledgeable in this sphere. We think there ought to be better arguments put forward before we allow the erosion of the tax base, which erosion will take place if the interest payable on convertible notes is an allowable deduction. 
I repeat that the case has gone so far by default. I have pointed to the speech of the Treasurer. 1 have pointed to the speech of the honourable member for Curtin. I invite anybody to look at those speeches and tell us who is going to use these convertible notes. It is my knowledge of the capital market that certainly the large companies in this country will not want to use them. When I turn to appropriate literature - J refer to such magazines as 'Taxation in Australia', the monthly magazine of the Taxation Institute of Australia, and the financial Press  -  I find that there is some speculation. Perhaps the medium sized or smaller companies in our community will want to use these convertible notes, but nowhere that I have been able to see has anybody written that convertible notes in the form being put forward by the Government at the present time will be used by them 
Let me refer to the article in 'Taxation in Australia' by  Mr Sam  Denton, a chartered accountant of my own State, or to an article which I think appeared in the Australian Financial Review, a year ago when the possibility of this Bill was first intimated. The article arose from a speech made to the Institute of Directors by another person known to rae,  Mr Michael  Gleeson White of the firm of Ord, Minnett, which is a firm of stockbrokers and which is also in a reasonably large way in the underwriting field. In every case where we have been able to find the written word on this subject of convertible notes nobody has justified the limitations imposed on them by the Government. This is not to criticise those limitations in any way because I believe they are necessary in order to avoid the sort of excesses that took place prior to November 1960 when the then Treasurer, the late  Mr Harold  Holt, brought in a Bill altering once again the Income Tax Assessment Act, this time prohibiting interest on convertible notes as a deduction. I believe that in trying to find the reasons for this Bill the answer perhaps lies in it being the thin edge of the wedge, although it would not be used by many people now. But at least it has brought these sections back into the Income Tax Asssessment Act where they can easily be amended later so that they will be more acceptable to members of the community who want to use convertible notes. But the onus is on the Government to prove that in the form in which they appear in this Bill they are of great use to our community in encouraging investment and for the other purposes which have been mentioned in a very vague sort of way. 
The second reason why the Opposition opposes this Bill is the effect it has on interest rates. 1 hardly need outline the hardships being caused in the community at the present time by the high rate of interest which we are suffering. We have only to look at the interest rate on mortgage loans to understand this. We have only to see how savings banks are forced to reduce the amount of home mortgage loans to applicants because of the present monetary policies, and how building societies are experiencing difficulties, to know that the monetary policies of this Government are creating great hardships in the community. 1 submit that in encouraging a new form of investment and a greater demand for savings in the community which are in short supply the Bill will merely increase interest rates and the demand for money and thus the cost of money. I think this is another worthwhile reason to put forward for the reticence of the Opposition to support this Bill at the present time. I would like to draw to the attention of the House the words of the late  Mr Harold  Holt in his second reading speech on the Income Tax and Social Services Contribution Assessment Bill (No. 3) 1960 when interest was removed from the list of allowable deductions for taxation purposes. He said: 
In my statement I outlined why the Government had decided upon these measures. 
That is, removing interest rates on convertible notes from the list of allowable deductions. He continued: 
I pointed out how the bidding of higher and higher rates of interest for  borrowed  morley had been working  to  the disadvantage of governments and other public authorities  and,  through them,  to  the disadvantage  of  the general taxpayer. This was because the less governments could borrow on reasonable terms the more they  had  to obtain in taxation  to  finance basic developmental works and the provision  of  community services. 
I also went on to say  that  the bidding-up  of  interest rates imposed  a burden  on productive enterprises and added to costs generally. Industry, in general, seeks  to  raise  finance  as  Cheaply  as it can, especially when it wants the money for longterm investment  and  when it  has  to engage in strenuous competition to sett its products either on local markets or overseas. 
I will not quote any more of the words of the late  Mr Harold  Holt other than when he said, after developing this argument: 
This unrestrained competition for capital is not good for the economy . . . 
I suggest that a measure such as this - unsupported, I will admit, by evidence of where it is required - can have no result other than to encourage investment and add to the demand for investment capital and so increase its cost. I list this as another reason why the measure should be treated with a great deal of reticence. 
The third reason for opposing this Bill lies in the very wording of the Bill. There are 13 pages of extremely complicated provisions in order to arrive at the result that we have today. The explanatory memorandum goes to over 24 pages. I use this opportunity to object to the making of what is already a stupidly complicated Act into a ridiculous Act. which engages the activities of too many intelligent people for too great a length of time. This Bill merely makes this position worse by these provisions. This is not to criticise those who had to draft this Bill. I know how difficult it is to include these measures in the Act without leaving any loopholes. But I list it as another reason why T am opposing the Bill at this time. I will use this and any other occasion given to me to say that it is high time that we looked at this Act as a whole. It has about SOO sections. It covers about 425 reasonably sized pages. It has become an absurd Act to master - an Act which is doing nothing but retard productivity in the community in as much as  so  many intelligent people are involved in finding all sorts of ways through and around it. I do not want to do anything to add to this occupation. But I want to be constructive at the same time. 
It is high time we in Australia had a royal commission into this field of taxation. Canada has recently had a royal commission - the Carter Commission. It is not a panacaea, I agree, but it at least brings together many people who are knowledgeable and interested in this complicated sphere to examine the whole field of taxation rather than the ad hoc way the Act is being examined at this present time. I believe the report of such a commission should at least set the sights on where we should be heading in the field of taxation over 5 or even 10 years. At the same time 
I advocate that we should have an Australian taxation foundation such as already exists in Canada, a body of people outside our Taxation Branch who are knowledgeable in this field - lawyers, accountants and people in business - and who are interested in this field which is vital to the welfare of our nation and vital to our level of economic activity. At the moment the only research being undertaken is either within the Taxation Branch or on an ad hoc basis at an odd faculty of economics or commerce in various universities throughout Australia. The taxation foundation would be a continuing body. The Government should help to finance it just as the Canadian Government helps to finance the Canadian taxation foundation. We have the nucleus at the moment for such a body in the form of the Taxation Institute of Australia, of which I am a member on the South Australian Council. This is a body of lawyers and accountants who are interested in this field and who are using their spare time to do what they can to improve their knowledge of this Act and its application. We also have, of course, the Law Society of Australia, the Institute of Chartered Accountants and the Australian Society of Accountants. If these organisations were correctly stimulated by the Government I believe that they would take part in an Australian taxation foundation. However, this would not be a substitute for the work of a Royal Commission which would set the sights and show us where we were going in this field. Such a foundation would provide the knowledge which would stimulate what is taking place in this field within the Taxation Department and it would guard from day to day, month to month and year to year the interests of the taxpayers. 
There are plenty of precedents for a proposal such as the one I have suggested. I draw the attention of the House to the Institute of Economic and Social Welfare which has been set up in the United Kingdom and subsidised by that Government. That Institute is financed in part by commerce and industry. It houses a number of economists, social scientists and political scientists who are working on a lot of the subjects that are being dealt with within the British Treasury, the British Department of Health and the Department of Social Services. In effect that Institute is an alternative body of knowledge and thought to that which obtains within the Government. 
In the short time that is left to me in this debate 1 want to repeat the 3 reasons why the Opposition opposes this Bill at this time. Firstly, the onus is on the Government to prove who wants these convertible notes. We have not heard anything about this so far. We on this side believe that this is the thin end of the wedge. Secondly, there is the effect of interest rates on the community. Thirdly, difficulties are being created in what is already an absurd Act. Finally, I would like to take up a point made by the honourable member for Curtin when he facetiously said that at least the Opposition is not on this occasion referring the matter to a committee. My reply to him is: What a pity that it is not. I believe that there is not one member of this House with any deep knowledge of the underwriting field. What a pity it is that those few people who are interested in (his subject are not able to sit around a committee table to inquire into this Bill. The Bill could be referred to a select committee which could confer with people like  Mr Denton  and  Mr Gleeson  White whom I mentioned, perhaps with the Managing Director of Australian United Corporation and with others who know underwriting or who take an academic interest in it. We may be able to learn more and to justify what is before us at present. We do not have such a system at present but I believe that we should have it. I hope that even honourable members on the Government side would believe that if we could debate a Bill such as this one with more expert knowledge on the subject it would add to the status of this House. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Did Australia abstain from voting on United Nations resolution 2602A which appeals to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the 
United States of America as an urgent preliminary measure to declare a moratorium on further testing and deployment of new strategic nuclear weapons systems: if so, why. 
Did Australia abstain from voting on United Nations resolution 2602C which seeks effective methods of control of nuclear weapons that maximise radio-active effects and asks the United Nations Committee for Disarmament to inform the General Assembly al the next session the results of consideration of this subject; if so, why. 
Did Australia, . in company with Portugal and the United Slates, vote against United Nations resolution 2603A which opposed any chemical and biological agents used in war, and yet in resolution 2603 B voted for wider distribution of U Thant's chemical and biological warfare report (A/7575); if so, why. 
ls Australia in favour of convening a conference on the law of the sea to review the regimes of the high seas which lie beyond the limits of national jurisdiction, namely, resolution 2574; if not. why not. 
I participate in this debate on the estimates of the Prime Minister's Department in order to raise some questions about the whole structure of the Department. We are now discussing the so-called think tank or nerve centre of the nation. May I say, quite bluntly, from what I can see where I stand that it is far from being a pretty sight? If it is a think tank we ought to be able to judge it from more than the figures that we see in the Appropriation Bill (No. 1). I want to raise, in particular, the fact that there is this dichotomy between the Prime Minister's Department on the one hand and the Cabinet Office on the other. I am going only on my personal observations. I am unable to obtain any confidential information, and if I did I would not be able to use it in this chamber, but I will outline the information that I have because it will lead to a point that I will make later. I raise this subject because, as far as I can see, the Head of the Prime Minister's Department does not sit in on Cabinet, yet he, his  2  deputy secretaries, 3 first assistant secretaries and a number of other assistant secretaries are in charge of planning the policy of this nation and of recommending policy to Cabinet. They are not privy to the thinking of Cabinet Ministers. On the other hand the Head of the Cabinet Office has the advantage of being a fly on the wall while Cabinet is sitting and of learning all this information. He does not attend the Premiers' Conferences. I repeat, these are personal observations. 
I took the trouble to come to Canberra from Adelaide last Thursday week, 8th October, during the course of the last Premiers' Conference and, as far as I could ascertain.  Sir John  Bunting and his deputies were not sitting in on that conference whereas they would normally be at a meeting of Cabinet Ministers, but  Mr Hewitt  of the Prime Minister's Department and his officers were sitting in on that occasion. My point is that with this sort of structure the right hand does not know what the left hand is doing and vice versa. In a situation such as this, in a key nerve centre of government of this country, the onus is on the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and his Government to prove to the nation that the structure is the correct structure for this nation. 
 I am grateful for the interjection because the Prime Minister should be here. He must account for the stewardship of his Department, which is the key department of the nation. As I mentioned earlier, I am relying on personal observations because of the lack of further information.  I  may be charged, as vice-chairman of the Public Accounts Committee - indeed, as Acting  Chairman  now - with being partly responsible for not seeing that there are other ways of obtaining knowledge about such a department, but let us be realistic. From all the knowledge that I have been able to gain in my year in this Parliament, the Public Accounts Committee has never done an indepth inquiry into any department which is a nerve centre of government and while it is structured as it is at the moment, with a majority of Government backbenchers and a Government member as  chairman,  it is unlikely to do so. This is not to suggest that the Committee is not doing a valuable job. I would defend it for the job it is doing, but it is not doing a job which would elicit the sort of information that I believe should be available to the representatives of the people in this chamber, namely, information about the structure of such a key department as the Prime Minister's Department and its relationship to the Cabinet Office. The onus of proof is on the Government to prove that the present structure is correct. 
During the course of the last year the Prime Minister has been lecturing the nation. He gave a leading lecture in Adelaide on the importance of management education. One of the first principles of management is that there should be proper lines of communication and I suggest that all the evidence in front of a representative of the people, such as  myself, is that  such a structure does not exist in the key Prime Minister's Department. 
I want to move on from there to a couple of other items in this extremely heterogeneous department and to take up the point which has been made by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry).  He mentioned that section of thi Prime Minister's Department relating to the arts. Here we must be fair and say that the present Prime Minister has far more interest in the arts than had other Prime Ministers in recent years. But I sugest that wilh all the other responsibilities that he has on his plate, surely he can find some other Minister within his Cabinet or indeed within his Ministry to take this burden off his shoulders. Along with the honourable member for Franklin, 1 advocate that stimulating the arts is an extremely important area of government in our community. At the moment we have the situation in which the arts are not for every man by any manner or means. The arts seem to be for the privileged people in this country. I think it is true to say that of all the nations, until recently it was only the English speaking nations which did not have a national theatre. Now we are being left well behind even the other English speaking nations, inasmuch as Great Britain has its National Theatre, Canada has its National Theatre and  I  believe that New Zealand has its National Theatre. 
The Irish have had one for years, and that was the one grand exception to the point 1 made about English speaking people not having a theatre for many years.  We  are left with the United States as being about the only country not to have a national theatre.  I  record my gratification that at least $200,000 was granted to the Adelaide Festival Theatre during the last financial year, but I suggest that as Adelaide is the home of culture in this nation, it might be wise for the Government to allocate further sums to the Adelaide Festival of the Arts, to the Adelaide Festival Theatre, not only in the current year 1970-7.1, but in future years. 
Another factor about the estimates for the Prime Minister's Department relates to the Auditor-General's office. My functions on the Public Accounts Committee have kept me quite close to the Auditor-General and his duties. J believe that any intelligent reader of the last Auditor-General's report would come to the conclusion that the Auditor-General is finding the task beyond the resources at his command. 1 am disappointed to note that the appropriation for the Auditor-General's office has been reduced, I believe, in the current year, although I cannot put my finger on the amount in the very short space of time left to me. 1 believe that the full appropriation was not spent in the previous year, but in this year the appropriation is down, although it is up on the amount spent last year. A lot more effort should be made to see that that Office is staffed adequately, because it is a key office in seeing that government is efficiently administered. 
I should have liked to mention VIP aircraft, the High Commissioner's office in London and the need for an inquiry into the Public Service, but I can merely emphasise that the Prime Minister's Department is an extremely heterogeneous department. I believe that on the face of it a lot more inquiry is needed into this Department. I hope that in the next year we will see signs of these things happening. (Quorum formed) 
I have been sitting here wondering how on earth I could liven up this debate, and I have come to the conclusion that, if I may use the similes that have been used already, I am batting on a sticky wicket, particularly after the speech of the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  which was nothing but a damning of the Bills with faint praise. Of course I am batting on that sticky wicket also because the whole history of these Bills as they are before the House now is one of sordidity - 1 think that would be one of the adjectives one could use - as far as this Government is concerned. I would like for the sake of the record once again to trace why we are debating the Bills here tonight in their present form. First of all, the Commonwealth Government a few years ago forced the States, led by Western Australia, then followed by Victoria and after that by all the other States, with Queensland bringing up the rear, into this regressive form of taxation. I am proud to say that the Australian Labor Party in almost every case solidly opposed this form of taxation from the start. I am pleased to see the honourable Jack Tonkin, who is the Leader of the Opposition in Western Australia and the next Premier of that State, in the Speaker's gallery tonight, following the last of this sordid history of the receipts tax. 
Then there is the second episode. A feast for the lawyers, I think we can call it. The Hamersley case was the first, in September 1969. It was inconclusive because there were only 6 judges sitting on the bench of the High Court of Australia due to an unfortunate death on that bench. Three went one way and three the other. So we had to wait a little longer until we had the case of the Western Australian Government v. Chamberlain Industries Ltd, a good Western Australian company but nevertheless not sufficiently patriotic to its own State to pay the tax without some form of protest. Eventually, of course, we had the test case of the Victorian Government versis IAC Wholesale Pty Ltd and by majority judgment once again the Hamersley case was followed. We found that with, I believe, 17 barristers in court in the case of the Western Australian Government versus Chamberlain Industries Ltd, and with the court office selling the judgments at S27 a set, the outcome of it all was that duties imposed by the various States on receipts of payments in whole or in part on sales of goods manufactured in Australia - and this came to mean even assembled in Australia - are duties of excise within the meaning of Section 90 of the Constitution and therefore invalid. 
So that was the end of the second episode in this sordid history. The third was when we had the spectacle that my friend and colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports told us about, of the Government bringing in a miserable set of Bills such as the ones we have before us now - this was around early June - which we debated in this chamber on 12th June. My colleague has already reminded the House of the amendment moved by the Opposition at that time, the amendment having the effect of saying that this form of tax was cumbersome and regressive and that we were declining to give the Bill a second reading because of that. I repeat that I am proud that we took that stand at that time, and T would be willing to debate the form of these Bills with the honourable member for Curtin in front of almost any audience in this country; he was saying some extremely stupid things about them. [ think at one stage he said that the UnderTreasurer in Western Australia, if that is the title that the gentleman has, was to be commended for finding this growth tax. f would think that the man who thought up this form of taxation would be suffering nightmares for the rest of his life because he had been forced by the activities of the Commonwealth Government to impose this form of regressive tax on the people. I will come back to this a little later after I have been through the history of this tax to remind thu House of what we think of this form of tax, namely this receipts duty tax. 
The next episode was one of high drama when the Bills were thrown out of the Senate. Now, it seems to me utter hypocrisy for newspapers or any other commentator in Australia to commend the Democratic Labor Party for doing this. Mow could the Democratic Labor Party have done it without the resolute stand taken by the vast majority of senators in Opposition, namely those from my own Party, the Australian Labor Party. The DLP is merely the rump of the Opposition although it was with the help of members of the DLP that these Bills were thrown out. 
So we came to the sixth episode in this history when the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  announced in his Budget Speech that the Bills would be re-introduced. Of course, the nation expected the same Bills to be re-introduced. This brought us to the seventh episode when I think what could best be described as wheeling and dealing went on in the corridors of power.  Senator Gair,  and probably  Senator McManus  with him, waited on the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and told him that the Bills would meet the same fate in the Senate. Once again, this could happen only if the Australian Labor Party in this Parliament stood resolute against this unpopular form of tax. The upshot of all this is that a compromise was reached, the sordid compromise that we have here tonight, of validating legislation in retrospect. 
I do not think anybody ought to be proud of legislation validating in retrospect what has already been collected in many cases, what has been sent in to State stamp duty offices in other cases under protest, and in still further cases what is awaiting the decision of this House as to whether it has to be sent in in the form of duties from 18th November, when the Hamersley case was first decided, to 30th September, the date decided by that other partner in the present Government coalition, namely the Democratic Labor Party. The DLP decided the date on which the tax would cease. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  interjected I thought most aptly when the honourable member for Curtin was speaking, asking 'Where will the money be found?' I would like at this stage, before I get on to details of the receipts duty legislation, to remind the House that 1 asked the Treasurer on 13th October this question: 
Does the Treasurer recall saying in his Budget Speech on 18th August, lets than ?. mouth.'' ago, that his proK&gt;s::ls aimed to produce 'a balanced Budget,-- 
That is his proposals in the Budget -  a Budget shaped to the requirements of ... an economy still threatened by disruptive inflation'? Did not indeed the Budget estimates arrive al a small surplus of S4m? How does he reconcile this policy and also the Government's inability to find an extra deserving amount for the pensioners of this nation with the newly announced policy of finding overnight an extra $50m for the States, as announced after last Thursday's Premiers Conference? 

 His answer is a little too long for me to take precious time in reading il tonight. To paraphrase it, he said that he would not agree that it was $50m although most other commentators in the nation agreed it was, that it was unfair of me to mention the pensioners although I fail to see how it is unfair when it is a shocking indictment of the Government that we cannot find S25m for pensioners to live in something less than the dire poverty in which they are living at the moment and yet because of  Senator Gair's  visit to the Prime Minister's office we can find S50m overnight to make up for this tax. 
But the main point that I want to raise is that if we can find this S50m - and I say that the amount is near that figure if it is not quite that - we can certainly find a few extra million dollars to reimburse the States for that amount which has not been collected by the States up to 30th September or which has been collected by the States under protest and which is the only amount which the States would have to reimburse to taxpayers within the boundaries of their States. If $50m can be found overnight for this then certainly there is no reason for these Bills - and I say the extra money can be found. I would certainly prefer to have my friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports in charge of the Treasury because he would raise a little more for the pensioners at the same time, but our whole attitude towards the priorities in the finding of this money and the payment of it would be vastly different if that were so. f have been through the history of these Bills and I want to repeat that it is a shameful situation that we find ourselves in. Yet there seems to be some surprise, if one can go by what the honourable member for Curtin has said, that we are being consistent on this matter. Perhaps he needs reminding of a few other characteristics of these Bills other than the ones that I have mentioned in passing. First of all, it breaks down one of the cardinal principles that all taxation should follow and that is equity. The honourable member for Curtin mentioned this matter. My friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports mentioned the multiplication effect. I think, if 1 remember rightly, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports mentioned the orange and how there were about 6 transactions from that of the orange being plucked from the tree until it reached the hands of the person who ate it. Indeed, each one of these 6 transactions drew to it separately some receipts duty. Another way of putting it is that there is an arbitrary multiplicative effect according to the accident of the number of transactions, and this is particularly heavy on any area which has a low-profit high-turnover ratio. Any business which runs on a low profit but on a high turnover is particularly hard hit by a tax such as this one. The second characteristic of the tax is that it is regressive in nature. I mentioned this earlier. It does not apply to people according to means. It does not follow the principle of the ability to pay, as I also mentioned earlier. The third characteristic is that it has been responsible for an inefficient allocation of resources in the community. In fact it encourages monopolies and restrictive trade practices. Whereas in those areas it is possible to pass on the tax in increased prices, the small businessman or the person who is operating in a competitive area has greater difficulty in passing it on. 
Another most important characteristic of the tax is that it is expensive to collect. I know from experience that many new computer programmes had to be written. In some cases new accounting machines had to be purchased in order to collect the necessary information. It is ridiculous for the honourable member for Curtin to say, arising out of those 2 points, that the tax was not inflationary. To stand here in the House of Representatives of our national Parliament and tell us that the only cause of inflation, or the main cause, is rises in wages is ridiculous in the extreme. 
Well, the honourable member said almost the same as that. I invite him to look at Hansard tomorrow, if he has not altered the proofs in the meantime, to see what he repeated on a couple of occasions on this very question. Another of the characteristics of the tax which needs to be attacked in the strongest possible terms - and the House and the nation need to be reminded of this - is the way in which it encourages evasion. Every retired person who had some small dividends coming in was obliged to keep a receipt book and to place a stamp on the receipt for that little dividend coming in. How many people knew this, or how many when they learnt about it got worried in their old age because they had not been carrying out these forms which they were obliged to carry out under the Act? The evasion in the community was enormous. I am very glad that we are not going to have to put up with this position much longer. 
These are the main characteristics of the receipts duty tax which we in my Party have found obnoxious. No other country has a tax like this one. We have been consistent in our opposition to it. We have forced on the Government alternative forms of financing the States to the States having to levy this form of tax. Unlike the Australian Democratic Labor Party, we are not doing deals in any corridors. As I said earlier, we are sticking to our principles in opposing bad legislation. I have mentioned that there is an alternative to the present course. There is no need for these Bills. The Commonwealth can reimburse the States for what the States would otherwise have received up until 30th September. 
I conclude by stating that I hope there will be a change of heart by the other Party in the coalition, the Australian Democratic Labor Party, and that its members will not allow us to tag on to them the responsibility which will be theirs for seeing that this tax is collected even up to 30th September. By saying that, 1 am inviting them to oppose the legislation in the Senate, because my Party will no doubt not have the numbers to throw it out of this House. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian education system; a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all; more than 500,000 children suffer from serious lack of equal opportunity; Australia cannot afford to waste the talents of one sixth of its school children; only the Commonwealth has the financial resources for special programmes to remove inadequacies; and nations such as the United Kingdom and the United States have shown that the chief impetus for change and the finance for improvement come from the National Government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives make legal provision for a joint Commonwealth-State inquiry into inequalities in Australian education to obtain evidence on which to base long term national programmes for the elimination of inequalities; the immediate financing of special programmes for low income earners, migrants, Aboriginal, rural and inner suburban dwellers and handicapped children; and the provision of pre-school opportunities for all children from culturally different or socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
After the contribution of the previous  speaker,  the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden),  I would not blame honourable members or, indeed, other people listening to this Parliament today, if they felt that the subject under discussion had become so camouflaged as to no longer be recognisable. Let me remind the House what we are debating as a matter of public importance - in fact, of urgency. It is the failure of the Government to protect the Australian consumers and export industries from rapidly increas ing prices and to apply and to extend the Trade Practices Act. My colleague, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who opened this debate, has drawn a descriptive picture of the hardships being suffered, particularly in the rural sector, the sector with which he has most concern because he represents a country electorate. However, he has not failed to include among those whose standard of living is suffering badly because of the inaction of the present Government, all of those on fixed incomes and those whose incomes are increased very slowly, sometimes after long delays and after previous damaging increases in prices. In other words, the real standard of living of these people suffers a decline because they do not possess the economic power to maintain, to say nothing about improve, their economic position as do, say, the employers and the entrepreneurs of this country. These sufferers are the lesser privileged people in the community. The pensioners are one group which comes readily to mind. They are the very people who can ill afford to take another knock. These are the people who suffer the most hardship from inflation and from the ever increasing prices. These are the people whom we, on the Australian Labor Party side of the House, for humanitarian and many other reasons, are proud to champion as, indeed, we are proud to represent all men of good will who are prepared to seek to remedy hardships and injustices, whether or not those hardships and injustices apply to themselves. 
My other colleague from the Opposition in this debate, the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  has moved further into the subject of adequate action to control inflation to protect Australian consumers and export industries. He has spoken, in particular, about restrictive trade practices legislation, or the lack of it, and the ineffectiveness of that legislation which does exist. He has reminded us how the Act, under which we are now trying to operate, trying to create really competitive economic activity in order to stimulate efficiency and increased productivity and lower profit margins and thus lower prices, is but a pale image of the one that  Sir Garfield  Barwick brought into this House. The manufacturers' lobby, as indeed the lobbies of other employers, got to work on their friends in this Liberal-Country PartyDemocratic Labor Party coalition Government and pointed out how the present occupiers of the government benches are there only because of the financial and other assistance of these various employers' lobbies, and pointed out that they cannot bite the hand that feeds them. The result: An ineffective and ineffectual piece of restrictive trade practices legislation, recognised as such from the start by the Australian Labor Party - a piece of legislation which has rushed headlong into all sorts of delays and difficulties, and is still doing so. I need not elaborate further on this subject. The honourablt member for Cunningham already has done so. Even the Minister in charge of the Act, the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Hughes),  recognised the waste and disappointment of this toothless Act in his now well known Tasmanian speech. 
The honourable member for Cunningham touched also on the subject of price control and the Constitution. I remind the House of the report of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review which reported to this Parliament in November 1959, almost 11 years ago, and entirely overlooked by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony).  This lazy Government has had 11 years to do something about that report. Disgracefully, it has been pigeonholed. T remind the House that in this report there are valuable sections on navigation and shipping, aviation, scientific and industrial research, nuclear energy, posts and telegraphs and other like services including broadcasting, television and other telecommunication services, industrial relations, corporations, restrictive trade practices, marketing of primary products, economic powers and interstate road transport, all subjects of vital concern to any active, energetic government which is concerned to protect the people of its nation from unnecessary economic hardship. Regrettably, we do not find such action taken by the present Federal Government, in spite of the fact that the Constitutional Review Committee contained a majority of Government members. 
What the people of this country need badly from government in this economic sphere is leadership. That is not what they are getting. Instead, we have the complacency characterised by the 2 Ministers we have heard from this afternoon, ls there one impartial, objective observer who does not commend the work of the South Australian Prices Commissioner? Is this not precisely what we should have in the Federal sphere? No-one is suggesting that the setting up of such an office is the panacea, and that immediately price increases will cease. No-one that I know of is suggesting that the structure should be such that it would be a vast, bureaucratic machine exercising power over the prices of all commodities. That is not the South Australian concept. What this country needs is such an office, with controls over key commodities, to set the pattern for the nation. It is a salutary and rewarding exercise for industrialists, particularly the many of them in monopolistic positions who have at the moment in their own often inefficient, often greedy hands, the power of deciding prices, to have to submit their plans for increases to an independent office. It makes them think through those plans. Justifiably in so many cases, it delays their implementation. It makes those entrepreneurs justify their actions. 
This plea for leadership in this sphere in this country is not asking for something new or radical. It is asking for powers which exist and are used in the United Kingdom, the United States of America and New Zealand, to mention only 3 countries with economies similar to ours. Who will ever forget the leadership of President Kennedy in 1961 when steel companies were increasing prices? He halted those increases which would have had such a disastrous, snowballing effect on the economy of his country. What a contrast with the inaction of the Australian Federal Government during the last round of steel price increases in this country. Even Conservative governments in the United Kingdom make constant pleas to entrepreneurs there to shave their profit margins and to concentrate on efficiency. 
In all the speeches we read made by Federal Cabinet Ministers to Institutes of Directors, Chambers of Commerce and Manufactures, Employers Federations and even Young Liberal Movements from one end of Australia to another, there is precious little persuasion to temper the greed, to lower the profit margins and to attempt to break the ever-present costs and prices spiral. They do not even exercise persuasion on the females of this nation to take up the midi and maxi fashions - of course, discarding the minis in the process - and so increase the consumption of wool. Leadership by the Federal Government has been lacking in very many instances. My time is so short that I can but mention in passing a few other examples of where the Government is failing to support the Australian consumer and export industries. 
Why have we not a stronger savings campaign? Any intelligent observer of the economic scene knows that if savings do not equal investment an inflationary situation is encouraged. Why have we not an Australian consumers' council financed by the Commonwealth Government just as the British one is financed by the British Government? As good as the job is that is being done by the consumers' associations in both countries, this is no substitute for the work of the council in the field of packaging and consumer protection generally. Why do we not follow the up-to-date methods of economists such as Professor Galbraith in fighting inflation instead of relying on the present out-of-date methods being used, such as increasing interest rates? I dealt with this in my speech on the Budget on 28th August. Let me merely quote from yesterday's 'Australian' headlined 'Home Buyers Hit by Interest'. The article says: 
Home ownership, especially for lower paid prospective buyers, has reached a stage in South Australia where it is becoming increasingly beyond their reach. Because of high interest rates more people in this category are finding they cannot afford their own homes. This is the significant message of the South Australian Housing Trust's Annual Report for the year to 30th June of this year. 
I am sure that that applies to the rest of Australia, too, to say nothing of the effect of high interest rates on the costs of farmers and so many others in our community. I wish I had time to talk about the lack of support given by this Government to the Tariff Board. The Board cannot even obtain sufficient staff to do its work. This has had an inflationary effect. There is little need to talk about shipping freights and the imposts which Government policy in this area has placed upon our people. These matters have been aired recently. 
As Acting  Chairman,  I present the One Hundred and Twenty-third Report of the Public Accounts Committee. I seek leave to make a short statement. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the average Weekly Male Earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance  with  A.C.T.U. policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition: so that our citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
As Acting  Chairman  of the Joint Statutory Committee on Public Accounts I present the One Hundred and Twenty-fourth Report of the Committee and I ask for leave to make a short statement. 
Does the Treasurer agree that the sharp seasonal liquidity fluctuations in Australia are damaging to our economy, particularly as they result in conservative Treasurers applying harsher monetary measures, such as even higher interest rates? Does he agree that these fluctuations are, to a large extent, caused by Government taxation policy whereby many individuals have large amounts of taxation to pay in April, many citizens receive taxation refunds in July, August and September, and many companies pay taxation in February? Will he introduce the United Kingdom practices in this matter? If not, what does his Government intend to do about this unsatisfactory situation? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Was the expenditure of$ 10,000,000 during 1969-70 under Division 917, Item 08, Financial Assistance - Victoria, shown in the Treasurer's Statement of Receipts and Expenditure at page 49, for any specific purpose. 
On what date was the amount paid. 
Was the payment a grant or a loan. 
If the payment was a loan, what were the conditions attached to it. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Has  Mr Dunshea,  the  Chairman  of Dunlops, yet contacted you or do you expect him to do so, concerning the rigging of prices for the man in the street, which is known as retail price maintenance? What are your Government's views concerning retail price maintenance which you have passed on or will pass on to your Government's big business masters? In view of the fact that every comparable government elsewhere in the world has legislation preventing this 'form of price rigging, why has not the Government with which you have been associated for 20 years done anything about the problem, thus forcing others to do so? 
I ask the Prime Minister a supplementary question arising out of the answer which he has just given to the honourable member for Henty. On what grounds should this House have known that the Government intended to to legislate on retail price maintenance? Is it not a fact that last Thursday week during question time I raised the question of retail price maintenance and asked the Prime Minister what the policy of the Government was in this sphere and that the Prime Minister completely avoided the question? 
The Government contribution to this debate has taken the inevitable line of conservatives. The Gorton Government lived by the Press and died by the Press. In spite of this, the McMahon Government - the same crew who have merely done a double shuffle - is trying to continue to exist by the Press. Honourable members opposite have been mesmerised by a few headlines in this morning's paper and by a few temporary comments from State Premiers, as we heard from the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  just now. But this is all nonsense. Forty-eight and a half million dollars of public funds may have bought this morning's headlines but it certainly has not brought about any cure for the situation which has already been outlined very ably by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  We have merely been spectators at another tragic episode in the drama that is known as Commonwealth-State financial relations. We have merely seen another skid in the continual ricochet from one ad hoc decision to another, from one Premiers' Conference at one part of the year to another Premiers' Conference, sometimes accompanied by a Loan Council Meeting, at another time of the year. 
I would like to analyse this latest episode in greater detail. It is only 2 days more than 2 calendar months ago - namely, on 4th February last - that the Premiers of the States met in this Parliament House and, despite recommendations to the contrary from the Treasury, received precisely nothing. Let me read (from a statement by the Premier and Treasurer of South Australia, the honourable Donald Dunstan, which he made in the South Australian Parliament on 23rd February last. This will give some idea of what his thinking was just 6 weeks ago on this matter of his own State's finances. He said: 
Despite this gloomy and worrying picture with its serious implications for the future standards of State services, the Commonwealth has  refused  to make available any additional financial assistance, even though it was pointed out at the recent conference that expenditures this yeal" were already committed, and that any special assistance would not increase the current outlay on goods and services. It would merely reduce the order of deficits and run down of cash resources and would thus have no inflationary effect. While the Prime Minister has agreed to meet the Premiers again in April it seems clear at this point of time that each State will have no alternative but to look for ways of increasing ils own revenues, of controlling its current expenditures even to the stage of holding standards below desirable levels, and of deferring capital programmes so that loan funds may be available to finance unavoidable revenue deficits. The recent conference has offered us no hope whatever of relief. Let me make it quite clear. There has been some loose talk in the Press that the State will get some assistance from the Commonwealth in April. There has been no such indication from the Commonwealth - the indications were in fact clearly to the contrary. What is more, we could obtain no undertaking that next year there would be  an  increase in loan monies - or even that they would be maintained at this year's level. In my view the Commonwealth's attitude requires far too great an effort  on  the part of the public sector in the overall plan to avoid problems of inflation and too little effort on the part of large areas of private enterprise. II calls for a further distortion of the real priorities in the use of physical resources. 
I repeat that that statement was made on 23rd February, just 6 weeks ago. arising out of the Premiers Conference which took place just over 2 calendar months ago. The result of the South Australian Premier's interpretation of the situation was the necessary imposition of taxes and other charges totalling $6m in a full year. Anybody who knows anything about State taxes will realise just how unfortunate such an imposition is because of the regressive nature of such taxes, to mention no other point, and the cost-push inflationary nature of those taxes must also be taken into consideration. That was the result of the Commonwealth's attitude 2 months ago. Let me bring the saga a little closer to today. On Monday, 15th March, just 3 weeks ago yesterday, the new Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  had this to say in the censure debate in this House: 
A real problem arises more in the area of Commonwealth and State public works. 1 want to point out for purposes of comparison that our gross national product in money terms is rising at the rate of about 9 per cent per annum. If we let one sector of the economy get out of step or substantially out of step with that 9 per cent, we will strike inflationary pressures and we can expect that prices in that sector of the economy will rise substantially. We will undoubtedly create inbalance in the economy. To amplify the point I am putting, in 1970-71 there was a total increase of Commonwealth and State expenditures of 12.8 per cent and the increase in capital expenditures included in that was about 15.5 per cent. In the recent economic and financial change we were laying the foundations so that at the time of the next Budget we would have prepared the way to take both monetary and fiscal action which would permit us to reduce the inflationary pressures and, over a period of months, to bring inflation under control. 
That was said just 3 weeks ago. Can anyone, by any stretch of the imagination, come to the conclusion that that statement was a lead to the States relating to their forward planning? Can anyone come to the conclusion that the States were likely to be helped 3 weeks later by a handout of $48im? In fact, of course, a progressive State leader such as Don Dunstan was forced to go ahead and impose his regressive taxes whilst conservative leaders such as  Sir Henry  Bolte announced cuts in essential State public expenditure. I believe that included in the announcement in Victoria was the shameful news that expenditure on new schools was to be cut even more than it has been cut. So to yesterday and the $48im drawn like a bunny out of the hat. The result is that State policies are sent on another skid. There just is not the necessary consultation far enough ahead for proper planning in our community when we have examples such as this. 
That brings me to the terms of the motion. So far, by using only the example of yesterday's Premiers Conference as one episode, I trust I have been able to show the chaos which exists today - the wellnigh insurmountable difficulties being faced by State treasurers and under-treasurers. I could well have read out the headlines from newspapers at least twice a year for the last 10 years or even 20 years of this Liberal-Country Party Government to illustrate the same sort of sorry story of a lack of planning, consultation and machinery. But the Labor Party does not intend to be merely critical in this debate, in spite of the fact that there is so much to be critical about. The terms of the matter of public importance give a clue to what should be done. We refer to a lack of machinery for Government consultation and public information on Commonwealth, State and regional finances and functions. We are not asking for something which does not exist to some extent in another comparable economy, namely, that of Canada. Canada has a valuable committee of provincial and federal treasury and taxation officials, so that there is at least greater communication at this important level. The new Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in this debate talked glibly about unofficial communication. I assert that this is not nearly as effective as some formality in these arrangements. Busy men otherwise neglect the necessary communication. Is there anyone who will suggest that the head of the Commonwealth-States section of the Treasury and the State undertreasurers are not busy men? 
But it is not only at this level that the machinery should be created. My colleagues have already pointed out other areas of great need - housing, urban renewal, social services at the Federal level as compared with social welfare at the State level, the Matrimonial Causes Act and the legal aid that surrounds that Act, public transport and so on. We could spend all our time just pointing out the great needs of the community. We are not advocating something which we are not prepared to put into practice ourselves. In the time that Labor leader Chifley was the Prime Minister we had constituted the Commonwealth and States Roads Agreement and the Commonwealth and States Housing Agreement. We provided Federal money for hospitals, agricultural extension services and research programmes, forestry grants and so on. Most of that machinery described by the Minister for National Development was set up under a Labor government. But since 1949 we have had very little relating to the great needs there are in the community. We have had a little Commonwealth cooperation in the area of the Austraiian Universities Commission, but there is very little else to which we can turn. I have pointed out the chaos that is existing at the present time in this relationship between the Commonwealth and the States when trying to deal with great areas of need. 
by leave- 1 thank the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  for allowing me to say a few words about this matter. Unlike my colleague and friend the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  the first 1 knew of the details of the statement was when it was distributed after the Minister began speaking this afternoon. I want to comment on that point. I think this method of distributing a statement is an extremely good one. lt is over a year now since I wrote to the former Prime Minister, now the Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton),  and asked whether - and there had been one precedent for this since f entered this place - statements could not be distributed in the House when the relevant Minister rose to speak. I said that it helped one's comprehension much more to be able to go through the statement in detail as the Minister made it to the House. On a later occasion when I had an opportunity to speak to the then Prime Minister, I reminded him of my letter. He said that he had received it and told me that very shortly he would be acting on it because this was the procedure in the Senate. But I think this is the first occasion on which the action has been taken. In thanking the Minister for this,  1  ask him to pass my comments on to the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz),  who is not here now, and also to suggest to him that there is no reason why this should not be done in every case. 
It is not just because this has been done that I have something to say on this occasion. The Minister will be glad to learn that I do not intend to go through the statement in detail. But I do take this opportunity to protest that we are not given the opportunity to debate this important statement. In dealing with this statement we are dealing only with technological change. 1 maintain that the country has tremendous problems at the present time in respect of all sorts of changes which are not covered in this statement. The greatest of all, of course, is what is happening in the countryside. It would seem that if we are to be honest with the people of Australia who live in the bush we will have to admit that the transfer of people into urban centres will continue. We hope that if we can get a government that will do something about decentralisation instead of talking about it- 
I have a question for the Minister for Labour and National Service. Was his interjected comment on Tuesday during my contribution relating to the employment training scheme for persons displaced by technological change the first indication from the Government that a scheme relating to those displaced through changes in primary industry is currently under review? If not, when was this information previously given? What are the details of the review? For instance, how many officers of his Department are engaged in this work? What is the status of these officers? Are there any retraining plans at last being formulated to assist the decentralisation of industry to help overcome the hard core, serious unemployment in country areas? 
At the Committee stage of this Bill after the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  had spoken the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  rose and made some remarks about a report. During the course of his remarks he pointed out the inadequacy of the information contained in that report in relation to the conclusions of the report. At this stage I merely want to say that this is precisely one of the main points that has been made by members of my Party during this debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Dury)Order! There is no provision under Standing Orders for a debate at this stage. The honourable member may make comments at the third reading stage. 
I do want to point out- 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  proposed: 
That  the question  be  now put. 
1 rise to participate briefly in this debate to add my views to those of honourable members on this side of the House who are protesting against this Liberal-Country Party Government's method of tariff making. With my colleagues I am totally dissatisfied with a number of aspects which have manifested themselves in the Customs Tariff Bill 1971. The Opposition has decided that the best method of highlighting its dissatisfaction is to vote against all stages of the Bill. This is not to say that we do not agree with some of the changes that have been introduced into this Parliament since 22nd May last and which are validated in the Bill. The honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  mentioned one particular case on behalf of his colleague, the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  earlier tonight. I know that the honourable member for Franklin will be participating in the debate during the committee stage even if there is no time for him to do so at this stage. 
There are other examples which we could, if we got down to the details of the Bill, bring before the House of areas where we approve of particular recommendations in the Bill. At the same time, we are very conscious of the fact that where tariffs have been reduced - I was referring to an increase in tariff when I mentioned the case which affects the honourable member for Franklin - time has shown that there nas not been great unemployment. But this is not why we are opposing the Bill. We want to highlight the whole method of tariff making. This brings me to the 4 principles which we consider must be fulfilled before we are content to support a Bill such as this one. The principles have been stated before. They have been stated again tonight by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  I believe that they are worth repeating in my own way. 
Firstly there is the question of the adequacy of the Tariff Board. Is it not a fact that the Board has thrown out requests and hints - I think one could almost say that if it were able to do so it would throw out demands - for more staff, more facilities with which to do the vital work it is given to do. To illustrate my point let me read from a question and answer which appears in Hansard of 6th April 1971. It is question No. 2865 of the questions on notice. The honourable member for Lalor asked: 
How many references for inquiry, upon which no report had been made, were held by the Tariff Board at 30th June 1970 and how many are still held at the present time. 
The answer is as follows: 
The number of references held by the Tariff Board upon which no report had been made at 30th June 1970, was 54. Of these 1 reference was subsequently withdrawn and 1 was superseded by a later reference. Of the remaining 52 references, 39 were still held by the Tariff Board as at 31st March 1971. 
The second part of the question reads as follows: 
How many of these references have been with the Board for longer than (a) 1 year, (b) 2 years, (c) 3 years, (d) 4 years and (e) more than 4 years. 
The answer reads: 
As at 31st March 1971, the number of these 39 references which had been with the Tariff Board for longer than (a) 1 year- 18, (b) 2 years - 9, (c) 3 years- 3, (d) 4 years - 2, (e) more than 4 years- 1 dated 12th October 1965. 
The third part of the question reads: 
When is it expected that reports will be made on these references. 
The answer is as follows: 
As at 31st March 1971, the stage of processing of these outstanding references was - 
Public hearings completed - 36 
Public hearings commenced - 2 
Public hearings pending - 1 
It is not possible to state when reports will be made on these references. 
This is an illustration of the fact that the Board has not the staff and facilities to be an adequate Board for the purposes for which it has been set up. It does not have the support of the Government to make us believe that it will have the staff and the facilities in the near future. Belatedly we learned in the much heralded statement given to the Parliament today that we are to get an extra - 9th - member for the Board. In addition to that, the  Chairman  will be authorised to appoint single member Boards to inquire into the simpler types of tariff cases. 
But this is not enough. It is the expertise in the backroom that is also required. The honourable member for Lalor has, i believe, already indicated some of the extra information which should always be given - not just sometimes, but always - with each one of these reports. This brings me to the second principle upon which the Australian Labor Party is prepared to fight in this matter of sensible tariff policy - namely the proper disclosure of information, to this Parliament and to the people of this country. There is not enough information being gathered by the Tariff Board let alone being given properly to the Parliament and thus to the people. Let me give examples of the sort of information which should be included in each one of the reports, not just an odd one here and there. Where costs are shown to be higher than they ought to be, let us have the details of why those costs are higher. This will necessitate more investigation and more research, but this information should be available to the Parliament and to the people of this country if such great decisions as to whether an industry is to survive, to contract or to expand, are to be made. 
Another principle concerns the level of imports at the present time of a particular commodity under discussion. We have a right to know these facts. Certainly we want to be assured that this sort of information has been taken into consideration by the Board when it makes its recommendations to the Government. Costs of production represent another area about which information should be given. We should receive information also about comparisons with other countries and, as the honourable member for Lalor mentioned in the course of his speech, about the number of firms in an industry. 
This brings me to the third principle which we uphold, that is, that plenty of notice should be given before the Government decides to contract an industry or to phase it out altogether. We are first and foremost a Party which believes in full employment. We are here to represent the lesser privileged people of this community. They are the ones who are hurt first by decisions such as this. The more privileged people, privileged perhaps in the sphere of education and in many other ways, can adapt themselves, can adopt new jobs and can move easily between places of employment on opposite sides of Australia. But the people who are hurt by so many of these decisions do not have these resources, this capital in the background, with which to adapt to change. The industries in which they work must be given time to contract and, indeed, the workers must be given time to move away to other sources of employment. 
The fourth principle is very closely linked with the matter I have just mentioned. It concerns the retraining of the workers who may be displaced by such changes. We tire the first to admit that such changes do not come about only by changes in tariffs. Indeed, we uphold the principle that there ought to be far more study of and far more teeth in restrictive trade practices legislation and far more ability to see that excess profits are not being made from such restrictive practices. These policies of ours may themselves be responsible for contraction or reduction in employment in certain industries, but together with changes in tariffs we want to see first and foremost a structure set up in Australia so that people will be protected when they have to move from one job to another. This does not just mean retraining; it means also the payment of a subsidy to those who are obliged to move their homes. It means also some payment for loss of income incurred between jobs and not the miserable unemployment benefit with which people who are out of employment have to endure at the present time. 
I am happy to support the Opposition's contention in this debate that these 4 principles must be followed before we are prepared to support tariff changes. We are obliged to see that the people we represent are properly looked after when changes must take place. We are not against such changes in principle. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  outlined a few of the reasons why change should take place. I am, of course, referring to technological changes and to the fact that in order to get a better growth rate in our economy there has to be a reallocation of resources. There are changes in tastes and changes in imports to this country. There may be over-production, sometimes in primary industries and sometimes in secondary industries, as related to demand. Change will always be applied in many areas in our country, but we must have the structures to protect people who are hurt by these changes before we can support their being brought about by artificial means such as changes in tariffs. I believe that the old arguments of free trade versus protection are out of date. Of course we must have protection. All of us are protectionists. We are concerned only at the level of protection. We realise that these levels must change from time to time, but firstly we must have the structure in order to protect those who need protection when these changes take place. 
Has the attention of the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs been drawn to allegations that the ConsulGeneral of the Polish People's Republic in Sydney has brought commercial pressure to bear on the publishers of the Polish language newspaper 'Polish Weekly' because of political content in that newspaper concerning workers' riots in Poland last December? Have investigations been made into these allegations, and if so, with what results? Does he agree that, although we have glaring examples of political views being put as news in Australian newspapers - I cite the Packer Press as one example - this should not condone overseas pressures being allowed to succeed where it is possible to prevent them? 
On this peaceful May afternoon I am declaring war on the financial management of this country. If we look around us in this House we at least find the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  at the table, one Minister on the front bench, one Liberal back bencher, 3 Country Party back benchers and a few back benchers on my side of the Parliament debating what is in effect a blank cheque to the Government. Hansard informs me that the Bill was brought down in this House at 2.37 p.m. on Thursday, the last day on which we sat. If we had sat on the following day, that is, 24 hours after the introduction of this Bill we would have been expected to come in and debate this blank cheque before we had had time to confer with our colleagues about it. Let me explain to those who do not know that in the meantime we have been back in our electorates dealing with electorate problems and therefore the same thing applies, namely, we have been unable to confer about this Bill. If I had had my way and had had the opportunity to confer with my colleagues, I would have recommended that we oppose all clauses of this Bill as a protest not only against the fact that we have to debate it so soon after it was presented in this House but also against the form of reporting on financial matters to this Parliament and therefore to the people of this country. 
Clearly, the way it is done is ludicrous. 1 suppose that out of the 185 members of this Federal Parliament - 125 in this chamber and 60 in the Senate - there would be about 10 who would know or understand what the papers before us mean and I would not be numbered amongst them, being a new member. If I may give my qualifications, I should be able to understand them. I have spent the whole of my career in accounting. I have an Economics degree. I have sat on the board of a savings bank and on the Municipal Tramways Trust in my own State of South Australia. 1 believe in budgeting - programmed budgeting and many of these aids to proper management. 1 have managed to help bring them in on other occasions. 
The other war I am declaring now is that I intend to stand and speak in these terms on every possible occasion so that papers are brought before us which can be understood by honourable members and which, therefore, will stimulate a number of them to speak about these Bills when they come before the Parliament. As a member of the Labor Opposition, I rose immediately after my friend and colleague the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  because nobody on the Government side of the. chamber was prepared to stand. The Treasurer left the chamber, but has now returned and I hope he will take up the points I mention. 
The first example of the- gobbledegook that goes on in financial reporting is to be found in the Budget Speech. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports quoted some of it. There is a very fine section at the end of the speech beautifully, headed The Budget and the Economy'. I will not quote that part again but as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports said, each year the Treasurer, whoever he is, makes something of the total expenditure of the Commonwealth, of the total receipts of the Commonwealth and of the surplus or the deficit that then results. This is fiscal policy. This is supposed to have some effect. In fact, everywhere else in the World it does have some effect. It is part of Government thinking as to how the economy is going to be controlled. If the economy is in an inflationary situation, perhaps we should use fiscal policy to control that situation. Similarly, if we have a certain amount of deflation, perhaps we should have a deficit. Here we make something of it in the Budget Speech and then conveniently forget about it. The next time that we had any sort of financial report to this Parliament - admittedly, I was not present at the time, being on an overseas trip, but I have since read it thoroughlywas when the previous Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  reported on the great cuts that he was going to make in expenditure. Speaking from memory I think they amounted to  $7 5m.  Already to that stage the increase in expenditure over the amount given in the Budget was $242m. That is one exam ple of the first nonsense, if I may call it that, in relation to this matter of. reporting to the Parliament. 
I am not giving this information necessarily in chronological order but another example of the stupidity and absurdity of the reporting of financial matters is to be found in the second paragraph of the second reading speech of the Treasurer relating to Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1970-71. He said: 
Although additional appropriations are being sought, actual expenditure will not exceed the amounts included in Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1970-71 by $120,968,000. 
This is the figure that the Government is now seeking approval from the Parliament to. spend. But that is not the figure that is needed over and above that, which was appropriated in Appropriation.Act' (No. 1). Let me assure the Treasurer that- 1, am not blaming him personally for this. I am merely exhorting him to be a new broom who will bring reasonable financial reporting to this nation. There are: no reasons I know of why adjustments cannot, be made in Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and Appropriation Bill (No. 4) in respect of appropriations in the Appropriation Act (No. 1) which are going to be underspent. This may require a change in legislation. The Treasurer can nod his head about if but if he is intent, as I believe he should be, on bringing some sensible financial reporting to this Parliament and to the nation, he can start doing things in this 'direction. Perhaps this would not be' his first priority but it is the sort of thing that should be done so that we will know where the finances of this country are heading- each year.   
There are many other examples  'of  these absurdities. We realise that each. year, perhaps not as much in some years as this year, Bills are brought before this Parliament to make changes for political reasons. For example, suddenly there was an increase of 50c in the pension whereas, really, another $4 or $5 was needed. However, for political reasons, because there was a new Prime Minister, Parliament was asked to increase the pension by 50c. Now, this expenditure is taken from the National Welfare Fund, as I think it is" called. This expenditure does not, as I understand it, appear in these documents ' arid makes another nonsense of the figures served up to us to this point. 
We want to know where this country is heading financially. We want to know what sort of budget surplus or deficit is going to be arrived at as at 30th June. We are sick and tired of relying only on this Government's monetary policies to cure the inflationary situation that exists in this country. We are sick and tired of hearing Treasurers and Prime Ministers say in this Parliament that the high interest rates are necessary in spite of their effect on housing in this country and the effect they are having on State budgets, resulting in inadequate hospitals and inadequate education appropriations around the country. These extra costs are put on the people because of this monetary policy. This Government has one cure - higher interest rates, or, to a lesser extent, control over the volume of money. We are sick and tired of relying only on this. There are other ways of ordering the finances of this country and one is by means of budgetary measures. 
The Government is making a nonsense of budget and fiscal policy by pretending in Parliament, in the second or third week of August, that it is using budgetary policy and then later in the financial year bringing down measures such as these Appropriation Bills (No. 3) and (No. 4) which we find are nothing but a black cheque to make up the difference, whatever it may be, on 30th June. When these Appropriation Bills come before Parliament they make a nonsense of the original strategy, if ever there was a strategy. These are blank cheques. In the case of this Loan Bil] 1971 the Government is asking us merely to pass a Bill through this Parliament to make an Act which will allow the Treasurer and the Treasury, as I understand it, to make up the difference between what is available cash-wise to pay for the expenditure of this country and what has not been collected in receipts. I repeat that this Bill is to make up the difference between what is being paid out and what is coming in by way of receipts. It is necessary if we are to pay the wages bills and this sort of thing. We really would not oppose the Bills because these things are necessary. If the Opposition did decide to oppose these Bills it would do so merely as a form of protest. 
I have spoken about simplifying the reporting to this country and I have spoken about making an effort to make the papers that come before us meaningful. 
May I turn to what is done in Canada in this respect. In Canada it is not only a fact that they try to make the Budget papers that come before parliamentarians more meaningful, so that there are more than 10 parliamentarians out of 185 - I think I am being optimistic in saying 10 out of 185 - who understand the papers; they also make an attempt to see that the man in the street understands what they are doing with the taxpayers' money. I am referring now to a document called 'How Your Tax Dollar is Spent', which is put out by the Canadian Government. One half of the booklet is written in English and the other half in French. It is put out by the Treasury Board of Canada and sets out the expenditure in the simplest terms. The introduction reads: 
Under our parliamentary system the Government of Canada is required each year to prepare for Parliament and the people of Canada a detailed outline of how it proposes to spend the money it will be collecting from the -taxpayers of the country. 
The document explains in great detail, in terms for the layman, what the Government of Canada is doing. Let me repeat again because I think it is worth repeating that we not only do not put out a document such as this so that the layman can understand such a policy; we do not put out a document so that parliamentarians can understand it. I will move on from that to have one last word about the way we should be heading, particularly as this is a Bill which, for some reason which the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  may be able to explain, is supposed to relate only to defence expenditure. Yet in fact it does not relate only to defence expenditure. As I have said, it makes up the deficit in cash transactions. It would be known outside government accounting as making up the deficit in a cash flow budget. Apparently in Government financing whatever the deficit, we make up for it by a Bill like this at the end of the financial year. For some reason, which I ask to be explained to me, it relates to defence expenditure. Not only do I ask the reason why but I also suggest that it is high time those charged with the task of accounting and reporting to this nation had a good look at another problem, if they are not doing so already, at programme budgeting. If they are doing this already they should get the Government to do something about seeing that programme budgeting is applied to this nation. What is programme budgeting? It means looking ahead and not working out things on an annual basis only - this is one of the factors - but also on a triennial basis if a particular project takes 3 years to complete. 
I would like to conclude my comments by saying that where these cash transactions are concerned each member of Parliament - certainly this member of Parliamentreceives a quarterly account or Treasury Information Bulletin. This is a very interesting document. However, I have discovered that some members of Parliament - I would like to know why only some and not all - receive another cash transaction document on a monthly basis. Perhaps publicly I can ask that not only I but all members of Parliament receive this on a monthly basis so that we all may understand these facts. I am referring to a document entitled 'Commonwealth Financial Transactions 19.0-71', which covers the 9 months to March 1971. To illustrate the point I made about better reporting to this Parliament and the nation, it seems to me that there is no reason why the Commonwealth Government should not follow the practices outside Parliament in large organisations of dividing the Budget for the various months of the financial year so that we have real comparisons. 
 At the moment this particular financial transaction budgeting is on a 12-monthly basis and we are looking at comparative figures for the 9 months to March 1971. I know this will cause extra work and I realise that cash receipts come in most unevenly through the year. I have asked questions in Parliament as to why wc cannot do something along the lines of the United Kingdom practice where Treasury receipts come in more evenly throughout the year. This would help the financial management of the country. While they do not come in at an even level perhaps there is no reason why the Treasury should not supply us - I am referring to receipts at the moment - with information on the 1970-71 Budget on a monthly basis. We will then realise at this time of the year that we must expect a lot more receipts because of businessmen paying their taxes in April, and because provisional tax is paid in April and May. There is a lot more to come in during those month's. When it comes to July, August and September not much is received other than from the PaY.asyouearn tax system but at the same time a large number of refund cheques are sent to the citizens of the nation. These ali affect the cash flow transactions of the country. The Treasury ought to have these figures. I assume that the ' Government makes up its Budget on a calendar monthly basis. Surely we can have details given to us on that basis showing how the cash transactions of this nation are faring in comparison with the Budget. I end on that note. I will take every possible opportunity to point out the ludicrous way in which these documents are served up to us and the lack of meaning in the documents. I hope it will eventually mean that we will think hard about this and that we will, not gat blank cheques put up to us on the spur of the moment as we have on this occasion. It will mean that a lot more members of Parliament will take notice of a Bill such as this. 
 I raise a point of order. I submit that the Minister is debating the Bill and not the subject before the Chair. 
Yes,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I second the amendment. In seconding the amendment I want to point out that, although the time now is 10 minutes past 2 on Thursday morning, we still have, according te the blue sheet, apparently another 6 hours of debate in front of us, which will take us through to 8 o'clock or later this morning. Honourable members will be expected to be back in the House for the next day of sitting at 10 o'clock this morning to debate, among other things, this Bill. The second reading speech that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has just delivered comprises 81 pages of foolscap. As was pointed out by my colleague, the honourable members for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  it took him about 20 minutes to read it. A number of tables were incorporated in Hansard. Hansard will probably not be printed in time for honourable members to examine these tables before the debate is held. In addition, if we are to do our duty properly and consider this legislation in the manner in which it should be considered, we should be getting in touch with, perhaps, the Under-Treasurer in the State from which we come in order to get his views on this legislation. This is what I intend to do. I hope to get in touch with not only the Under-Treasurer but also the Treasurer of my State to see whether the arrangements set out in the Treasurer's second reading speech are satisfactory to my State. 
Another point that 1 think is well worth mentioning is the complicated nature of this Bill. Because  Sir Henry  Bolte in Victoria put the cat among the pigeons concerning payroll tax and threatened not to pay it to the Commonwealth this Bill has become extremely complicated and will require far more attention than otherwise would have been required. These are only some of the reasons why it is my duty to second this proposition, -which seeks to ensure that we do not consider this Bill at a later hour this day - which is in fact what otherwise we would be doing - but that we consider the terms of the Bill in great detail and get in touch with those with whom we should be in touch before debating it. To show my bona fides I point out that I have already booked my passage back to Canberra from Adelaide on Monday night, in order to take part in the deliberations of this House next Tuesday. 
We have not heard one word of argument from honourable members opposite as to why they are not prepared to come back here next Tuesday. Is it because they do not believe that their place is in this House or is it because they do not want to face the Opposition in this House? I think it must be due to the second reason. Honourable members opposite can prove that it is not by agreeing to come back here next week. If the Government does not have enough business to debate next week in addition to complicated Bills like this one the Opposition will bring up for debate in this House plenty of matters which are of concern to this country. Honourable members will realise that I do not want to delay the House any longer but the points I have put forward are worthy of deliberation and I hope that the House will agree to adjourn this matter until next week. 
Here we have one of the paradoxes of this Parliament. At a time when the nation is reading on the front pages of the newspapers about what is going on here and is seeing on its television screens that there is a great deal of difference of opinion between the Government and the Opposition as to how long the Parliament should sit and how long we should take to push 20 Bills through this Parliament, material such as the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2), which does not draw sufficient people to fill the galleries or to which not many honourable members are listening in the chamber, is being passed by the Parliament. To use the sort of language that my children use, it is not groovy material. However, I congratulate the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  for the detailed way in which they have tackled this Bill. 
I realise that they have had only about 2 hours sleep, because that is all the sleep I have been able to have in the last 36 hours. This Bill is not the sort of material that is easy to absorb. To do so requires wet cloths around the head. I am not going to tackle it in such a detailed way tonight because I want to look at the principles of such a Bill. I suggest that the sorts crf things that have been going on in this Parliament today must lead thinking people to realise that the forms of the Parliament ought to be looked at. Such a decision can also be arrived at when we look at a Bill like this. It is ridiculous to think that of a Parliament of 185 members - 125 in this House and 60 in the Senate - we can expect only 10 to understand the workings of a detailed tax Act and to debate it in depth. It is not possible to give the Bill the sort of consideration it ought to be given. 
We should move the Committee stage of a Bill such as this outside the Parliament and bring in experts in the taxation field in the various capital cities of Australia to give us the benefit of their thinking as to whether the clauses which in the Bill will fulfil the purposes of the Government, let alone fulfil the purposes which would serve this country best. This is a complicated Bill. It is made even more complicated by the fact that  Sir Henry  Bolte has thrown out a challenge to the Commonwealth Government and has said: 'Look, you are not going to receive pay-roll tax from me until this is tested in the High Court'. The Commonwealth Government is using this Bill to make sure that if  Sir Henry  Bolte will not pay the pay-roll tax that he should be paying, the Government can deduct it. I beg your pardon; I have mixed it up with another Bill that will be debated later tonight. This is the sort of complication we get in this Parliament at this stage after honourable members have had only 2 hours sleep. It is no wonder that I am getting that Bill confused with another. 
The Income Tax Act is an absurd Act, as are the clauses that are being brought in at this stage to close 1 loophole. I repeat what the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and the honourable member for Banks- have said about the principles of this Bill. We cannot quarrel with the fact that at the moment an Australian borrower is. at . a disadvantage in this country compared with an overseas borrower who wants to borrow money from, say, the United Kingdom. We cannot oppose the Bills on those lines but we can with all propriety raise certain questions about them. The first question is: What will this cost the country? We were not told in the second reading speech how much a measure such as this will cost our nation. I know, because it is another problem that has come before me today, that over a period of 5 years the Commonwealth Government will allocate the measly sum of $5m to subsidise the States in building nursing homes. My own State of South Australia will receive $465,000 of that amount over 5 years. I have heard on the grapevine - I have not been told this directly and I have not been able to find out through a proper committee system such as we should have here - that this Bill in one year alone will mean a loss of revenue of $10m. 
That is the sort of information I want when I am trying to decide whether the legislation is correct for this country. 
I do not want to make this a party political issue, but  1  believe that the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan),  who is one of the few honourable members in this House who takes an interest in financial measures, wants such information as well. Perhaps he and  1  could sit on a committee of this Parliament set up to consider a complicated measure such as this one and bring in personnel from the Department of the Treasury, who sit here and give advice to the Treasurer - he is not even in the House for this debate - and who could advise us. I hope that we would also call in  Mr Eric  Risstrom of the Taxpayers Association of Victoria,  Mr Harold  Irving from the Taxation Institute and a lot of people with whom I have been associated, being on the South Australian Council of the Taxation Institute. They are far better qualified than I am, because I have been spending my time in other fields of taxation and also in politics. We should have far better qualified people who would be able to give an expert view on the complicated clauses in this Bill. 
Another point I want to make is that surely we should question why we are encouraging foreign investment in this way at this time. I do not want my political opponents to jump immediately to the conclusion that  1  am against foreign investment in this country. I realise, as do my colleagues in the Labor Party, that foreign investment under some conditions is very necessary in this country, particularly when that foreign investment brings in know-how for the proper development of this country. But this is not that sort of foreign investment. This is foreign investment of a fixed interest type. It may be that this has advantages. This means that the foreign investment is not necessarily taking over Australian companies. It may be only of a temporary nature. I am sure that in the committee of this House which should be deliberating on this Bill and which would bring in from outside sources information to help us in our deliberations on this Bill, we would receive more information as to whether this was the particular time in the history of Australia's economy when we should be encouraging foreign investment. 
It occurs to me that perhaps this is not the time because at present our balance of payments is in an extremely healthy situation. Indeed all of us, particularly those on this side of the House who are particularly nationalistic in our outlook when it comes to Australian affairs, realise '.hat foreign investment is creating a yoke for our necks in the years to come because that foreign investment must mean divident or interest payments in years to come and we do not know how our balance of payments will be then. 
Those are reasons why we on the Opposition side, having been given only a week's notice and not having been able to discuss the Bill amongst ourselves let alone with outsiders so as to obtain the extra information that we want, say that, as Australians are disadvantaged at the present time, wc cannot oppose the Bill; but we are far from being enthusiastic about it. We recognise that this Parliament is not being used properly. No wonder there is cynicism in this country about what is going on in this Parliament, when the debating seems to take place in so much of a vacuum and without sufficient information for honourable members to make up their minds. 
I apologise for my confusion earlier concerning pay-roll tax but I think I have a good excuse, bearing in mind the way in which  20  Bills are being rushed through this House. One of those Bills to which I will be directing myself later on tonight came in only at  2  o'clock this morning. I apologise for my confusion in speaking about the payroll tax, which comes under the States Grants Bill. However, the principles are much the same. We ought to be looking at this Bill in far greater detail. We ought to be able to call upon the expert advisers in the Treasury to advise us in an all-party committee of this House, rather than debating the matter in a vacuum as we are now doing. I thank my  2  colleagues for giving me an opportunity to speak for a few minutes in this debate and to put forward a few ideas. I congratulate them on the detailed work they have done. 
Supporters of the Government, if any of them have an interest in this legislation, have stood back and allowed the Opposition to make a contribution on this Bill tonight. ButI am sure that Government supporters do not believe that that ought to be the position, and neither does this member for Adelaide. I would have liked  to have heard from the honourable member for McMillan and the honourable  member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  who is not even in the House but who is another chartered accountant. The honourable member for Curtin ought to have some contribution to make on tax Bills, such as this. I would have liked to have heard  those honourable members speak on this Bill and to have had some debate, even in the limited way in which this Parliament is working at present. We are working under the disadvantage of 20 Bills being forced through this Parliament in 2 sitting days, with our staying up until 6.20 this morning: Some of those Bills were introduced only at 2 o'clock this morning and are still on the list for debate later tonight. I hope that puts my contribution in perspective. 
J rise at this late hour when two more Bills listed on the notice paper are still to be discussed tonight, to record my disappointment that this is the second Bill of a finan cial nature that has come before the House in the dying hours of this sessional period on which no Government member has seen fit to talk. Earlier when we were debating a series of income tax Bills, other than from the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  who made one contribution when one minute was left before the guillotine was due to fall we had no contribution from the Government benches. Again in the debate on this States Grants Bill we have had no contribution from Government members. It is indicative of the way in which the business of this House is being conducted, particularly in relation to these important measures. 
As the honourable member for Barton says, the Government members are not even in the chamber, or very few of them are here. I want to make two points about payroll tax. First of all 1 support wholeheartedly what has been said by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  I think that most members of this Parliament have been circularised by an alderman of the Hobart City Council. My reaction to that circular was that the payroll tax that is levied on local government authorities must form part of a new deal in this country in Commonwealth, State and local government authority financial relationships. This Bill we have before us is just another example of the ricocheting from one crisis to another which is the story of Commonwealth-State relationships, and we hardly even get the chance to discuss the sad position of local government finances in this Parliament unless the matter is brought forward as a matter of public importance by the Labor Opposition. 
I take this opportunity to say those few words relating to payroll tax and to mention one other point in relation to the same subject. I note that in the opening paragraph of his second reading speech the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  mentions South Australia - quite correctly, I agree - as being one of the States which are challenging the legality of the imposition of payroll tax on State concerns. If my memory serves me correctly, the South Australian Government has merely followed the lead of  Sir Henry  Bolte in this matter to the extent that, if the High Court of Australia does come to the decision that the imposition is invalid, this decision will apply to all States. Indeed, South Australia should be joined in that action. I want to point out that the Labor Government of South Australia has not taken the initiative in this matter. It did not want to take any initiative in this matter. 
I consider that the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Don  Dunstan, to be about the only person in a senior government position in Australia who is talking any sort of sense when it comes to a realistic idea of how Commonwealth, State and local government authority financial relationships ought to be run at this time in our history. He is, of course, talking about co-operative federalism and more or the sort of relationship that there is between certain ministries at the Commonwealth level and the State level. I am referring to such meetings as meetings of the Australian Minerals Council, when the Minister for National Development gets together with the Mines Ministers for the various States, and meetings of the Attorneys-General on company law and in these sorts of areas. There is room for far more co-operation of this sort and for closer and far more formal ties of this sort in this country so that the planning can be done together and not separately. 
The present situation is that the Commonwealth decides on a rather ad hoc basis what is to be done. Before Commonwealth representatives go to Premiers Conferences and Loan Council meetings the Commonwealth has really made the decisions. But with a bit of window dressing they make it appear that the State Premiers partake in these decisions when this is not really so. The Commonwealth representatives go to these meetings and hand out to the States more or less on a plate what they have already decided to give them and the States then have to go back and grapple with their great problems. A lot of those problems have been caused by the Commonwealth itself. In saying that I am referring to the migration scheme. I am not knocking the scheme in itself, but of course it has caused great needs in the fields of education, housing, health and hospitals, urban renewal and a lot of other areas which are being poorly treated in this country at the present time and which are causing great hardship particularly for the lower income groups of our country. It is only those two points that I wanted to talk about briefly tonight. 
I express the hope that in the future there will be more formal arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States and that these arrangements will include local government authorities. We are supposed to be in the first year of a new deal. It was the last Premiers Conference which set the pattern and the formula for the distribution to the States for the next 5 years or maybe the next 3 years. I am speaking from memory. Yet already we have these crises of the States being forced to find alternative funds because they cannot raise money through receipts duty tax, and we have the 6 per cent national wage case causing greater problems. I hope that from the year 1971-72 onwards we will have more formal relationships and that we will not be ricocheting from one crisis to another in this field and that we will not have Bills such as this one being brought up in the dying, hours of the sittings. 
I, too, have a question to direct to the Minister for the Interior. Is it a fact firstly, that the Northern Territory Administrator,  Mr Chaney,  delivered yesterday to the Northern Territory Legislative Council a letter stating that the Minister bad requested the Council to remain in session so that a Government Bill to increase stamp duties could be introduced and passed; secondly, that the Minister at 8.45 p.m. last night did not know that he had made this request; thirdly, that a Canberra printer's proof of this 41-page Bill was presented to the Council's business committee only on Friday afternoon last when there remained only 3 arranged days of sitting; and, fourthly, that this procedure of attempting to introduce this Bill was entirely contrary to all established Standing Orders and procedures of the Northern Territory Legislative Council? What is the reason for the only local House of Parliament in the Northern Territory being humiliated in this way? 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The bumble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Increase in the maintenance allowance for students. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
That speech from the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  was up to his usual standard - an extremely poor one - dealing with personalities and attempting to kick the Communist can. I almost said 'kiss the Communist can' because after so many years of similar speeches from the Government benches Government supporters still think that this sort of thing will work. But the speech deserves no more comment from me because we are debating tonight a motion to take note of a ministerial statement on the subject of international affairs pre sented to this House last Wednesday, to which motion has been moved an amendment. I mention that in case we have all forgotten it after the speech from the honourable member for Griffith. The amendment reads in the following terms: 
That the following words be added to the motion: but this house deplores the conduct of the Prime Minister in attempting to narrow debate on the question of Australia's future diplomatic and trade relations with the People's Republic of China to a personal and partisan level and for basing his approach on incorrect information'. 
If there is one thing to be said for the speech of the honourable member for Griffith he did follow his leader in basing his speech on a personal and partisan level and his approach was, of course, based on incorrect information. But I want to remind the House that the 5 subjects of the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  were China. Indo-China, Japan, the South Pacific and Pakistan. I shall have time, of course, to mention only a few of these subjects, but firstly let me turn to China. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  entered this debate tonight to make, as I have said, a narrow, partisan and personal attack on the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  under this heading of China. The Government Parties think that they are on to a winner in these personal attacks. Fear has won them the elections since 1949. If they can stimulate fear in the Australian people on the subject of China, in addition to the fear of the unions and the fear of demonstrations supporting the United Nations resolutions against South African sporting tours of our country, this will support their narrow, partisan cause whatever harm it is doing to our nation at the same time. 
Let me state quite clearly that the Leader of the Opposition has not only the support of each one of us on this side of the House but also, I believe, of the vast majority of the Australian people in the initiatives that he and the other members of the Australian Labor Party team took in the way of breaking down the Bamboo Curtain. He and the ALP team he led to China have done a splendid job for our country. There is no future whatsoever for this world of ours while we remain in our separate blocs fearing each other and failing to communicate with each other. My colleagues and I were asked during the recent South African rugby union tour of this country: 'Why do you oppose' - nonviolently, I hasten to add, because violence defeats its own purpose - 'this South African rugby tour of this country and at the same time not oppose the visits of the Russian soccer team and the Moscow Circus or other exchanges with totalitarian regimes behind the Iron or Bamboo Curtains?' The answer is a simple one. 
With a country like South Africa, the main policy of the Government of which - namely apartheid - we deplore, there is no problem of communication. Theirs is an open country with, indeed, a culture very similar to ours - a sporting culture. The way to bring pressure on these people so that they will force new attitudes on their Government is to cut them off from the world of international sport. There are many, many examples of how this policy is working in South Africa today. I break off here to pay my tribute to all those who demonstrated in a peaceful way; those who made these sacrifices and who attempted so hard to curb the extremists who, I repeat, defeat their own purpose by alienating the population by means of their violence. These reasonable, sensible demonstrators have salvaged the reputation of our country in the eyes of most people of the world because most people of the world are non-racist in their attitude. These same peaceful protesters may have saved us from being cast out of the Olympic family; I believe we are after all to be invited to participate in the next Olympic Games. 
But let me come back to China, indeed to the question of our attitude towards all totalitarian regimes behind the Iron and Bamboo Curtains. Here the tactics must be quite different. Here our only hope is to break down the curtains and to have as many exchanges of all kinds as possible. I had the opportunity to visit 2 countries allegedly behind the Iron Curtain on my way back from a parliamentary delegation to the Council of Europe earlier this year. The 2 countries were Yugoslavia and Russia. I say 'allegedly behind the Iron Curtain' because there is some doubt in my mind whether Yugoslavia is behind the Iron Curtain. No visa is required to visit that country today. Over 4 million tourists visited the Dalmatian coast and other parts of Yugoslavia during 1971. The point I want to make is that there are vast differences between the attitudes of the Yugoslavs and the Russians, not only of the governments but also of the people themselves because the curtain is coming down fast with the one but more slowly with the other. 
Exchanges with these countries can do nothing but good and it is in this context that we want to see the visit of the Leader of the Opposition and his team to China. They have done a tremendous amount of good in opening up that country to Australia and indeed to the world. The Prime Minister in his partisan attitude this evening talks about normal diplomatic exchanges and denigrates the way this visit was carried out. I point out that at the same time he is denigrating the visit of  Mr Kissinger  on behalf of the  President  of the United States of America and indeed denigrating what  Mr Nixon  intends to do later this year or in the early part of next year, lt is a spurious attitude for the Prime Minister to take about diplomatic conduct when exchanges of top personnel such as took place in this visit of the Leader of the Opposition have of course been going on for years. I do not want to suggest that I support the foreign policies of  Mr Dulles  but it was the way in which he carried out foreign affairs and there was no criticism of that from government supporters at the time he was doing it. I repeat that this narrow partisan speech we heard from the Prime Minister tonight was nothing more than a personal attack, and for the most part altogether forgetting the issues involved. In talking about a 2-China policy let me make it quite clear that in my personal view if this were a perfect world it would be more satisfactory if Taiwan could be recognised as a second China. But I point out that it is because of the policies of this present Liberal-Country Party Government, believing that there has only been one China and supporting only one China in the United Nations for the last 22 years, that we have been left in this most difficult position. Nevertheless I would hope that even at this stage we might be able to point out to the world and to our own people in particular that it is merely 2 million refugees, among a population of 14 million in Taiwan, who are providing the regime in that country, and that there are 12 million indigenes in that island who have not been given self determination in any way so far as we can ascertain from the information available to us in this country. The first step will be to ensure that the other 12 million get a form of government which they desire. Who knows - they may vote overwhelmingly to join the People's Republic of China and save us the difficult choice which we are left with in deciding whether to continue with the policy that this Government has perpetrated to date, that there is only one China. 
If the only way we can bring the People's Republic of China, mainland China, into the family of nations is to recognise only the government of that country - and this is not to say that we are going to recognise any forceful takeover of Taiwan - then we must make this difficult choice. Only if we manage to establish lines of communication with this country can we break down the curtains which exist in the world and bring greater hope for peace for mankind. 
 As I said earlier, for 22 years it has recognised one China and that is the China which exists on the island of Taiwan at the present time. Turning to Vietnam I point out that it was my privilege when returning from the parliamentary delegation visit to the Council of Europe to visit that war torn country. Like my colleagues on this side of the House, I greeted with a sigh of relief the statement by the Prime Minister last week that we are at last to withdraw our troops from that country and most of them, thank God, by Christmas. 
In my visit to Vietnam it was clear from the comparisons given by my colleagues who had been there earlier that the country was far more peaceful and one could drive in an unprotected car down the road from Saigon to Nui Dat where our troops were stationed. I made this journey with the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  and a couple of staff members from the Australian Embassy in Saigon. Although the honourable member for Kingston and myself had believed stories told by people such as the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  that this conflict had been won, it did not take us long to meet some of the Vietnamese leaders of the peace groups and to learn that there was an uneasy peace in that country. I believe that the comment by the Prime Minister in his statement announcing the withdrawal of our troops from Vietnam, to the effect that the conflict was being won, that Vietnamisation had taken over and that we could expect the government of Thieu and his successors to continue in control, was probably nonsense. Nobody can foretell what will happen in Vietnam, but I believe that those responsible for our foreign policy are in for a shock. This Government should be prepared to recognise the fact that there are still many supporters of the Vietcong, the partisans, in that country. 
The only clear impression I had from my visit to Vietnam was that we had no business ever to be there. If the regime of Ho Chi Minh and his successors ever can take over in a country that has always been divided, where war lords have fought with each other, and is able to bring about peace, then this will be a form of regime which may equate with the sort of government that there is in Yugoslavia. What a mistake we make in believing that Communism is some monolithic thing. How different is the Communism of Yugoslavia from the Communism of Russia. How different the Communism of China could be from the Communism of Vietnam if Ho Chi Minn's successors take over in that country. We on this side greet with relief the statement that our troops are coming out. 
In reply to the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  I say that if ever I. wanted to choose between living in North Vietnam or South Vietnam I would choose to live under the regime in South Vietnam. But I do not have to make that choice, nor should anyone here have to make such a choice. We should leave this choice to the people of Vietnam. We must realise that we had no business in getting involved in this conflict. I would like to move on to other subjects which the Minister for Foreign Affairs referred to in his ministerial statement on international affairs and 1 would also like to touch on the speech of the right honourable member for Higgins, the former Prime Minister and Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton). 
I present the following petition: 
Te the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors of the State of South Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That Charles Martin, a 24-year-old graduate in building technology is in Cadell Prison, in South Australia for failure to comply with the National Service Act, an Act which offends the conscience of many electors who are not directly touched by its provisions. 
That his failure to comply with the Act was done as a matter of conscience, and that his imprisonment must therefore cause concern to all electors who oppose the National Service Act, and the decision to send conscripted troops to Vietnam. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will repeal the National Service Act, and cause Charles Martin, and all others imprisoned under it, to be released. 
And our petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 27) per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is customs duty of up to 471 per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales lax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
1 support the remarks of the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory. I am sure every man of conscience in this place will feel the frustration that the honourable member has felt in this battle he is waging. I too noted what I can only call the deceit of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  representing the Attorney-General, in the remarks that he made on Friday afternoon. 
I withdraw the word deceit'. On the spur of the moment I could not think of the right word. What the Minister said was a misrepresentation of the facts. He suggested that the parole board had to be a full time parole board. Only a couple of weeks ago in Adelaide I met the members of the parole board in 
South Australia, who are not full time members, and at the same time met a visiting church man from the Church of Scotland in Edinburgh, who was the  chairman  of the parole board in Scotland.  His  was also a part time position. 
I rose tonight to refer to the subject raised by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  In fact, I would have tried to get the call after the honourable member spoke had I not expected the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock),  who was at the table, at least to show concern for this matter and tell us the Government's view on these 2 young men, Geoffrey Mullens' and Charles Martin, who are in gaol. The honourable member for Reid is particularly interested in Geoffrey Mullens. I am particularly interested in Charles Martin because when he was put in gaol he was a constituent of mine. I visited him in Yatala gaol soon after that. I have been on cavalcades to the Cadell training centre, 120 miles from Adelaide, when so many people from Adelaide visited him there. 
As soon as we learned by way of an answer to a question asked in the Senate that the Government would, to. use the words of the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  and the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  consider appropriate submissions - if that was not the term used it was some similar term - I contacted officers of the Prisons Department in South Australia and asked them to request Charles Martin to make an appropriate submission for his release from gaol. Everybody who has learned of his reply to my suggestion can have nothing but admiration for it because he said that on no account would he apply to the McMahon Government or any other Liberal-Country Party government for his release. So I have taken it upon myself to apply on behalf of the people of conscience in this nation for that release. He was gaoled on 26th September 1970. If the sentence is reduced by favour of the Governor-General to the period of 18 months which people are obliged to serve in national service and with a. remission of one-third of the sentence he would be due to come out of gaol on 25th September 1971. I put the case on that ground and on the ground of the more compelling reasons that the honourable member for Reid has mentioned - the fact that these 2 lads I have already mentioned, another 4 who have served gaol sentences and the other 12 whose names the honourable member for Reid mentioned who have been in and out of gaol but who have not been put there permanently, have been used as an example to the other 43,000 in the community. This just is not justice. There are only 2 in gaol at the present time. The 4 others who have spent any length of time in gaol have been released. 
It is about time the Government tried to redress this shocking situation it has created by division and divisiveness in our community and at least made this gesture to the only 2 lads who are serving in gaol at the present time. I want it to be made known that I was expecting the Minister for the Army to answer these representations, as he was sitting at the table at the time. That is why I did not rise in my place earlier. I will be asking  Senator Cavanagh  and other honourable senators in another place who do not have the frustration that honourable members have in this House experience because they have there the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  a senior officer of the Government, to place this matter of when we might receive a reply to this most serious question before  Senator Greenwood  day after day. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors of the State of South Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Charles Martin, a 24 year old graduate in Building Technology is in Cadell Prison, in South Australia for failure to comply with the National Service Act, an Act which offends the conscience of many electors who are not directly touched by its provisions. 
That his failure to comply with the Act was done as a matter of conscience, and that his imprisonment must therefore cause concern to all electors who oppose the National Service Act, and the decision to send conscripted troops to Vietnam. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will repeal the National Service Act, and cause Charles Martin, and all others imprisoned under it, to be released. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned electors of the State of South Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That Charles Martin, a 24 year old graduate in Building Technology is in Cadell Prison, in South Australia for failure to comply with the National Service Act, an Act which offends the conscience of many electors who are not directly, touched by its provisions. 
That his failure to comply with the Act was done as a matter of conscience, and that his imprisonment must therefore cause concern to all electors who oppose the National Service Act, and the decision to send conscripted troops to Vietnam. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will repeal the National Service Act, and cause Charles Martin, and all others imprisoned under it, to be released. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I claim to have been misrepresented in the statement just made by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt).  I was not misreported in what I said. I went back to the Hansard report of what the Minister said, and I wish to point out to the House that in his opening statement in answer to my question he said only this: 
Firstly, I refute the statement by the honourable member that 1 did not know about this matter. 
He was not answering in particular the inference in my question that the Administrator of the Northern Territory had used the Minister's name without his authority. In fact, he went on to be more specific and he said: 
I have been in contact- 
I suggested that the Minister's statement as reported in Hansard is completely misleading to the House. 
asked the Minister for 
Social Services, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that in the case of a partner in, say, a farming partnership the partner, when applying the means test for the purposes of assessing eligibility for an age pension, has included in bis assessment not only his share of the value of the partnership but also his annual income from the partnership, even in those cases where he is a sleeping partner being too old for work in the partnership and living away from the farm. 
If so, is this the only case where there is included in the means test assessment not only property but also income from that same property. 
Is it a fact that in the case of a bank account or other investments only the value of the bank account or other investments is included in the means test assessment and not also the interest or dividends from that type of property. 
Is it a fact that a clear line of distinction can be made between (a) those who are working partners living on or near the property, contributing to the profits of the partnership by their efforts and usually receiving a partner's salary before the profits of the partnership are divided and (b) those who are sleeping partners who have merely an investment in the partnership. 
If so, will he take action to correct this apparent anomaly. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
Is there at present a ship of the Royal Australian Navy named after the city of Adelaide; if not, why not. 
How many RAN ships have been named HMAS Adelaide. 
Over what period was each of these ships in commission. 
How does the total number of years during which these ships were in commission compare with the respective totals for HMAS Sydney, HMAS Melbourne, HMAS Brisbane, HMAS Perth and HMAS Hobart. 
On what date was the first of each of these ships commissioned. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Division of Adelaide respectfully showeth: 
That the determination as to which young men are required to undergo compulsory military service under the National Service Act 1951- 1968 is arrived at by a ballot system, based upon arbitrary grounds as to their date of birth. 
And that this procedure providing for selection by a method of chance is an unfair and arbitrary imposition on the human rights of a minority and discriminates against certain of the young male persons in the community in favour of others solely by reason of their respective dates of birth. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Section Twenty-six of the National Service Act 1951-1968 be repealed. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Has he read and/or heard of the views of Professor Ehrlich, an eminent ecologist, that, with the present growth in world population and taking into consideration the present known incapacity of the world to produce the necessary protein food, energy, etc. to support this population, the world is set on a disaster course? 
Does he realise that these views are causing great concern in the community? Will he use the vast resources of the Commonwealth Government to appraise these views and either contradict them or notify the House as to how he can appropriately alter Government policy, and Government leadership in the world, to take into account the views of Professor Ehrlich? 
One of the many disadvantages in our method of working in this Parliament is the amount of notice honourable members are given of Bills coming before them for the second reading debate. I want to place on record again that there was no prior warning given on Friday when honourable members were here that this Bill was coming on today. My own circumstances are that I arrived from my electorate of Adelaide at 2 p.m. today and went straightinto question time. It was not until the end of question time - 3.30 p.m., 1 hour ago - that 1 knew that this Bill was to come on. I say this to give plenty of warning to the honourable member who will follow me. the new Assistant Minister, the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson),  who will assist the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme),  that he may have to speak rather earlier than he expected. Frankly I wanted to make a substantial contribution to this debate but because we in this place ricochet from one problem to another, too little time has been allowed us to deal with this problem. 
The Opposition has moved an amendment to the Bill as follows: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted because it does not provide for (a) the severance of the Postmaster-General's Department from the control of the Public Service Board and (b) the application of special telephone charges in those areas designated for accelerated development by agreement between the Commonwealth and any State and its Authorities'. 
Not only has the Opposition moved that amendment at the second reading stage but also, if the amendment is not carried, it will oppose the second reading of the Bill for very clear and proper reasons, which are the same as the reasons for my Party's opposition to all the Budget recommendations. This Bill is merely part of a very bad Budget and will add to the inflationary situation in our country, which situation the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has made paramount, he says, in the provisions of the Budget. 
The first part of the amendment relates to the severance of the PostmasterGeneral's Department from the control of the Public Service Board. Since the last debate on this subject 2 very good articles have appeared in theAustralian Financial Review' on the subject of the Australian Post Office. The first article began as follows: 
Heavily, burdened by its responsibility for the operation of not only Australia's postal service but also its ever expanding telecommunications network, the Australian Post Office has become fat with full-time staff now well in excess of 100,000. 
This makes it Australia's biggest single employer of labour (it comprises some 47 per cent of the whole Commonwealth Public Service). 
It is also Australia's biggest business, biggest Government department, biggest provider of utility services and one of the biggest consumers of public finance. 
It also has some of this country's biggest management problems. 
These are reflected in its financial statement for the year ending June 1970- 
Wecould add also for the year ending June 1971- which reveals that, despite a continuing improvement in the profitability of its telecommunications sector, the APO recorded only a marginal profit for the year. 
That refers to the year 1970. Of course, the Post Office recorded a loss in 1971. In an enormous organisation like this, the management problems are large. I have had the opportunity to work as a chartered accountant in small firms. I have spent my days not only as a professional accountant but also in commerce and industry. 1 have also worked in large firms. In many organisations efficiency is not related to whether that organisation is in the public or the private sector. Often it is related to size. There is an optimum size for all organisations. The Post Office which, as I have quoted, is the largest organisation or business undertaking in Australia, is too big, particularly in regard to personnel, when its responsibilities are added to those of the rest of the Commonwealth Public Service. 
The amendment is quite dogmatic when it states that the Opposition wants the Bill to be withdrawn and re-drafted to provide for the severance of the PostmasterGeneral's Department from the control of the Public Service Board. But the amendment does not close the door on the severance being into 2 separate corporations, with the postal services on the one hand and the telecommunications services on the other. Anybody who has studied the accounts of the Post Office knows that, for the most part, the telecommunications services are paying their own way and that the great claim for extra income is for the postal services. If we can break down the Post Office into these separate units we can have not only better management and a better spirit amongst those who work in the Post Office, but also a lot more clear thinking on what postal services should and should not be subsidised by the rest of the community. 
If we were able to study the accounts of a separate corporation dealing with postal services as closely as we should, we would note that the reasons for the deficit relate not only to interest charges but also to the fact that the Post Office provides welfare services and other very necessary services for the community generally. I refer to the educational services in the community. There is no doubt that at the moment the rest of the users of the Post Office are subsiding the educational services of the Post Office, as far as I can see. Bulk mail containing educational material which is being disseminated throughout the community, and which should be disseminated throughout the community at a subsided rate, because it is a good educational feature, ought to be costed separately so that it can be argued quite clearly that this should be subsidised by the taxpayer and not by the other users of the Post Office. 
Another benefit of the postal services, and that derives also from the telecommunications services, is decentralisation. If we had proper accounting in separate smaller units we would be able to see much more clearly just what the community is spending on decentralisation. I do not say that decentralisation is wrong. Indeed, it is a very firm plank in the platform of the Australian Labor Party. We ought to be working steadily in this direction. But the other users of the Post Office should not be subsidising this decentralisation; the taxpayers should be subsidising it. Another aspect of postal services which is subsidised by the users of the Post Office is the defence service. This should .be brought out clearly in the accounts of the Post Office. The taxpayers and not the . other users of the Post Office should be paying for this sort of thing. 
The Opposition continually raises the subject, of breaking down the Post Office into separate units so that these issues can be brought out much more clearly than they are at the moment, When I referred to decentralisation I could well have mentioned the second aspect, of the amendment, namely, the application of special telephone charges in those areas designated for accelerated development by agreement between the Commonwealth and any State and its authorities. This goes to prove the point that I made earlier about the importance with which the Opposition views the decentralisation aspects of the Post Office. We ought to provide more for decentralisation and see that it is costed separately so that it is not the other users of the Post Office who are subsidising it. 
Let me refer also to the interest charges of the Post Office. If I had had time in this debate I would have quoted from the current affairs bulletin put out by the Adult Education Department of the University of Sydney in which it is argued clearly by economists - not on emotional grounds at all - that it is wrong that where so much of the capital of the Post Office has been provided out of taxation revenue in earlier years, that capital is still bearing interest charges. My argument, which I will not canvass in any great depth here, is that the Post Office cannot be immune from all interest charges. If we are to have proper accounting, a rate of interest must be charged on money that is borrowed for this organisation, but not where that money was accumulated out of past profits or revenue. There should be much more sophistication in the allocation to the Post Office of interest charges. I think I am right in saying that the interest charged to the Post Office in the financial year completed on 30th June 1971 was $141. 8m. Honourable members can imagine just what a burden this is in the operations of the Post Office when a deficit of between $2m and $3m is . talked about. Honourable members can imagine just what an impact that charge has had on Post Office accounts. 
What is the result of all this, what I call bad accounting, bad management and Bad policy on the part of the Government which has not carried out any of those things that the Australian Labor Party has advocated for so long? It is a list of increased charges inflicted on the people of this country. Let me read some of them: 
The. Government proposes to increase the 3 basic telephone rentals of $47, (31, and $23 by $8, $6 and 14 respectively. 
Service connection fee to rise by SIO to $50. 
Local telephone calls will increase from 4c. to 4.75c wilh a corresponding increase in trunk line charges. 
Increased charges for the installation or renewal of miscellaneous items of telecommunication equipment: 
Telex call charges will increase from 5c to 6c for each meter registration. 
Those are the charges in relation to the telecommunications side only. 
I turn to the increased charges in relation to the Post Office. These are: 
The basic letter rate will be Increased from 6c to 7c for the first ounce. 
Parcel rates on the average will bc increased by 10 per cent for domestic and 20 per cent for overseas services. 
Overseas airmail letter rates will rise by Se per half ounce (2c in the case of New Zealand). 
Aerogrammes will increase by 2c from 10c to 12c. 
Increased charges are proposed for registered post and certified mail. 
That is a list of the increased charges proposed in respect of Post Office services. 
We are debating at this time not only Post Office charges but also broadcasting and television charges. Another list of increases applies to these services. We can be grateful for the fact that, as I understand it, at least the charges to- pensioners have not been increased. But that concession does not apply to telephone rentals in respect of which the charges to pensioners have been increased. Is it any wonder why We, in the Opposition - if our amendment is not accepted, which I suppose will be the case - will be opposing this Bill wholeheartedly? 
I join with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports in congratulating the Postmaster-General on his long service as Postmaster-General. This may be the last Budget debate in which he will participate. He may be here next year, but that depends on when the next election will be held. In case this is the last Budget debate at which he will be present, we wish the Postmaster-General a happy retirement. But I say that if there is one thing that I would like him to do before he retires it is to take notice of these arguments that we have been putting forward for the severance of the Post Office from the Public Service Board and, possibly, the hiving off of the telecommunications section from the postal service into its own separate unit: 
We would like the Postmaster-General to bring forward a White Paper on this subject. We in the Opposition do not pretend that we can get hold of all the information that we would like so that we may make up our minds on this subject. We must be fairly tentative when we put forward these ideas. We are fortified by the fact that just this has been done in the United Kingdom. We are fortified by the fact that the largest Post Office union, the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union, supports the hiving off of the Post Office from the Public Service Board. We would like some more information on the subject. Why cannot we adopt the practices which apply in the British House of Commons where papers are brought down on these subjects so that the matters can be studied at greater length and depth than they are here and so that both sides can come to the right conclusions. 
Before resuming my seat, I wish to mention some of the management decisions that have been taken in the Post Office over the last year- I refer to the situation in my own electorate where a rationalisation of postal delivery services is taking place. If I may be allowed to, I mention the suburbs where this is occurring and is causing great consternation. In the local council area of St Peters in the electorate of Adelaide, an autonomous local government area, the local post office is no longer to be the centre for postal deliveries. This service is being transferred out of my electorate to Norwood post office in the electorate of Boothby. A great deal of consternation is being caused by this move. 
Although I could take cheap political points on this action, I realise that if we are to have an end to these ever increasing rises in postal charges more efficiency must be found. But I must say this: Where these steps are taken, I would appreciate it very much if the background papers - the rationale for this rationalisation - is put before the public. The Post Office is a public service. I would like to see the case proved as to what the savings in costs are to be by postal delivery services being transferred from St Peters to Norwood and, indeed, in the same way from Walkerville and Nailsworth to Prospect. These are all suburbs within my own electorate of Adelaide. At this time when the postal delivery is by reason of costs getting worse and worse, when only one delivery a day is being made and when businessmen are receiving their mail too late in the day, these further methods by which postal deliveries will start from a distance rather than from post offices close to the points of delivery, are an extreme worry to people in my electorate and, indeed, to me as their representative. I am prepared to argue for this move if I can see the rationale. The Postmaster-General will know, just as the Deputy Director of Posts and Telegraphs in South Australia knows so well, that I have written and asked for the details of this rationale, but I am not being supplied with it.  
I would like to raise many other matters. I have only a minute remaining. One that I have recently drawn to the attention of the Postmaster-General is the matter of licences for broadcasting and television receivers in nursing homes. I know that those nursing homes that are registered under the Commonwealth do receive the relevant concession. But there are other nursing homes, not registered under the Commonwealth, which are providing a service to people, taking pensioners whom others will not take in their old age. They do not get this concession. These homes are registered under the State. I draw to the attention of the Postmaster-General again, as he is in the House, this problem about which I have written to him. I hope that he will be able to give a favourable reply. 
I would have liked to talk about the Australian Broadcasting Commission but no time is available to do this on this occasion. I end, as I began, by saying that I support this amendment for greater decentralisation and for greater efficiency in the Post Office by breaking the Post Office away from the Public Service and by, perhaps, breaking its various services into further units. If this amendment is not carried, the Opposition will oppose the Bill, which is extremely inflationary in nature. 
 I rise for a few moments to record my objection to this legislation. The House has before it 3 Bills dealing with payroll tax. I point out, first, that at this time when our country is heading for an economic crisis the more powers that can be held in the hands of the Commonwealth - particularly taxing powers, which can help in economic planning - the better for this nation. Even members of the Government Parties are realising this fact at the moment. In the Budget debate the other night, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  although paying Hp service earlier in his speech to the belief that he was not a centralist, concluded by saying: 'Of course, we should consider ourselves as one country, not 6 separate countries, and as one economy and not 6 separate economies'. He said how much nonsense it was to play along with a lot of measures. I believe that he was referring to measures such as those before us now. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has said that our opposition to these Bills does not mean that the States do not deserve this money. Of course they deserve it. in my own State of South Australia, as with the other States of the Commonwealth, the fact is that this Commonwealh Government by its policies has created great demands on the resources of the State. Indeed, they are such great demands that the States have been forced into their only form of taxation, which is regressive taxation, to meet the great needs that they must supply to our everincreasing population. This money will be used to meet needs in education, needs in hospitals and needs in so many other fields. Yet, in all the talk that has taken place about improving Commonwealth-State financial relations and in all the documents that have been put out by universities and others interested in this most important subject for our country, no one has come up with this stupid measure of transferring payroll tax to the States as a growth tax. I have in front of me economic papers on the subject of taxation in the Australian Federal system by people such as Professor Russell Mathews, Professor W. Prest and Brian Dixon. Professor Mathews is from the Australian National University, Professor Prest was from the University of Melbourne and Brian Dixon was also from the Australian National University although he is now in the United States. These are well known papers on this subject of Commonwealth and State financial relations and yet nobody has used them in deciding on this measure of payroll tax. Giving payroll tax to the States is a desperate measure thought up by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  because he promised something new when he hurriedly took over the Government of this country. 
As the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  has said, I believe he does not understand the economics of it and does not understand just what yoke he has put round the necks of all of us in establishing this legislation. 
If there is one thing that taxation legislation should have about it, it is a certain simplicity and flexibility, and yet a measure which should be simple like this one of transferring payroll tax from the Commonwealth to the States has ended up in 3 Bills and an explanatory memorandum of  26  pages. It would take the most competent Queen's Counsel conversant with taxation matters with wet towels around his head an age to understand them. This is an infliction on this country being brought about by hurried and stupid legislation brought on at the last moment. Payroll tax was introduced to Australia in  1941  specifically to provide the funds required for the payment of child endowment to the families of wage and salary' earners. Another of the reasons why  1  am so against payroll tax being transferred to the States is that I believe this son of taxation should be used specifically for other social welfare measures - indeed, let us include child endowment. One of the things that my Party is extremely keen on instituting when we take over the government benches of this country is a national superannuation scheme in order to rid this country of the poverty now suffered by  1  million people. three-quarters of whom- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! 1  remind the honourable member that national superannuation is not the subject of this Bill. 
If you will give me a little latitude,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  1 will explain that the only way a national superannuation scheme can be instituted in this country is by using payroll tax and the argument is extremely pertinent to my speech today.  1  want to point out that if we are to get rid of this poverty afflicting a million people, three quarters of which was created because of inadequate social services, we will be able to do it only through a national superannuation scheme and we will be able to have a national superannuation scheme only if part of the finances come from payroll tax. Yet here we are, on the threshold of a Labor government being able to bring this sort of reform to this country, handing over these powers relating to payroll tax to the States to inflict an ever increasing cost burden on this country because the States, in order to raise the sort of revenues they need, are immediately lifting the rate of payroll tax by  1  per cent. It is an unimpressive piece of legislation altogether and when I refer to the complications of it I refer also to the new Bill which will re-introduce this tax in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. If this is not to be a uniform rate of tax of 3i per cent why bother to have it at all for the miserly amount that will be collected in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory? I think the Government should have made up its mind to rid the Northern Territory of this tax, because of the cost disadvantages that exist up there already. But if the States must inflict it on their people in order to raise the necessary finance, we should have it at a uniform rate of  3i  per cent throughout Australia. 
As the honourable member for Kingston says -  1  am looking forward to hearing his contribution to the debate - perhaps the Australian Capital Territory has to be a tax haven with a rate of tax  1  per cent lower than that which the States have to inflict. I promised the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  and the Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Peacock)  that I would be brief on this subject but  1  hope I have been able to make the point quite clearly that this is a power that should stay in the hands of the Commonwealth. I believe that if we are successful in opposing this piece of legislation my Party will certainly facilitate the immediate passage of the necessary legislation to give the States the income that they require to replace the income we would be removing from them. It is for these reasons that I oppose this Bill. 
I restrain myself from commenting on the speech of the Country Party member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  I do this only because 1 want to make my own contribution to this debate. It was 4 weeks last Tuesday night since our latest Treasurer in this latest, make-shift Liberal-Country Party Government brought down this Budget. The document was out of date on the night it was brought down - made out of date not only by the irrelevant economic policies it espoused but also because of the Nixon proposals in the United States of America announced a few days beforehand. How much more can it be seen to be out of date now, because of the economic indicators which have been revealed to us since Budget day, 17th August. 
The latest economic indicators are those staring us in the face in this week's newspapers. We do not have to look to the banks, or to W. D. Scott &amp; Co., or to the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia or to the Associated Chambers of Commerce for the clear message that there is a dangerous rise in unemployment and a marked drop in the level of effective demand and with it businessmen's confidence. We merely go home to an electorate like mine and listen to our constituents who have been put off work by such a company as General Motors-Holden's Ltd after years and years of good, skilled service. And we look at the unemployment figures and the job vacancy figures for August - before the Budget has had time to take effect. On the most conservative estimate we note, after seasonal adjustments have been made, that unemployment is growing at the monthly rate of 6.6 per cent. Also we note that registered vacancies are falling at the monthly rate of 4.2 per cent. 
We look also at the table of quarterly figures for gross national product at average 1966-67 prices with its related tables, a new series of indicators recently released by the Treasury. Admittedly these figures are for the period to the end of last June - at a time when the Budget was merely being framed - 'but this fact illustrates my proposition that this Budget was sorely out of date at the time of its conception let alone now. It was aimed at a situation which did not exist at the time it was brought down. The quarterly growth of real personal consumption to March 1970 was 4.8 per cent; to June 1970 it was reduced to 4.2 per cent; to September 1970 it was down to 4.1 per cent; to December 1970 it was down to 2.8 per cent; to March 1971 it was down still further to 2.2 per cent; and to June 1971 it was down to the disastrously low figure of 1.6 per cent. The figures for gross national expenditure are just as worrying, with the growth in the quarter to June 1971 down to 0.7 per cent from 5.4 in the March 1971 quarter - the 0.7 per cent meaning that the growth is not actually keeping in touch with the population growth. 
And so,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I return to my theme. We do not have to look to the banks, or to the Scotts or the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia for signs of this trend, for this message that unless there is quick appreciation of this problem - far quicker than it would seem is applying to this present Government at the present time if the answers of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  at question time this week are any indication - we are heading for a serious economic crisis with rising unemployment, even worse unemployment than we are experiencing right now. In fact, as some newspapers have written already, this Conservative Government is creating a pool of unemployment - an outworn policy, which will not cure the ill which is before us. 
Why do I think it is so important to hammer home this message of the danger signals that are about us? It is because I and my colleagues in the Australian Labor Party realise that there is nothing worse than unemployment, nothing more degrading for our nation, nothing more depressing for the morale of our people. This Liberal-Country Party Government seems to be leading us into this situation - rushing headlong into it. Why? Because, in addition to all its other faults, so manifest in recent months, its members seem to be blind to these economic signs I have mentioned and they are prisoners of their own anachronistic economic theories. I am particularly concerned because my State of South Australia is the first one hit in the slightest recession because so many of our resources are bound up in the manufacture of motor cars, washing machines and other consumer durables - the first things hit in the slightest slump. 
We in the Opposition do not quarrel with the diagnosis of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  concerning inflation. We do not quarrel with the fact that he and the Liberal-Country Party Government to which he belongs are at last trying to do something about it. We despair because they seem not to see that we are suffering from a classic case of stagflation - that is inflationary stagnation or stagnation with inflation; an economic illness which has overtaken the United States and the United Kingdom, among other countries, in recent years. Stagflation requires different treatment to inflation. Reducing effective demand overall, striking a blow at businessmen's confidence, creating a pool of unemployment - these methods do not cure stagflation. The prices go on going up as the unemployment also goes on going up. In getting mesmerised by inflation for goodness sake we must not let this Government get mesmerised at the same time by old, outworn economic theories to cure it. 
The blunt instruments of monetary policy such as stringent control over the limits to the supply of money and the high cost of that money, namely, high interest rates - these policies alone do not cure inflation. They are blunt instruments which help to cause stagnation. In the same way such fiscal or budgetary policies as large domestic budget surpluses, such as the one planned in this Budget of $630m, the siphoning off of funds from the community by higher personal and company taxes and by higher charges for such items as postal and telephone services, broadcast and television licences, petrol and other fuels, the doubling of the patient's charge for pharmaceutical benefits from 50c to $1 - a wicked charge for so many, particularly young families on lower incomes and in many cases large young families at that - are but some examples of the methods of this Government in this Budget. I repeat: These policies, whether separately or collectively, are no cure for inflation these days. If used so heavy handedly as they have been they are a blueprint for even worse stagnation. Are not so many of these charges anyway passed on in higher costs to the community? Are not in so many cases the company taxes passed on. the postal and telephone charges passed on. the petrol and oil charges and so on? 
Let me remind this Liberal-Country Party Ministry that it is much, much harder to revivify a sagging economy than it is to regulate an excessive boom. One would think that this lesson would have been learnt at the time of the Governmentinduced 1961-62 recession. At this point let me put on record that I object also to the way that cuts have been made in Government expenditure. The share of gross national expenditure going through Government hands is still far too low in order to provide adequately for the community's needs in such areas as education, health and welfare. So many of my colleagues have touched on these subjects in this debate that I will not repeat their points. But we should be thoroughly ashamed of ourselves as a country of affluence - this lucky country - to be prepared to put up with these inadequacies inflicted on our education system and with the poverty suffered by so many of our people, particularly the pensioners and large families of our nation. 
This is not to say that we must not cut out wastage, that we must not see in this sphere of Public Service expenditure, as in every other sphere of activity in this nation, that Parkinson's Law must not apply and that a fair day's work must not be given for a fair day's pay. Of course these things must apply. Wastages and inefficiencies are a dead loss to us all, to each one of us in this nation. These matters are direct attacks on our standard of living. But this is a far cry from postponing the improvements to the Alice Springs Hospital and from postponing the provision of some badly needed schools. There are so many other examples that I could give of desperately needed government expenditure being cut or postponed. 
I am vitally interested in this whole field of government expenditure. As ViceChairman of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Public Accounts, indeed so I should be, because I am one of the watchdogs of the Parliament and thus of the people in trying to ensure that the people's money is well spent, that we get value for the taxation funds which are taken from us. Frankly, I have my own ideas as to how the work of the Public Accounts Committee could be improved, could be made less stereotyped and more flexible and thus, I believe, of more value. T hope I shall be able to put these suggestions to the House on some other more appropriate occasion after I have had the opportunity for due consultation with others on both sides of the House. I think we may be able to take a lead from the terms of reference of the new Expenditure Committee of the British House of Commons - suitably adopted for our Public 
Accounts Committee because we do not want a proliferation of committees in this Parliament. 
But this is not the only way we can improve the value of our money in the matter of government expenditure. The Treasurer said in his Budget Speech: 
It is proposed to initiate within the Government a review of the existing functions and activities of departments. 
This could be well worth while. I withhold my judgment until I see by whom this review is to be made. Surely, anyway, this has been the continuing function of the Public Service Board. If there was a rationale for another independent inquiry, surely the independence of that inquiry might best be achieved by appointing reviewers from outside the Commonwealth Public Service. There need not necessarily be appointments exclusively from firms of management consultants in private enterprise. Why not also have more cross fertilisation of ideas by arranging the interchange of senior public servants from State governments too, or even, perhaps, from the governments of other English-speaking countries of the world? 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I have digressed from the subject of economic policy for stagflation. I intimated earlier that Keynes's theories, in my view, are not right in this day and age. The behaviour patterns of people have changed in these areas in the last 3 decades. With strong unions knowing that there is so much further to go before they get wage justice, a fairer share of the cake for their members; with so many large impregnable international companies; with institutions, financial and others, which are vastly different from what they were 30 years ago; with the growth of hire purchase and other similar forms of term lending and with savings in arrears; is it any wonder that these behaviour patterns are different? We need new economic theories, new policies to meet these new challenges. 
At this stage,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  with the concurrence of honourable members - I have already received the permission of the  Deputy  Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  to do this, because I expected that he would be in the House at this stage, I incorporate in Hansard the clauses of the economic platform of the Australian Labor 
Parly, from the A LP's Platform, Constitution and Rules, as approved by the 29th Commonwealth Conference of the Party held in Launceston in June of this year: 
ECONOMIC PLANNING 
Institute indicative planning and programmed budgeting for economic growth and social justice by the Commonwealth, in co-operation with the States, local authorities and organisations of employees and employers; this planning to be consistent with the maintenance of full employment and the conservation of natural resources. 
Balance the functions and finances of the Commonwealth, States, regional and local authorities to ensure that resources are adequately developed and services adequately provided. 
With the object of achieving Labors socialist objectives, establish or extend public enterprise, where appropriate by nationalisation, particularly in the fields of banking, consumer finance, insurance, marketing, housing, stevedoring, transport and in areas of antisocial private monopoly. 
Identify, publicise and otherwise expose unfair prices or practices and the exploitation of consumers and in conjunction with the States to operate Australia wide price control. This policy to be supplemented by the use of power of government to purchase goods and place orders. 
Legislate against monopolies and strengthen existing trade practices legislation. 
Assist small primary producers, retailers and others to adjust to changing economic conditions by expanding Agricultural Extension Services, by using Rural Reconstruction Boards, by establishing a Small Business Administration and by instituting programmes to retrain and resettle small producers and retailers. 
Regulate hire purchase, fringe banking and other credit-creating institutions, in order to control effective demand. 
Use selective interest rates, particularly in areas such as housing. 
Sever the Postmaster-General's Department from Public Service Board control. 
Establish clearer guidelines for overseas investors, for the benefit both of these investors and of the Australian community. Overseas investment in Australia to be encouraged only where it introduces new technology and expertise, includes plans for Australian participation in the enterprise, and/or otherwise shows itself to be in Australia's national interest. 11. (a) reserve income tax exclusively to the 
Commonwealth Parliament, 
Review the Australian taxation system, especially in order to - 
reduce taxation on lower and middle incomes; 
adjust the system of deductions to avoid inequities; 
prevent avoidance of taxation oy formation of companies, trusts, partnerships, or in any other manner; 
re-define 'Income' for taxation purposes so that a fair share of taxation will be paid by those who benefit from the accumulation of assets; 
tax company income at graduated rates; 
redress the incidence of indirect taxes on essential goods. 
Protect Australian industries, where necessary, by tariffs, import controls, and/or subsidies in order to safeguard Australian living standards and to develop Australian resources. The use and level of, and choice between, means of protection to be determined after examination and report by an independent, fully equipped, government authority which will consider, among other things, efficiency, growth prospects, trade practices and pricing policies. 

 Mr Deputy  Speaker,  I draw to the attention of the House particularly clauses 1, 4, 5. 7, 8 and 12. These clauses collectively form a blueprint for a war on stagflation. Let me firsty  direct special attention to price control. We have not written into our policy anything which requires a change in the Constitution before it can be implemented. In fact, it is possible that we may want to do more in the way of direct control of prices. In that case we shall seek the necessary powers from the people to do these things which we consider so necessary for the proper control of our economy. We have merely at this stage talked in terms of some mechanism such as a prices justification tribunal to be operated, we hope, in conjunction with the States or the standing committee on prices of this Parliament mentioned in the Budget speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  And we believe that such methods of inducement to price restraint will be effective - very effective - particularly when supplemented by the Government using its power to purchase goods and place orders in such a way as to favour those who are efficient and are not seeking exorbitant profits. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I go so far as to say that this direct intervention of government or this Parliament into the field of price control, in conjunction with the implementation of a national plan and sensible tariff, and restrictive trade practice and fringe banking policies, is not only the most effective but also the only way to tackle stagflation; the only way to tackle inflation without causing stagnation. I am reinforced in my views by what 1 have learnt of the views of the Right Honourable Aubrey Jones, formerly a Minister in Conservative governments in the United Kingdom and more recently Chairman of Labor Prime Minister Harold Wilson's Prices and Incomes Board which attempted unsuccessfuly to implement an incomes policy in Great Britain to overcome stagflation. Incidentally, Aubrey Jones is visiting Canberra next week to talk to the Canberra branch of the Economic Society of Australia and New Zealand. I am only sorry that the Parliament will not be sitting next week so that we could have him come to this place to discuss these most important matters with our appropriate committees. However, I am told that with all the experience he has had in these matters his views are that you cannot have proper restraint, you cannot have any sort of success with an incomes policy - let alone these blunt instruments being used by this Government - unless you first have some form of price control, ensuring that not only one sector of the economy, namely, that covering wage and salary earners, is being restrained. 
Let me emphasise that we in the Australian Labor Party do not envisage a mighty bureaucracy controlling all prices. Not only would that be ineffective, but it would not be acceptable to the Australian people. What we do envisage is using power over key prices. In the meantime, we intend to use inducement, so that businessmen who have these great powers over prices are 'persuaded', and indeed induced, to justify their level of prices. This is not a bird-brain idea arrived at intuitively by me and some others. This is a well thought through theory of that eminent economist John Kenneth Galbraith which I outlined in the simplest possible terms I could command in my Budget speech last year.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I have not been able to obtain permission from the Ministry to incorporate in Hansard the 3 appropriate paragraphs on this subject from my speech on the Budget last year, which appear on pages 738 and 739 of Hansard of 28th August 1970. The view expressed in those paragraphs - it is fully documented - is a complete justification for the policy of price control. This is the lie to those in Government, including the Prime Minister, who are saying that we are not concerned about inflation. Of course we are - not only this year, but also last year and the year before as any perusal of the Budget debates of recent years would show any interested person who was not intent to make cheap political capital out of untruths. I think I can be called an Australian Labor Party economic spokesman in these matters. I have directed my speeches to this most important matter of the stabilisation of the economy on more than one occasion. The Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  among others, covered this subject of economic stability in their speeches on the Budget. Indeed, it forms part of the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition, which I support. The Leader of the Opposition has been criticised, on the one hand, for speaking for too long - I think 65 minutes was the time mentioned - and on the other hand for not saying enough about inflation. He certainly cannot have it both ways. 
The Standing Orders allow me only 20 minutes to make this speech and so I must draw my contribution to a close. 1 have no time to talk further about the misallocation of our resources which is taking place, about the lack of leadership being given to our primary industries to get to the crux of the real problems facing the country people - the Wool Commission, the 36c per lb of wool, the rural reconstruction proposals so far brought before the House. These are only temporary sedatives. We have to look at the ways the United Kingdom, the United States and Western Europe have tackled these great rural problems which have overtaken us 20 years later than them. I have no time to talk further about the injustice and inequity of this Liberal-Country Party Government allowing exorbitant profits to be earned by so many companies in our community, particularly finance companies, and which then has the hide to blame inflation on the workers of this country in the lower income groups because those workers seek wage justice through the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or by other means at their disposal. Do these Ministers not realise that the 6 per cent awarded last year was to a large extent only enabling those who received it to catch up with cost increases? 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, this country is being sorely mismanaged economically as well as socially. These people who govern us do not believe in planning, as the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  pointed out to his colleagues in his Budget contribution earlier this evening. They do not believe in controlling the level of investment. In the meantime, millions of ordinary Australians suffer because of a shocking Budget like this one. As my time is ending I had better sit down before my blood pressure goes up any further. I support the Oppositions amendment. Otherwise I oppose this Budget and all it stands for. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Division of Adelaide respectfully sheweth: 
That the determination as to which young men are required to undergo compulsory military setvice under the National Service Act 1951-1968 is arrived at by a ballot system, based upon arbitrary grounds as to their date of birth. 
And that this procedure providing for selection by a method of chance is an unfair and arbitrary imposition on the human rights of a minority and discriminates against certain of the young male persons in the community in favour of others solely by reason of their respective dates of binh. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Section Twenty-six of* the National Service Act 1951-1968 be repealed. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I cannot restrain myself from rising to speak on this amendment which seeks the release of the only 3 out of many thousands of conscientious objectors to the war in Vietnam who are being used as an example by this Government and who are languishing in gaol at this very time as we debate this legislation. The facts outlined by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  concerning Charles Martin, who is a constituent of mine, are quite correct. I can go further than has the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and say that if this Bill were an Act right now Charles Martin would be allowed out of gaol. This would not apply to the other 2 men whom the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition mentioned. I consider that my letter to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  was an application to the GovernorGeneral of Australia for the release of Charles Martin as from last Monday, which was the 1-year anniversary of his being imprisoned, and the fact that this Government advised the Governor-General not to accede to that application is nothing more than a piece of vindictiveness. 
The fact that this vindictiveness can be carried out by this Government is clearly plain in this case and the fact that it will not, it would seem from what we hear in the lobbies, accept this amendment is another example of this vindictiveness. If I may I will explain why I call it vindictiveness. We know that if this Bill becomes law the term of imprisonment will be reduced for anybody in the circumstances of Charles Martin from 2 years to 18 months. We also know that Charles Martin is in gaol in South Australia where the remission from his sentence is one-third for good behaviour. Those of us who have taken an interest in this young man who comes from Strathalbyn in South Australia know that his behaviour has been absolutely exemplary and he would therefore be entitled to a one-third remission. This would mean he would be eligible to be released from gaol on the 1-year anniversary of his imprisonment. In other words he would have been out of gaol last Monday if this Bill had been law. 
Yet in spite of the fact that the AttroneyGeneral has agreed that a letter from me dated 23rd August could be looked upon as an application to the GovernorGeneral for this young man to be released from gaol and in spite of the fact that it would seem from the Attorney-General's reply to me that this matter was put before the Governor-General with the recommendation of the Government not to release him, Charles Martin is still in gaol. It is a callous dying kick, I would say, by the Government that it is at this late hour trying to justify the action in Vietnam and taking it out on certain citizens who have the moral courage to stand against it and all that it stands for. 
I was not one of those chosen to specialise on this Bill and speak to it before the House tonight but because this amendment has been moved and because one of the 3 people concerned is a constituent of mine and is a person for whom I have great affection and great admiration I was compelled to rise and speak on this occasion. I believe that Charles Martin and the other 2 people should be let out of gaol. I believe that this amendment if accepted would ensure that this sort of thing would not happen again and that these political prisoners would be enjoying their freedom today. 
Thursday, 30 September 1971 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
When did the Australian Meat Board appoint the Washington legalfirm of Clifford, Warnke, McIlwain and Finney as its legal representatives and advisersin the United States of America. 
Does this firm still act for the Board. 
If so, is the firm a lobbyist for the Board in the United States Congress. 
Is he able to say whether this function is normally carried out by professional firms of lobbyists rather than by legal firms. 
What are the other functions of the firm in its relationship with the Board. 
What sum has been paid by the Board to the firm in each financial year since its appointment. 
What is the Board's assessment of the benefits it has derived by the appointment of this legal firm. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian  education system; a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all; more than 300,000 children suffer from serious lack of equal opportunity; Australia cannot afford to waste the talents of one sixth of its school children; only the Commonwealth has the financial resources for special programmes to remove inadequacies; and nations such as the United Kingdom and the United States have shown that the chief impetus for change and the finance for improvement come from the National Government. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives make legal provision for a joint Commonwealth-State inquiry into inequalities in Australian education to obtain evidence on which to base long term national programmes for the elimination of inequalities; the immediate financing of special programmes for low income earners, migrants, Aboriginal, rural and inner suburban dwellers and handicapped children; and the provision of pre school opportunities for all children from culturally different or socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds. And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The break-up of the proposed expenditure of $103,984,000 for the Department of the Treasury is shown under the headings of Administration, Commonwealth Taxation Office, Taxation Board of Review, Office of the Superannuation and Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board and the Bureau of Census and Statistics. I would dearly like to spend 10 minutes discussing each of these Departments. I mention the Bureau of Census and Statistics. It is the wish of the Opposition that an in depth inquiry be made into the whole aspect of poverty in our community and of course this particular section of the Treasury - the Bureau of Census and Statistics - would be vital in such a task. The proposed expenditure for the Office of the Superannuation and Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board has been discussed recently in other debates in this Parliament. However, I reiterate that the Opposition believes that the Government has been treating this on an ad hoc basis by bringing certain payments up to date for those who retired before 1968, whereas the whole aspect of superannuation needs thorough investigation. The Opposition is looking forward to the report of the committee which is now examining the question of defence forces retirement benefits. 
When examining the administration of the Treasury, I am reminded of my attitude and that of my colleagues to the structure of government as it has been arranged by the present Liberal-Country Party Government. Policies are formed on an ad hoc and temporary basis in many different departments. One finds the Department of Trade and Industry announcing a policy which conflicts with a policy that has been decided upon almost at the same time by the policy making division of the Treasury. The De partment of Primary Industry also is responsible for policy making. One could go through a list of Government departments in this country which make independent policy decisions. The only co-ordination that is supposedly taking place is at Cabinet level and honourable members can imagine just what form that co-ordination would take. 
I raise as only one example the decisions that are made by the Department of Immigration to indicate how this gells or does not co-ordinate with the decisions that are made in Treasury from time to time about the rate of growth of the economy. I mention these matters in passing merely to emphasise that this is a Government which makes ad hoc decisions whereas one of the features of the Australian Labor Party when it takes over the Treasury benches will be that it will co-ordinate the policy making of this country. Such co-ordination should be carried out in the present structure by the Treasury but it is not being done. The present set up is a 'HeathRobinson' one and I hope this gives the right impression of what is happening in this country at present. 
However, 1 pass over those matters to spend most of the time available to me on the subject of taxation, because I believe that the policy of the Labor Party - the alternative government of this country - on this subject is not as well known as it should be. At its Federal Conference in Launceston in June this year, the Labor Party passed a comprehensive motion on the subject of taxation. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard the following motion: 
In discussing the estimates for the Department of Customs and Excise, the Department of Primary Industry and the Department of Trade and Industry, I hope very briefly to cover 3 subjects. The first subject is the rural crisis. A member from a city seat has very few opportunities to talk on this subject as there are others from country electorates to take the opportunity to speak on Bills which affect rural areas. The second topic which I wish to mention is the European Economic Community. We have not yet had an opportunity to discuss this subject which is most important to this country. If I have time, the third subject with which I will deal is tariffs. 
Firstly, I want to congratulate the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  for raising a subject which 1 think must be of interest to all of us in this house. I am aware that he has information which allowed him to bring up this subject immediately, almost on the same day as the tabling of the tariff reports. This is information which is not in the hands of the rest of us yet. But very properly the honourable member has used this information to question the Government. I think he would agree that the case is non-proven but it is quite proper that he should raise it. We all recognise that the honourable member is acting on a minority report and that there are other members of the Tariff Board who have a different opinion and who have not signed that report or those criticisms. We want to hear that side of the story before any of us make up our minds. We do not have a party view on this but the honourable member is- 
They all signed the report but they have not signed the minority report or the criticisms of it. What I am suggesting is that it is proper that the minority view should be raised in this Parliament for those who have the responsibility to answer the questions being raised here. That is the point I am trying to get across. I congratulate the honourable member for raising this matter but I want it known that he is not necessarily putting forward a party view on this at all. We want to know the answers to the questions he has raised before making up our minds on it. 
Let me turn to the rural crisis. There are 2 points that I want to make about this matter. One is that we should recognise that for 20 years now we have been the lucky' country in regard to selling our primary products on the world market. If we look at the United States of America, the United Kingdom or Western Europe, we find that all of those countries have had to undergo very serious rural reconstruction. If we look at our own country we find that our great product, wool, has been one of the few primary products in the world for which the production cost has been less than the price on the world market. For reasons 1 shall come to and for some other reasons that none of us know the price of that product has now dropped in such a way that we are in the same position as those in the rural industries in the United Kingdom, the United States and, to a great extent, Western Europe. We are grappling with this great problem of reconstruction. 
This brings me to the second point - that is, that we are suffering from a government whereby the Australian Country Party interests are the tail that wags the dog. The result of that has been that we have had a government which has been operating in a complete vacuum. The Government has not got out and led this country; it has not got out and instituted those rural policies which are in the best interests of the whole of this country. The Government has been waiting for the industry on each occasion to make up its mind. This is just not good enough for this country. 
The Government's behaviour affects not only those many thousands of people living in the rural districts but also people who are living in electorates such as mine. This is my excuse, apart from the fact that I had my upbringing in country areas, for talking on this subject in the Parliament. My electorate, the city electorate of Adeaide, is being affected by this rural crisis. We are all being affected. I do not want anyone on the other side of the chamber to get up and say that I have no right to talk about this matter. I think I am an informed observer and, as I say, I was brought up in the rural districts of Western Australia. I am sick to death of suffering a government - and so are the people who I represent - which has waited for industry to make up its mind. 
We have had referenda at which decisions have gone against the Government, where every informed person has known that the referendum should have been passed and there should have been a yes vote rather than a no vote. We have waited and waited for decisions to be made; we have arrived at the situation that we have today. So my one short message in the short time at my disposal is: Let us look at the way in which the United Kingdom, Western Europe and the United States have had to grapple with the subject of rural reconstruction. These countries certainly did not use the sort of policies that we are seeing in this country at the moment. I refer to policies concerning a wool commission, and a rural reconstruction scheme which is doing nothing but scratch the surface. We have to grapple with the problem. We have to go out and show and tell the people that 30c per lb for wool is probably the maximum that we will get in the foreseeable future. We should do this instead of hoping like Charles Dickens' character  Mr Micawber  for something to turn up and not get on with the policies which ought to be instituted in this country. 
I now come to the second subject - the European Economic Community - because here the story is much the same. For years we have seen that Britain was likely to go into the European Economic Community. Yet, today and yesterday we have had in our midst in this Parliament  Mr Les  Huckfield, the member for Nuneaton in the British House of Commons who is trained in this economic field and who has told us just how we have missed out in relation to what New Zealand has done in the negotiations for Britain's entry into the European Economic Community. There may be excuses because of the terrible time the Government has been suffering with its clash of personalities; whether the Prime Minister would be the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  or the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon);  and whether the right honourable member for Higgins would survive as Minister for Defence and so on. But while these things have been going on we have not had a proper voice of government in the negotiations which have taken place in Europe. As a result we have found ourselves being sold down the drain by Great Britain in her negotiations with Europe. 
We have had a government that has not even known what it has wanted in these negotiations. Industries, such as the vine fruits industry in my own State and indeed the sugar industry in the State of my colleague, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  are now facing an even greater crisis than they would have faced in the present rural crisis for other reasons of prices on the world market. 
I had the opportunity earlier this year to be in Brussels, the capital of the Community. I also visited the House of Commons in London where I talked to those who have been involved in the negotiations in Europe. It was clear then that, whatever Australia's interests were, Britain would go in. Indeed at that time in January and February when I was in England it was still not clear what the term of entry would be. That was the time when the really strong representations should have been made on these subjects by Australia in Brussels and London. Indeed there was no-one to speak at that time with the strong voice of government. We have been sold down the drain by this Government in the negotiations and we now have to pick up the tab - and it is not a very nice tab we are picking up - in all the reconstruction that has to take place. 1 want to move briefly to the subject of tariffs. I congratulate those honourable members from my party who have spoken on this subject. However, I want to point out what they have pointed out - namely that in this plank of our platform on the subject of tariffs we are absolutely sold on the idea of having an independent Tariff Board to examine each one of these industries closely. We recognise that full employment is the No. 1 plank in our platform. We all know that there is nothing more degrading for any community than to live in a country in which there is unemployment. At the same time, we believe that this Government has allowed industries which are inefficient to grow where strong action would have made sure that employment was maintained, that a ceiling was put on employment in those industries and that the resources of and employment in our country were transferred to other industries where there would be greater economic growth. 
Unfortunately, this is a vast subject which is far too long to cover in 10 minutes. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray: 
That the Government go beyond the plea of the Prime Minister for magnanimity and compassion in the trial of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman on charges of treason, and insist on the liberty of this openly and democratically elected leader. Your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Employment of Refugees from Bangla Desh 
I am sorry that the Prime Minister is not here to answer this question. Will the Acting Prime Minister enlighten us, as indeed the Prime Minister has failed to enlighten the nation, as to what are the specific purposes of the Prime Minister's trip to the United States and the United Kingdom other than window dressing for party political purposes? What can the Prime Minister do about  Nixonomics  and the European Common Market that his Treasurer and indeed the  Deputy  Prime Minister have failed to do in their recent journeys'? Will the Prime Minister emulate his Foreign Minister by making a naive and nationally damaging election speech in New York? Will he bring back with him a hastily drawn up FI 12 contract? Will he disabuse our minds of the suspicion that the journey is being undertaken so that the Prime Minister may escape the scrutiny of this House for 3 of the relatively few weeks that the House sits. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that (a) in one particular week in July 1971 the Maternity Ward 2 at Alice Springs Hospital, which is designed to accommodate 14 patients, held 25 patients, (b) as a temporary expedient to meet this situation which will not be finally resolved until the new hospital is completed in 1975-76, a building known as New Ward 3, will be re-opened shortly, (c) to avoid expenditure on staffing, New Ward 3, which is some distance from Maternity Ward 2, is to be opened as an annexe of that ward to avoid salary commitments for an additional senior Sister and that there is no plan otherwise to increase the total nursing establishment to enable the reasonable operation of the additional ward, (d) the staff from the old Ward 3 has been used to open a special isolation ward 7, and this will place unreasonable burdens on already seriously over-taxed senior Sisters, (e) there are only 15 positions for senior Sisters at Alice Springs Hospital, causing such a strain that not more than one can be on leave at any one time, (0 senior Sisters cannot afford to be sick and that their responsibilities are being imposed on junior nursing staff, (g) New Ward 3 has been used for the training of nursing assistants and that the hospital authorities are now forced to shift this training centre to a small building previously used as a store-room by painters and carpenters, (h) the United States community at Alice Springs, the breadwinners of which staff the Pine Gap Space Research facility, have made such representations about inadequate hospital facilities at Alice Springs, that as a result, a medical practitioner appointed and financed by the United States Government is to commence duty at Alice Springs Hospital on about 4th September 1971, (i) the St John's Ambulance Brigade in Alice Springs, which provides ambulance services for the Alice Springs Hospital on Saturday nights and otherwise attends at sporting fixtures, is facing difficulties in meeting operation and maintenance costs, (j) the Northern Territory Director of Health has refused to recommend the allowance to the Brigade of a subsidy of $50 per month and (k) the St John's Ambulance Brigade will cease operationif this subsidy is not received within the next few weeks. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The bumble petition of electors  of  the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol  of  1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict  of  any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid  or  solid - employed for their direct toxic effects  on  man, animals or plants; 
That the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
That the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riot control' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray 
That the Parliament take note of the concensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
That honourable members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals' or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The speech to which we have just listened was a brave effort by the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  and I am sure those of us who heard it enjoyed it. But I would hate to be given the task of summarising what was constructive in the speech, if I may say so, the reason being that there was so little that was constructive. The honourable member for North Sydney was full of drawing a wide and colourful picture about the aviation industry, telling us of the great problems that are ahead of us, then having some mysterical faith in the board of Qantas to be able to overcome these problems and, indeed, seeming rather indignant that the Opposition should have the audacity to question some of the opinions expressed on the basis of the information that is before it. 
For a start I would say that this Bill is not properly explained to this Parliament. 1 myself would have been ashamed if I had read the second reading speech to the Parliament. In short it tells us that the Government is acting as a clearing house for the collection of funds from abroad in order to appropriate those funds on behalf of Qantas. We are told that these funds, if I have understood the second reading speech correctly, are coming from 3 sources. An amount of $US7,377,600 is coming from the Export-Import Bank at 6 per cent. That is not a bad rate of interest but there is a nasty charge over and above that of  i  per cent. This is what I would call a procurement fee. Then from the Boeing Co. a further $US3,932,800 is borrowed at  6i  per cent. Those amounts have been borrowed in the United States. I hope I have understood this correctly, although I believe that the second reading speech requires 2 or 3 readings before one understands this correctly. If we convert into Australian currency the $US 11,310,400 that is to be borrowed from the United States we get a figure of $A10.1m. We have to do that because we must now continue in Australian currency to learn what is needed from borrowing from a bond issue of $13. 15m made by the Commonwealth in Europe. 
I am taking the trouble to outline this so that the Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Peacock),  who I believe will later speak in this debate, may correct me if I am incorrect. This is the only way I have of finding out whether I have correctly interpreted the second reading speech. The total borrowings will, I believe, be $A23.25m. This amount of money is to be spent on 2 Boeing 747 jets which Qantas Airways Ltd requires for its fleet. The first of these jets will, I believe, cost $A25.7m and the second $A25.4m. The total expenditure on the 2 jets will be $A51.1m. I would have liked to know, if this House is to be properly informed, just why Qantas has looked to this Government for the $A23.25m. Perhaps it would be of interest for this House to know what is expected to be the cash flow budget of Qantas for the next few years or indeed what its funds are now. I have the annual report of Qantas to turn back to and I can see that Qantas made a profit of $5,343,000 for the financial year ended 30th June 1971. That figure was down from a profit of $8,166,000 for the previous financial year. From my reading of the annual report I have been unable to obtain in the detail that I would have liked, for a proper scrutiny of these affairs, why this particular sum of money is being sought from this Government in order to make ends meet and enable Qantas to buy these two 747s. 
This is not the only reason why the Opposition has moved an amendment to this Bill. In fact this is a minor reason. The fact is that the Opposition is expressing in this amendment a general uneasy feeling, a feeling that is shared by everybody who is interested in civil aviation in this country, about the future of our national airline. Before I become critical let me explain that I am normally, when it comes to travel anyway, a great supporter of our national airline. In the short time that I have been in this Parliament I have been fortunate enough to travel with a parliamentary delegation around the world and on that tour I was able to test many airlines. But earlier in my career and during the time when I was a student I also travelled by the world's airlines. I would say that our own international airline, Qantas, is second to none. It has always been a pleasure to me to board Qantas aircraft in various parts of the world. In no way do I want to criticise the services of Qantas. I think that all Australians have reason to be proud of their airline. 
But an uneasy feeling arises in such a situation as we have had recently, when there has been a decline in the growth of world traffic in terms of the number of airline seats taken up by passengers. In this situation our own international airline has been the last to move - or so it would seem to me from the little I have been able to find out - or certainly has been slow to move into the charter field. This is something which makes me feel extremely uneasy. 1 am only referring to this as something which the honourable member for Newcastle has not covered in his speech. I know that he did mention the charter field but he concentrated for the greater part of his speech on the other opportunities which could be taken at a time such as this when we are paying out $A51.Im to Boeing for the purchase of 2 jets and Qantas has had to come to this Parliament to raise these funds for the purchase of these aircraft. 
Qantas will be paying this money but it has had to come to this Parliament to be able to borrow the funds. I think the honourable member will agree that that is correct. I apologise if I expressed it badly a few moments ago and f thank the honourable member for correcting me. 
As the honourable member for Newcastle said, Qantas has come to this Parliament in order to get these favourable terms to assist in the purchase of the aircraft. These favourable terms are so necessary in these hard trading times if Qantaas is to make ends meet in the forthcoming years. The point is that we on the Opposition side have a duty at this time to spell out the deficiencies in the field of civil aviation and that is why we have moved this amendment. As the honourable member for Newcastle said, the amendment refers to the state of the aircraft industry in this country. It is nothing new to use a bargaining point such as this in order to help our own industries in this country. If it is possible, to use the words used in this amendment, 'to bring about substantial co-production procedures relating to our imported aircraft', then we have a duty to do so. At the present time the case goes by default inasmuch as we have not heard any explanation from this Government as to why it has not driven a bargain such as this when indeed a bargain is so badly needed with the state that our aircraft industry is in. 
The second part of the amendment moved by the Opposition refers to a proposal for the appointment of a select committee to inquire into and report upon the effectiveness of the Qantas management. The Opposition has limited its remarks about the ineffectiveness of the Qantas management. We have limited them by relating this criticism only to the crew retrenchments - and as the honourable member for Newcastle said, this is something which is very much in our minds today when final notices have been served on a number of Qantas pilots - the migrant carriage contracts at a time when the migration programme is being tailed off and, as I mentioned earlier, charters and fares. I would like to add to what the honourable member for Newcastle said about the timeliness of this Bill coming before the Parliament today. Many honourable members will have noted the 'Australian Financial Review' front page headlines  "Fatal blow" to some airlines' in yesterday's issue in which the news was given that a meeting held at Lausanne in Switzerland was the third effort by members of the International Air Transport Association to resolve what the airlines regard as a dangerous situation, namely, a lack of agreement when it comes to fares. 
There is an uneasy feeling amongst members of the Opposition who take an interest in these affairs that we are coming to the time in this whole field of civil aviation when our own Qantas management will be behind some other airline managements in the world. It is not so long since there was a big shake up in the employees of the British Overseas Airways Corporation. It seems to me, as an independent observer of these affairs, that that shake up of BOAC has led to that airline now being far ahead of Australia's own airline, lt certainly led to BOAC being in the charter field before our own airline announced chat it would be in the charter field. 
At the risk of repeating myself, 1 must refer to a document which was brought out by the Australian Federation of Air Pilots which examined various aspects of Qantas Airways Ltd, including future prospects concerning retrenchments and the world market. It summed up the difficulties that are ahead as, firstly, the failure of the market to expand at the predicted rate; secondly, the increased competition on world routes - we all know that an increasing number of airlines are entering the field all the time, and that there was the unfortunate situation of the Malaysian and Singapore airlines dividing only the other day; and, thirdly, the incursions of charter carriers into traditional markets. In this document the Australian Federation of Air Pilots says: 
The only possible remedy is to compete. While a passenger who is not committed to fixed date travel can obtain, by answering an advertisement in a newspaper, a $464 discount on the Qantas return fare to the United Kingdom, he will not travel on Qantas. 
Many people of our own acquaintance these days travel on the normal air routes only as far as Singapore and then take charter flights at least as far as Brussels and sometimes into Gatwick or even into Heath Row if they are going to the United Kingdom. The fourth difficulty mentioned by the Federation concerned the increase in seat capacity. It is terrible that in this technological world in which we live we must compete. We must keep up with the Joneses. Because other countries have Boeing 747 aircraft it is absolutely necessary that Australia should have them with their greater seating capacity at  a  time when the market is not growing commensurately. 
I have mentioned the cutback in migrant services. I have not mentioned, so far, the increases in air navigation charges and, at this particular time, with the Government economies, the drop in the number of Government employees travelling by air, nor the other cost increases which have been brought about by a lack of proper economic planning and a policy of price control from which we are suffering under the present Government. For all these reasons the Opposition is extremely uneasy about the whole field of civil aviation, particularly as it affects overseas travel. As a Parliament we are being asked to sanction the borrowing of a lot of money in order to buy these Boeing 747 aircraft. Now is the time to stop and consider what is the future for Qantas and to make an assessment of the management of Qantas. I do not pretend that in the world that I live in - having only libraries and the written word to call upon for the most part for the information that I need - I can come up with constructive ideas as to the way Qantas should go in future. I believe that it is a function of this Parliament to set up a select committee to which expert witnesses can be called so that necessary information can be made available. I strongly support the Opposition's amendment and hope that, if not on this occasion, such a committee will be set up shortly. 
The estimates for this Department are divided into  10  separate divisions, even after the hiving off of a number of divisions to the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. I have time in my  10  minutes, which is a very short time, to say something about only a few of them. I hope to deal with  3  divisions. First of all, I want to say something about overseas trips. This subject has been referred to humorously by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  However,  1  shall bring to the debate heat where be brought humour. I am talking about overseas trips by Ministers in particular because I am totally unconvinced that some of these trips are unnecessary. I consider, and will do so until it is proven otherwise, that the taxpayers of this nation are being taken for a ride by a well paid Ministry which is looking upon some of these overseas trips as nothing more than a junket, an extra form of remuneration or reward for the job they are doing. I might add that in most cases it is a job they are doing inadequately. If it is not for reward in some cases that they are going on these trips then in a number of cases it is for narrow Party political gain. 
Let me state  immediatey that I am not being so narrow as to suggest that there is no value in members of this Parliament, particularly those in the Executive who have the privilege of decision making, going overseas. Of course there is some value but there is a limit to everything and I consider that that limit has been overstepped. Let me give to the House some facts about overseas trips by Ministers in the last financial year. There were  27  ministerial overseas journeys last financial year by  19  of the  26  Ministers. The second point is that the poor fellows who missed out were, of course, with one exception, very junior Ministers such as the. Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes),  the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  and the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  The one exception was the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  who I understand is a senior Minister. The Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  and the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  were other Ministers who did not get away. The third point I want to make is that  9  of the Ministers went twice - another reward for seniority. 
But it is not only the number of trips in one year which is staggering; it is also the fact that this abuse is being compounded by so many of the journeys taking place in the relatively few weeks that this House sits. Here I shall not use examples from last year but from this year. It was only yesterday week that I struck Government members on an exposed nerve when I referred to the present junket of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  I had tried to get the call for a question without notice the previous day, the first day back in Parliament for honourable members after  10  days away. I expected the Prime Minister to be present when I put the question on the Wednesday, late on which day he was supposed to leave for the United States of America: unfortunately he was not in this House so the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  collected from me the first question that day - I received the first call. I asked a question about the Prime Minister's overseas trip but I would have much preferred to put the question to the Prime Minister himself. I asked:   . . what are the specific purposes of the Prime Minister's trip to the United States and the United Kingdom other than window dressing for Party political purposes? What can the Prime Minister do about  Nixonomics  and the European Common Market that his Treasurer and indeed the  Deputy  Prime Minister have failed to do in their recent journeys? Will the Prime Minister emulate his Foreign Minister by making a naive and nationally damaging election speech in New York? Will he bring back with him a hastily drawn up F1J2 contract? Will he disabuse our minds of the suspicion that the journey is being undertaken so that the Prime Minister may escape the scrutiny of this House for 3 of the relatively few weeks that the House sits? 
I do not withdraw one iota from the inferences in that question, particularly after the experiences of the last few days. I believe that everything that has happened has borne out the point I made in that question. This trip by the Prime Minister is nothing more than a political window dressing; it is a contempt of this Parliament. The Prime Minister should be here while this House is sitting. What on earth is he achieving. abroad? He is doing nothing more than reduce the standing of this country in the world. The only thing that is going for him is the shape of his wife's legs and that is about the only favourable publicity he is getting. The whole trip is a joke. We have learned that his speech at the banquet which the  President  gave him was so unctuous that it embarrassed all present. The Prime Minister is so close to the  President  of the United States that the latter had to ask how to pronounce his name at the beginning of the banquet. It is high time that we had a man of stature - indeed of calibre, as the Prime Minister of this country.  His  latest gaffe was to attack a leading candidate for the Democratic nomination for the Presidency of the United States of America,  Senator Edmund  Muskie, for predicting what we all know in our hearts to be most likely to happen - the dominance of the North Vietnam regime in the administration of South Vietnam as soon as the outside troops leave that country. AH in all, the Prime Minister's visit abroad is not only totally unnecessary but also a disaster and a tragedy for the standing of this country in the world. 
But it is not only the current Prime Minister's trip that is a disaster. I need turn to only 2 other junkets by Ministers which are taking place at the present time. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has gone to a meeting of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation in Rome, via other countries, and will be away until the end of November. The Minister for Repatriation has gone to open some fair in Singapore. These are nothing more than junkets. What sort of way is this to treat this Parliament? What sort of contempt is this for the people of this country who, as taxpayers, have to foot the bill for these useless projects? These are symptoms of the arrogance of being too long in power. 
This brings me to another line of these estimates, which deals with the conveyance of the Governor-General. Ministers of State and others by Royal Australian Air Force and civil aviation aircraft. I will dispose of this matter very quickly by asking the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay),  who is at the table, to find out the answers to 2 simple questions. Who footed the bill for the trip by the VIP aircraft with the Acting Prime Minister on board who, after opening a show at Clare on Saturday, 16th October last, moved on to Darwin, 
I think via Alice Springs? This trip, on his own admission in Darwin, was for no purpose other than to campaign for the Country Party candidates in the Northern Territory Legislative Council elections taking place that week. Similarly, who picked up the bill lor the Minister for Primary Industry who, on the same day, Saturday 16th October, travelled from Darwin to the Katherine races where he spent the afternoon in the company of 2 local Country Party candidates in the Legislative Council elections, together with the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and the pilot of the Minister's charter aircraft? I have made attempts to find out this information elsewhere without success. I think that they are legitimate questions to be asked when we are discussing these estimates. Are those who hold power so arrogant that they use public money to keep power by political campaigning at the expense of the public purse in this way? We in this chamber have the right to know the answers to these questions. 
The third and last line of these estimates with which 1 have time to deal refers to the Auditor-General's Office. I can only say, with so little time left, that we in this Parliament ought to be doing much more to protect the interests of the AuditorGeneral vis-a-vis the Government - the executive. I believe that these interests have suffered. There has been a growth of only 58 positions in the staff establishment of the Auditor-General's Office over a period of 10  yeaTs.  The period has also been characterised by a significant loss of trained and experienced audit staff. Anyone who wants support for my contention need only refer to the 127th report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts of this Parliament, which was presented to this House last April. I would like to have read out the final paragraph of that report which shows that the Auditor-General himself is on only the second level of the First Division of the Public Service, whereas a number of senior officers of the Public Service are on the first level of the First Division. I think that the Auditor-General, who is the watchdog for this Parliament and the people over the whole of the Public Service, ought to be on the first Level, because this would maintain the status and standing of the Auditor-General's Office - a most important office which this Parliament should protect. 
The contribution of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  need hardly be dealt with by me at any length. The fact is that he has stated that his knowledge of what is going on at Pine Gap has been obtained by way of overseas articles. This is the very point that those of us in the Australian Labor Party have been making, namely, that we would like to know more and if it is possible to learn about it from the Government. In fact, we would like to know only as much as United States Congressmen are allowed to know of these sorts of things. We would like the same sort of opportunities as are given to United States Congressmen to visit these places so that we can be better informed on these defence installations in Australia. 
I take this opportunity of speaking on the defence estimates to direct attention, of necessity very briefly in this debate, to matters surrounding which there are political differences, namely, the need for forward defence as it is called and the further integration of the armed Services and the subject of conscription. I hasten to add that the political differences surrounding these matters are within the Government parties. There are a number of sensible people on the Government benches who agree with the Opposition Labor Party's point of view on all these attitudes which I am about to outline. Also, before embarking on my opinions on these three subjects I want to state my disappointment that we seem to be no further advanced in instituting a sane, rational, detailed investigation of these important estimates. This, of course, cannot be done in a Committee of the Whole debating 'in the open' like this. We must have smaller, expert working committees to which we can call outside advisers and really seek information about the estimates rather than use the occasion to make some general points about defence as I am forced to do but which I would prefer to do in a general debate on defence if sufficient time were given in this chamber for such debates. 
The first point I want to make concerns the argument about forward defence and fortress Australia' - both of them inadequate phrases as indeed the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  said only half an hour ago - rendering most of the arguments concerning them fairly irrelevant. I want to say quite clearly that, along with my colleagues on this side of the House, I am a strong proponent of a mobile defence force based at home. This is not 'fortress Australia'. This can be, and in my concept is, in itself forward defence. To drive home my point let me merely repeat the points made by the right honourable member for Higgins in his speech today. Unfortunately I was not able to hear all of it as I was called out of the chamber. But certainly at the annual dinner of the Imperial Service Club in Sydney on 18th June last he made clear a number of points. He made it clear in that speech, firstly, that the stationing of troops abroad is not the only way in which forward defence . can be achieved; secondly, that we must seek to achieve a Navy of worthwhile strength - I support what the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  had to say about this earlier in this debate this afternoon - and thirdly, that such a Navy must be properly and constantly covered by air power, and that means landbased airpower or airpower based at home to a great extent. The right honourable member for Higgins said in that speech: 
And we can, and I think we must, keep an army in being which is capable of swift movement to the assistance of friendly nations if they are attacked. We can engage in joint planning with other countries who are willing to plan common defence. And all of these actions contribute to forward defence and would do so even if our forces were not actually stationed overseas. 
These are not the words of a dedicated member of the Australian Labor Party; these are the words of a very recent LiberalCountry Party Prime Minister who is using his head and not playing politics or playing on the emotions and fears of the Australian people for temporary political expediency. In case it is not clear, I repeat the reasons for the fears of the Opposition of having troops stationed on the Asian mainland, whether in Malaysia or Singapore or elsewhere. That fear is based on the knowledge that there are underlying racial and other tensions in those countries. We do not want to get caught up in those tensions or in the politics of that region. Contrary to what is heard in this country, that point of view is well understood in influential quarters in those countries. Lee Kuan Yew is not the only person in the Asian region with views. I venture to say that there are other Asian Ministers who hold a different point of view and who understand the ALP attitude. I have had the opportunity to speak privately to some of those Ministers and to put our position on forward defence - not fortress Australia but forward defence - in a nutshell, and I quote from a defence statement of my leader as long ago as 5th March 1969 but which is still relevant today. He said: 
A Labor government would re-organise Australian defences around highly-trained, highlymobile professional forces. Under a Labor government, Australia would acquire the capacity to deploy its military strength within 72 hours at any point within the South East Asian region. We -would maintain that capacity and affirm our involvement in regional defence by entering into joint training arrangements with our neighbour nations. We would expect our forces to train constantly throughout the region, and we would encourage the forces of other regional powers to train in Australia. A Labor government would, as a matter of the highest priority, negotiate arrangements designed to achieve a maximum standardisation of defence equipment throughout the region. We would enter into agreements with other regional powers to share the production of most of the necessary equipment, and to put procurement outside the region on a collective basis. These are policies more practical by far and more advantageous both to our neighbours and to ourselves than the pieties of the Prime Minister and the procrastination of the Minister for Defence. 
Those remarks apply now just as much as they did when the statement was made in March 1969. The second point that I wanted to mention in the few minutes that I have was the integration of our armed forces. The debate on integration and restructuring which has made defence organisation more effective and economic in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada and western Europe has barely touched Australia. Vague gestures have been made to defence reorganisation but little has been achieved. I remind honourable members that in 1957 a committee was established under the late General  Sir Leslie  Morshead to examine defence organisation. The committee's report was never made public and, quite ridiculously, 14 years later is still classified as a secret document. I ask the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  to tell me whether it still needs to be classified as a secret document. 
From what we hear about the present Ministry that could well be true. The Morshead committee recommended that the separate departments of Defence, Army, Navy and Air be amalgamated into a single Department of 
Defence under one Minister. This would have restored the basic direction of defence policy which existed until World War II, the demands of which created separate Service departments. I believe that those demands do not exist today; that there would be better co-ordination and better forward defence planning if there was integration and that the Morshead committee's report should be public property and available to this Parliament as an additional aid in the thinking of this nation on defence. 
The third point I want to mention briefly in the very few minutes left to me is the matter of conscription. Most people would agree that the loss of personal freedom entailed by conscription is an evil, but many believe it to be a necessary evil. Of course, these people are in the Government parties in this country at the moment. From an economic point of view the last belief is unwarranted. Under conscription men are inducted into the military forces without regard either to their civilian productivity or their personal preferences. Uncertainty as to whether they will be called up encourages potential conscripts to take hedging or evading actions which are costly to themselves and to society at large. The military services are encouraged to use manpower wastefully with respect to both quantity and quality. For all these reasons the real costs of maintaining a conscripted army are likely to be higher than those of maintaining a volunteer army. Unfortunately, conscription appears to be the cheaper alternative, but it appears so only because under it implicit taxes in kind on conscripts are substituted for explicit money taxes levied on all taxpayers. 
It is understandable that governments should often take a narrow budgetary view of the costs of alternative action rather than a broad social view. The additional taxes required to raise an all volunteer army may weigh more heavily in the political scales than the additional civilian production foregone. I believe that these points have not been made often. We are hearing the alternative point of view, particularly from the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  at the moment which suggests the terrible cost that would be involved to have an all volunteer army. I believe that there is an alternative point of view and I am only sorry that I have not time to put it in this debate. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in bis native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I am glad the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  has set the record straight on that matter. I think that most honourable members of this House, as indeed most members of the community, would abhor the personal attacks and personal abuse which is a characteristic of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  as well as other honourable members. I intend to stick to the estimates of the Attorney-General's Department which include appropriations for the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel, the Legal Service Bureaux and the Office of the Commissioner of Trade Practices as well as for the High Court of Australia and 10 other divisions. I want to touch on each one of the headings I have mentioned by description. 
First of all I refer to the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel. May I make it absolutely clear that I do not consider that enough has been done to clear up the bottleneck that is caused in this Office. Improvements may have been brought about by the setting up of the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel, but certainly we are far from perfection. Some of the old bottlenecks are well documented by a report of the Public Accounts Committee on financial regulations, tabled in this Parliament in November 1968. But has the position improved to any great extent? I doubt whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who is at the table, can feel very happy about the situation, nor can the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  in the Senate. Only last week there was a public hearing by the Public Accounts Committee at which an officer of the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel had to admit that unless matters were extremely urgent a period of 6 months was likely to elapse before his office could tackle the matter of drawing up some new regulations. This is no reflection, as far as I can ascertain, on any employees of that Department. It is a reflection on those who are responsible for the Department. 
This country is being badly governed for a number of reasons. One of those reasons clearly is the delay in adequate legislation, Bills, Ordinances and what-have-you coming before this House. That delay must be overcome. The witness for the office of the Parliamentary Counsel, who appeared before the Public Accounts Committee at the public meeting I mentioned earlier, divulged that the Office was 2 principal legal officers below establishment. But that, clearly, is not the whole reason for the problem. After my probing, I have come to the conclusion that the reason is timidity and red tape. Everything has to be checked and double checked by officers at the top. For goodness sake let us have a new, fresh approach. Let some younger people down the line have the responsibility for final decisions so that there are not hold-ups causing this country to be worse governed than it is. 
The second heading I mentioned was the Legal Service Bureaux. Of necessity I shall have to be brief on this subject. This service gives free legal advice to exservicemen. What a crying shame it is that such a service is not available to all citizens of this country. Does anybody think that justice is being dispensed fairly in this country at present? Is there anyone in Australia who thinks that a poor man in our country can get justice in the same way as a rich man? Of course that does not apply. The legal profession and some State governments make a valiant attempt. In my own State of South Australia we have a number of officers of the law society paid by the legal profession who are employed full time on interrogating citizens, subjecting them of necessity to a means test which almost unclothes them. These officers then virtually make the decision whether a poor person should be allocated to a lawyer who will then charge only a nominal amount based on the citizen's capacity to pay. No-one expects the lawyers doing these quasi-charity jobs to have the same heart in their jobs as they do in those jobs for which they are receiving full payment. 1 can only say that 1 am thoroughly looking forward to the Australian Labor Party taking over the government of this country so that we shall have a government which will see that recourse to justice is meted out fairly. The Legal Service Bureaux for ex-servicemen was a great start. It was, of course, set up by a previous Labor government. Over 20 years later, perhaps we shall have an extension of this service so that other citizens of this community can have recourse to a law service. 
The third heading 1 mentioned under the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department was the Office of the Commissioner of Trade Practices. I am watching the clock and 1 realise that I cannot allocate enough time to comment on the most enlightening reports of  Mr Bannerman,  the Commissioner of Trade Practices. Suffice it for me to say that the Restrictive Trade Practices Bill 1971 was considered by the Senate on Tuesday and was passed by it yesterday. I am looking forward to this legislation coming into this House, probably the week after next. We shall see then just how sincere are our political opponents in this Liberal-Country Party Government in this matter of restrictive trade practices. Let me say that the performance of the Attorney-General in the Senate during the course of the debate does not fill me with confidence that he has much sincerity in this matter. Let us hope that there is a different attitude in this House. 
Lastly I mention the High Court. This is merely an excuse, I must confess, to raise the whole question of the inadequate Constitution of this country. This is a matter I raised in my maiden speech in this Parliament over 18 months ago. It is a matter which I shall go on raising just as often as I find the opportunity to do so. I do not know who stated it, but it was truly said that we are in the jet age attempting to exist with a  horse  and buggy Constitution. Wherever we turn we are being inefficiently governed because of our out of date Constitution. Our road traffic laws are different from State to State. Anyone who has anything to do with the 6 Companies Acts of this country and the ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory and of the Northern Territory in this field of company law is beside himself trying to keep up with just how un-uniform these allegedly uniform Acts and ordinances are. I opened up a New South Wales newspaper only yesterday to learn that in that State exempt proprietary companies will not be obliged to have audits after all. This was something agreed upon after blood, sweat and tears had been expended by Committees of Attorneys-General and their officers. So much for the uniform laws under this Constitution and under this laissez-faireism that we have suffered in this country over the past 20 years and more. 
Let me remind this chamber, and anyone who is interested in this subject, that we on this side are not just asking for anything other than what has been agreeed upon by a joint committee comprising members from both sides of this chamber and established during  Sir Robert  Menzies's period of prime ministership of this country. J am referring to the Joint Select Committee on Constitutional Review. The report of that Committee was presented to this Parliament by command on 26th November 1959. That Committee comprised 10 members of this Parliament, 5 from the Government side and 5 from the Opposition. The late  Senator Sir Neil  O'sullivan was the  Chairman.  Members included  Mr A.  R. Downer, as he then was, now  Sir Alec  Downer, the High Commissioner for Australia in the United Kingdom;  Mr Drummond,  a member of the Country Party;  Mr Hamilton,  another Government Party member; Percy Joske now  Mr Justice  Joske, and also  Senator Wright  who is still a member of the Government. They are the people who agreed to the signing of the report of that Committee. Only a very few minority reports were appended to the report. The matters which were agreed upon are as important today as they were then. They are as important today for the good government of this country as they ever were. Until this Government realises that we are living under a Constitution which is totally inadequate for the proper governing of this country we will not have proper laws for the governing of Australia. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is Australia supplying arms to Pakistan at the present time. 
If so, are these arms being supplied under South East Asia Treaty Organisation arrangements, what is their description and value, and what are the terms of payment. 
Has Australia supplied arms to Pakistan under SEATO or any other arrangements since 1st January 1965. 
If so, what is the (a) description and (b) value of those arms and what were the terms of payment. 
Does the Prime Minister agree that our gold and foreign exchange reserves are now vastly beyond our needs for maintaining our trade? Is it not a fact that this surplus, caused by hot money and other foreign investment, among other disadvantageous effects contributes to excess liquidity in those very areas which do not create employment? Is it not also a fact that the Government, in its budgetary and .monetary policies is syphoning off liquidity from those very areas which do create employment, thus causing serious unemployment in many areas today? Will the Government now revise its policies by controlling foreign investment, thus checking inflation and encouraging employment instead of encouraging foreign investment as the Prime Minister did during his recent trip abroad? 
asked the Minister for 
Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Was the sending of notices relating to deferment from National Service delayed this year, at least in South Australia, so that young citizens received their notices 4 months later than in previous years. 
Has there been a change regarding deferments by placing a time limit on them irrespective of whether or not the course for which deferment was granted has been completed or not. 
Are those 6,000 or so younger citizens whose National Service has been deferred being called to medical examinations now; if so, why. 
Are those who are claiming avoidance of National Service on the grounds of conscientious objection being asked to undergo a medical examination before going to Court in the hope that they will be declared medically unfit. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the Mouse of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The bumble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened wilh inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power shceme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this. lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly, future Australians will benefit  by  being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength  in  this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, us in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I am the fourth Opposition member in succession who has risen to speak on this group of States Grants Bills. In case anybody things that I am now going to criticise Government members because of this, 1 hasten lo say that this is not so. The fact is that the Government feels happy because these measures have increased the amount of funds available to the States. To the extent that this is so, 1 congratulate the Government. There is no doubt that the money made available in these 3 Bills is a great improvement on what was made available in the past. Although there has been no collusion between Opposition members, let me hasten to say - inasmuch as we have not got together to prepare what we have to say - all of us are coming out wilh one theme: There should not be complacency, there is a little bit too much smugness and there are tremendous problems still left in the States. The Opposition is looking ahead at these problems and at the way they can be overcome. 
First of all I want to deal with the 3 Bills separately. As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who led for the Opposition, said, the first 2 arose out of the Premiers Conference and Australian Loan Council meetings in June 1971. I am extremely disappointed that these Premiers Conferences are not open to the public. I took the trouble to come from Adelaide on the occasion of a Premiers Conference in 1970 in order to attend a conference which was particularly vital for my State. Because I feel that there is a necessity for Commonwealth politicians like myself to have greater co-operation with the State parliaments, I took the trouble during a parliamentary recess to come to Canberra with the Premier of South Australia in order to better acquaint myself with South Australia's problems. I arrived at the door of the Senate chamber just as it was being closed in my face. The States with Liberal and Country Party governments voted with the then Prime Minister for the whole proceedings to be in camera. I object to this. I am glad that the Premier of South Australia and the Labor Premier of Western Australia have objected to this. These sorts of deliberations should be in public so that the whole of the community may know what is going on at these most important conferences. 
The second point I want to make about these Premiers Conferences is, whether they take place in February, April or June, we are ricocheting from one crisis in Commonwealth-State financial relations to another. I want to reiterate what has been said by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  for the second year in succession. He made the point so well, that we need long term planning in this matter of Commonwealth-State relations. The smugness and the complacency of the Government seems to arise from a belief that, because it dragged $43m out of the air in April 1970 as extra grants to the States and another $22.4m as it has done in one of these Bills, the extra money will cure the problems. This is not the cure for Commonwealth-State relations problems. The challenge for us all, and the challenge which we in the Australian Labor Party are prepared to meet, is for what I would like to call and what some of my colleagues have already called co-operative federalism - getting down together and discussing the problems, not just of where the money will be obtained but the sort of problems that the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  raised so ably in his contribution to this debate this afternoon. One of these is the great problem of education. 
We should be discussing the sort of problem that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  brought to this chamber earlier this afternoon when he announced the grant to the States which we expect to debate in the autumn session but which we hope we will have a chance to debate in the next few days before the Parliament rises for the Christmas recess. The Prime Minister brought down a paper this afternoon relating to the grants designed to overcome the shocking unemployment problem which is prevalent particularly in country districts. I wonder just what cooperation there was before that paper was brought down, between the Commonwealth and State governments and between the Commonwealth Public Service and the State Public Services on the real needs. I do not think it is- satisfactory for us as politicians - although this is one of our duties and certainly one we must continue to observe as federal politicians - to bring these problems to this Parliament. It is not satisfactory for it to be done in isolation from the States and the structures that exist in the States. 
So I come back to co-operative federalism. I hope to come back time and again when 1 have the opportunity in this House, to a discussion of a new era in the management of this country, an era when Commonwealth parliamentarians, State parliamentarians, the Commonwealth Public Service and the State Public Services gel together not just on occasions as they do at the moment for ministerial conferences but at all levels so that each will understand far more clearly the others' problems.  We have a Government at the moment which is chopping and changing from one Premiers Conference to another. 
As 1 have said already, at least the first Bill, which deals with revenue arrangements - the States Grants Bill (No. 2)- has meant more revenue for the States. The next one, the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill, has meant more of the loan funds for the States. 1 would also" like to say something about the third Bill, the States Grants (Special Assistance) Bill, which was the subject of the speech of my colleague the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  Of course, this Bill and the second reading speech of the Minister should be studied only in conjunction with a study of the Commonwealth Grants Commission report, a study which has been done extremely well by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, particularly in relation to his own State. 
Let me say in relation to South Australia that we are still getting only interim grants. In the first year that we found it necessary, due to discrimination by the then Prime Minister Gorton against our State, to go to the Commonwealth Grants Commission we got an amount of S5m. As yet the detailed accounts of South Australia have not been studied in depth for the year ended 30th June 1971 to know whether S5m was the correct amount. I believe that it will be found to have been insufficient. I believe that as soon as this study has been done we will find that South Australia is entitled to more than the $5m it has got to date; similarly with the S7m that has been granted as an interim amount relating to the current financial year. From all the inquiries I have made in South Australian Government circles this also will be insufficient when the formula is applied to the South Australian budget. So to an extent we in South Australia are working at a disadvantage at the moment in relation to the amounts allocated under this special assistance Bill. However, there are some aspects of the report which I do welcome. 
I want to emphasise again that I agree with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition than there is too much of a short term nature in the whole way that the amounts are worked out. But I do at least feel satisfaction that the old argument that has gone on in the past as to whether the basis upon which the calculation is made for the special assistance for the claimant States should be New South Wales and Victoria alone or whether it should be the 4 nonclaimant States, seems now to have ceased and that those responsible have made up their minds that it should be New South Wales and Victoria. At the same time I say on behalf of either New South Wales or Victoria that nobody is doing the necessary study to enable us to know whether one of those 2 States is disadvantaged in relation to the other. There ought to be far more work of the sort that is done by the Commonwealth Grants Commission being done in relation to all the State budgets. That is another aspect of the concept that 1 have when I think of cooperative federalism. 
It certainly would. I agree with the Deputy Leader of the Opposition when he says that, and I think that he will agree with me when I say that this is the concept that we have in CommonwealthState relations - of looking at the whole . area, nol only those areas which are the States'- responsibilities but also those areas which are the Commonwealth's responsibilities so that the State governments will understand our responsibilities as well. When we apply Australian Labor Party ideas of indicative planning - the sort of planning that is carried out in Japan - we will, of course, involve not only the government sector but also the private sector as is done in Japan and in most other countries which apply indicative planning. But with a federalism such as ours we shall, of course, include the State governments and we will all be in agreement on the targets of where we are going and not be working in competition with each other to the extent that we are al the present time. 
We certainly will not need to coerce the States to do anything of the sort, just as we will not have to coerce the private sector to do this because the private sector at this time, through its elected industry and commerce representatives, is talking in the same terms as we are of the need for overall plans and a target. If the Minister looks at this country objectively at the moment the only people who seem to be so wooden that they do nol see the need for this indicative planning are the people who are charged with the task of governing this country and who are doing it so badly. There is much more that I would like to have said about planning in our community, but I know there are others who want to enter this debate. In fact, one of them has just put a note on my desk to say that my allocated time hits expired, so I will leave it there. 
1 congratulate the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt),  even though he comes from the other side of the House, for being able to get his message across in 5 minutes. I promise those who are in charge of the business of the House that tonight I will be equally brief, having suffered for 65 minutes while a statement, admittedly important, on industrial relations was read. At least the first 20 minutes said nothing. To be fair, I must confess that the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  took a lead from the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  in taking equally long over his statement. I am entering into this debate because I have a particular interest in the Jon Preserving Co-operative Ltd. Honourable members will remember that we are dealing with 2 Bills cognately - the South Australia Grant (Fruit Canneries) Bill 1971 and the New South Wales Grant (Leeton Co-operative Cannery Ltd) Bill 1971. The first of those 2, which relates to my own State of Sou'.h Australia, has special advantages for not only Jon Preserving Co-operative Ltd but also Riverland Fruit Products Co-operative Ltd which was mentioned by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles). 
I mention my own special interest in this matter. At one stage of my career I conducted the audit of Jon Preserving Cooperative in the days before it was a cooperative. Also, the factory is situated only just outside my electorate and there are many residents of the electorate of Adelaide who find employment at the Jon factory between the months of January and April in the canning season. I am motivated to get to my feet because of the speech by the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn).  I cannot altogether blame him for being so misinformed on this Bill because I believe that the Minister's second reading speech did not give the full picture it should have given on a measure such as this. The honourable member for Balaclava has assumed that the money made available in these measures is a grant. It is not. I said that I would confine my remarks to the effect the Bill has on the Jon Preserving Co-operative Ltd. I would sum up the position with that co-operative by saying that it is no more than a moratorium on S78O.O0O worth of debts held by that particular co-operative. 
These debts were incurred in earlier years, for very good reasons, most of them beyond the control of the 400 fruit growers who are shareholders in this cooperative. I am referring to the devaluation of sterling, to adverse crop yields and to equipment costs. Indeed, I now go further and say that without this help, half of which is coming to the Commonwealth under this Bill, those 400 fruit growers would be without a market, without anywhere to sell their fruit, and would be a burden on the city. Admittedly I have owned up to my own links with this particular company, but it is right and proper for a city member to state that there are good decentralisation reasons why a measure like this should go through this Parliament, particularly a measure which provides not a grant but a loan. 
I strongly support the Opposition's amendment to this Bill because the Bill does not set out the terms of the agreement between the Commonwealth and the State. I know, because of my particular relationships with the company, what that company's agreement is with the State Government of South Australia. It is strictly bound to put aside 4 per cent of the $780,000 each year by way of a provision before striking a profit. Four per cent is not a high interest rate or a large provision but it does show that this is definitely a loan and not a grant being made by the Government. I believe that this sort of detail, if not set out in the terms of the Bill itself, could at least have been disclosed to the House in the second reading speech of the Minister. It is because 1 have only just ascertained this information and have not had an opportunity to pass it on to my colleagues that we have such an amendment as this. But even with this information an amendment would still be necessary if we are to do our proper task of keeping the Government on its toes and ensure that it informs this Parliament of all the details of a measure such as this. 
I repeat that this is a loan, not a grant, and that the Co-operative is bound to put aside 4 per cent each year as a provision on the full amount of this loan. I say further that this Co-operative would have had to go into liquidation without a measure such as this. Before this measure was arranged by the South Australian Government the liability of the company was as much as $100,000 a year - $50,000 in capital and $50,000 in interest - a crippling amount to be found and one that the Cooperative could not have withstood. I might add that under the agreement with the State Government there is strict con. trol over this Co-operative and I am very pleased to tell the House that with this help from the South Australian Government, now reinforced with help to the State Government by the Commonwealth Government under this Bill, the Cooperative in the last 2 years has made a profit. In the year ended 30th September 1971 the profit was $33,000 and in the year ended 30th September 1970 it was $25,000. This shows that there have been prudent operations which have not only kept about 600 of my electors in a job in the canning season but also have kept 400 fruit growers on their properties in the electorate of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles). 
I do not want to give the impression in the short time that I will spend on this Bill that the canning industry is over its problems. I do not want to give the impression that the particular co-operative in which I am interested - the Jon Preserving Cooperative Ltd - is over its problems. These problems are directly related to. the export trade of canned fruits. The co-operative in which I am interested has a turnover of $3m each year. It pays $lm to its fruit growers for peaches, pears and apricots. I have mentioned the employment of 600 people in the canning works. All these people who are involved in the industry are extremely dependent upon world trade conditions and those conditions are related to Britain going into the European Economic Community. The industry needs time. There are hopes that in a couple of years time demand will have grown in Japan. In the meantime, if tariff barriers go up against our canning industry overnight we are going to be in great trouble not only from countries which can provide canned fruits from within the Community such as Spain and even more so, Italy, but also from competition from the United States of America. We have some hard decisions to make. 
My great complaint about the Government is not only exemplified in this amendment which we are moving tonight, about not giving us sufficient details on financial provisions such as this, but also about the Government not at the same time talking about the problems of the canned fruits industry over the next few years and the sort of advice that will be given to this industry in its reconstruction. Does the Government feel, from its marketing knowledge, that when Great Britain goes into the European Economic Community Japan will take its place as a country with which we can trade in this industry? Should we now be giving a lead to this industry in its reconstruction even to the extent of pulling trees rather than planting new trees? 1 promised that I would not take long in my remarks. I hope that I have raised one or two questions to which the Minister will apply his mind and in. relation to which he will give some details when he is replying to this debate. In his contribution to the debate the honourable member for Hume did not give us a great deal of detail about the financial situation of the particular co-operative in his district. However, I must confess that once such help as this is given to one co-operative the onus is on the Government to give it to all cooperatives. In saying that, however, I want to congratulate the South Australian Minister of Agriculture who really has been the person responsible for Riverland and Jon products receiving this help from the Commonwealth Government. I can only point the bone at the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture and any of those who are responsible for the district in which this co-operative to which the honourable member for Hume referred lies for not seeing that the Commonwealth Government helped that co-operative equally. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. At this time, when we newer Australians are' about to enjoy one of our traditions, namely the Christmas holidays, has the Government at last some good news for those older Australians, our Aboriginal people, particularly concerning their modest land rights claims? 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
What is the average cost in each Suite of a one-bedroom unit built, with assistance under the Aged Persons Homes Act, since 1st July 1971. 
What was the average assistance given per unit under the Act in each State during the same period. 
ls it a fact that in most cases individual senior citizens must donate the difference to the association providing the unit. 
ls it also a fact that his Department will allow pensioners, who make such donations to associations for one-bedroom units built with assistance received under the Act, to relate only $2,500 of the donation to housing and thus include any donation over $2,500 in the means as assessed of the pensioner when calculating the pension. 
If so, in view of the unreasonableness of the figure of $2,500 in relation to the amount the pensioner is obliged to donate, will the Government consider increasing this amount. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Australia will not allow a citizen enjoying Australian nationality to also hold the nationality of another nation; if not, why not. 
Is it also a fact that many migrants in Australia are deterred from becoming naturalised because dual nationality is not permitted. 
Can he say which countries allow their citizens to hold dual nationality. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon no'.ice: 
Can he say whether the French Government has indicated that it will continue with nuclear testing in the atmosphere at its Pacific tests centre in Polynesia; if so, what are the announced details. 
Has the Australian Government protested against these tests; if so, what are the details of the protests and what plans are there for future protests 
Is it a fact that atmosphere radiation from these tests produces a cumulative danger which jeopardises the health of all people, particularly children, that radiation particles build up in the bones and thyroid glands of children, hence subjecting them to the dangers of bone cancer, leukemia and thyroid carcinoma, that the radioactive elements can remain in the body for many years and that they can result in the mutilation of the reproductive cells leading to the birth of deformed and diseased children. 
What evidence is there of radioactive fallout in Australia resulting from the French Pacific nuclear tests carried out to date. 
I am rather surprised that the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  has taken  so  little of the time available to him. I support the amendment moved by my colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  I have gathered from listening to the honourable member for Isaacs that he for one has not properly studied the amendment that has been proposed. I think it would be worth my while at this stage reading it again. It reads: 
That the House has no confidence- 
I beg the honourable member's pardon. I started to read the wrong amendment, but I might just as well have read it because the House does have no confidence in this Government. Unfortunately, that amendment was defeated earlier today. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports is as follows: 
That all the words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the Bill in its present form should be withdrawn because it is unselective in its application and gives no consideration to balanced economic development'. 
The fact is that the system of investment allowances is merely one of the manifestations of the present Government's stop-go economic policy. It is a fact that in 1960, when there was another recession of the sort that we are suffering today - a recession brought on by a Liberal-Country Party Government, the type of government that unfortunately we are suffering today - the Government then lifted the investment allowance and brought it back a little while later when in its view the situation had quickly changed. The present Government is attempting the same stop-go policy today. It is an excellent manifestation of the difference between the attitude of the Government to economic planning in this country and the attitude of the Labor Party Opposition. 
The lifting of the investment allowance at this time last year was one of the number of measures ostensibly taken to attack inflation. Another of the measures was a drastic cut in government expenditure which has created great hardship in many areas in the intervening period. This policy was continued in the Budget introduced on 17th 
August, about 6 months later, by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  At that time many of us on this side of the House pointed out that the policy was completely wrong, that events bad overtaken the Government. Whereas there might have been some excuse at this time last year for an attack on inflation by some measures - I am not going to defend the sort of measures that were taken - by the time the Budget was introduced in August, as I have already said, events had overtaken the Government and the policies it was pursuing were wrong. 
We were proved right in no time.In November the Government was already beginning to relent. We saw such measures as grants to the States for the relief of unemployment in non-metropolitan areas. A few months later the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  at the Premiers Conference gave further grants to the States for the same purpose, lifted at long last, even though to a miserable extent, the unemployment benefit, and relented to pressure for reinstatement of the investment allowance. I have given that outline in order to show that this is merely one part of the overall economic policy of the Government. I do this to attack the policy as a stop-go policy which is creating great hardship in this country. If the policy were effective some of us might feel that it was worthwhile, but in fact it is following outworn economic attitudes. 
In an earlier debate today the seasonally adjusted figures for unemployment were cited. I want to make it quite clear that the number of unemployed at the end of January last was  120,574.  That figure was supplied by the Bureau of Census and Statistics in conjunction with the Department of Labour and National Service. At that date vacancies as a proportion of unemployment were down to  37.6  per cent. That figure has never been lower in the years for which I have seen statistics. As recently as October  1970  vacancies as a proportion of unemployment reached  115.7  per cent. That is just one indicator of the seriousness of unemployment in this country today. But it is not enough for somebody such as myself, as a part of the alternative government of this country, to talk about the wrongs of the present Government's policies. Earlier today we debated a motion that the House take note of a statement on the economy made by the Treasurer last Thursday. In that debate it was indicated that a viable alternative policy is being put forward by the alternative government of this country. That policy is not one of creating unemployment in order to cure inflation. The policy is one of direct intervention in the economy of this country. The Opposition believes in a prices policy for this country. It believes in long term planning so that business men in the private sector as well as the many different areas of the government sector know what the overall aims of the central government are. 
With much pleasure I draw to the honourable member's attention the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  earlier this afternoon when he outlined our prices policy at some length. The honourable member willlearn more from that. It is a policy of a prices justification authority to determine whether there is justification for the prices being claimed for the basic commodities in our community. The honourable member who is interjecting comes from South Australia.  His  own Party in South Australia for the number of years it was the Government in South Australia by reason of a gerrymander held to such a policy of intervention by a prices commissioner in that State. I will state for his benefit and for the benefit of the House, because he has asked me about our prices policy, some of the details of the South Australian policy. I am grateful for his intervention. The prices control legislation has helped to keep prices of goods and services down in South Australia. IfI sound cryptic it is because of the short time at my disposal. Price increases are only approved after a thorough investigation has been made of cost increases incurred and the ability of the company or industry to carry some part of them. I have been challenged to give the policy of my Party and I am outlining now for the benefit of the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  the system in South Australia, the system to be followed by a Federal Labor government when it takes over the reins of government in this country. In addition in South Australia arrangements exist wilh many industries whereby, although the maximum prices or rates of their goods and services' are no longer fixed under the Prices Act, details of the proposed price increases, together with the reasons therefor, are submitted for examination by the Prices Branch 14 days prior to their implementation. Not infrequently such increases are deferred, withheld or reduced following discussions with the Branch. This policy ensures that unwarranted increases are not implemented, thus resulting in substantial savings to consumers. This type of action has helped to keep a number of prices and ra.es below those of other States. Another point to be made about this policy is that a close watch is a'so maintained over all price increases whether or not there is any agreement with the industry concerned. Where an increase appears unwarranted, explanations are sought. An example is the excessive margin applied last year by steel distributors on sales of less than one ton. In South Australia action was taken which resulted in the margin being reduced substantially. Action taken in this way acts as a deterrent against excessive price increases being proposed. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament 
Assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That they have no objection to the Aboriginal Embassy being on the lawns outside Parliament House. 
That they believe that the Aborigine, in common with all other Australian citizens, have a right to assemble in any peaceful manner of their own choice. 
And that they would object to any law that would make their being there illegal. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government does not enact any law that would detract from or hinder the rights of the Aborigines to be there. 
And further that the Government instructs its officers not to interfere with the Aborigines who are peacefully assembled outside Parliament House. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
1  have to thank 2 honourable members. First I have to thank the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  for a nice reference to my shirt, or the colour of it. I want to tell him and other honourable members and anybody else who is interested that it was made in this country, by good Australian workers. I will come to that in a moment. Secondly 1 want to thank the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  for allowing me to take his place in the debate, as he will be speaking after the dinner suspension. I say that because I cannot get back after the dinner adjournment and that reminds me of the reason why  I  am taking part in this debate. I have been stimulated to do so by some remarks made late on Thursday night by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  who flattered me saying how sorry he was that I had not taken part in the debate on the second reading of the Bill. He mentioned some verbal altercations I was supposed to have had with the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  and he want on to say something that is completely untrue. He said that I was surrounded by utter confusion in regard to tariff policy. I want him to know that at one stage I thought he was one of the honourable members in this chamber who were attempting to raise the standard of debate and to talk about issues rather than personalities, particularly in an area like this in which he has some particular responsibility. 
If the Minister had really tried to study the policies of the Australian Labor Party he would know that what he said was quite untrue. The Labor Party is united. In all the various difficult aims that anybody who has responsibility for the government of this country has, relating to economic policy, whether it be full employment, doing away with inflation or other things, the first priority must be to keep the work force of this country employed. At the same time this does not mean that we break ourselves down into free traders on the one hand and protectionists on the other. Our policy shows that we have an ad hoc approach to these matters. We are extremely interested in all of the reports of the Tariff Board. We have studied them individually. This is our purpose here and now in the Committee stage of this debate. If the honourable member for Wakefield has anybody to complain about in relation to the way in which we are discussing these Tariff  Board reports at the Committee stage. I think it ought to be the Minister for the remarks he made at the end of his second reading speech, when he invited me to get up at the Committee stage and make quite clear what I am making clear now: That I believe I belong to a Party which - this hardly needs saying - is united behind its spokesman on matters of trade, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  He pointed out quite clearly that full employment is our No. 1 aim. It could not be anything else for a party that looks after the sort of people in the community that we look after, whose jobs need protecting. 
I am particularly interested in the motor industry.  Mr Chairman,  you have been kind enough to say that you will allow a little latitude. I use this industry as an example of the sort of principles that are coming up in the individual Tariff Board reports that are before us. I am particu larly interested in the motor industry and, therefore, particularly interested in what the honourable member for Wakefield had to say about the motor industry. I represent the electorate of Adelaide. 
I thank the honourable member for Grayndler for his compliment. None of the motor factories are within the borders of my electorate but a tremendous number of people living within the borders of my electorate work in that industry. The honourable member for Wakefield mentioned - I agree with him - that, for the last 20 years, the economic planning of the Government which he supports has been so poor that we now have the dangerous situation of there being more motor companies trying to produce cars in Australia than the market will service. Many of the policies that the Government has implemented to increase the Australian content of motor vehicles to 65 per cent and, now, to 85 per cent and 95 per cent are not helping this present situation at all. 
However, from that point onwards 1 disagree with the honourable member for Wakefield because I do not think that the answer will be to reduce tariffs and throw thousands of people out of employment, which was the implication, as 1 took it, of his remarks. This solution would not help even the electors of the electorate of Wakefield. I will apologise in time if I have misunderstood the honourable member. However, I point out to him, and to anybody else who agrees with his point of view in regard to the motor industry, that the only way to achieve rationalisation in this industry is by more solid long term planning to ensure that individual company decisions are not made as they are now likely to be made with the Japanese joining up with British Leyland Motor Corporation, with nobody at the Chrysler Company knowing about that amalgamation, and Chrysler joining up with some other Japanese organisation. Suddenly we will have more capacity to produce, rather than a rationalisation of the industry to reduce the number of motor manufacturers to. say, 3 which is about the number that can be contained in Australia at present. 
The examples that the honourable member for Wakefield used were excellent - he cited the United States and so on - but I cannot agree with him when he points to Sweden as an example of the sort of policies that we ought to be following. Sweden does not have to compete with countries like Japan to the extent that we do. The freight rates on motor cars from Japan to the European nations mean that the Swedes do not have in their own country the competition from lower wage rate countries to the extent that Australia has. 
I thank the honourable member for further information about the Volvo factory. On some future occasion I must debate with him the information that I have about Sweden's economy and our own as examples in this area. However, I shall come back to the point that I made earlier. I was stimulated to rise in this debate by the remarks of the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp).  I can say only that his excuse must have been the lateness of the hour on Thursday night. I have complete confidence - I have gone back and read from- 
I do  not  know under what standing order you made your ruling,  Mr Chairman,  except that if you are bringing me back to the- 

 - Mr Chairman, you do not want me to look at the Standing Orders now so perhaps you could quote to me the standing order to which you are referring. 

 - Mr Chairman, you have confused me as to the point we have reached in this debate. I notice that my time has almost expired. However, during the course of my remarks, I referred to the- 

 Dr J. F. CAIRNS (Lalor)- by leave- I shall not take more than a couple of minutes, because I should like to refer now to what the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  said about the Special Advisory Authority's report on man made fabrics. It is true that this is a shuttle service. It is true, as the honourable member said, that it has been backwards and forwards to the Board or to the Advisory Authority since 1961 and that, broadly speaking, a decision has been made one way this time and the opposite way the next time. This seems to be an unsatisfactory situation. However, I would like to know what else can be done and what the honourable member for Wakefield would do. Does he think that the protection is too high? Does he think it ought to be at the level at which it was fixed last year? I remember the debate we had in this House last year or the year before in which a reduction was made. We had had a lot of representations from the industry concerned. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Can the Minister say whether there is a serious shortage of satisfactory nursing home beds in Australia and that the resources of State Governments are insufficient to satisfy needs. 
Was he informed recently by the South Australian Minister for Health that the South Australian Government has before it 2 proposals which qualify for Commonwealth assistance and which provide an additional 600 nursing home beds costing $ 13.3m. 
Is it a fact thai these 2 projects will impose a crippling strain on loan funds available to the South Australian Government for health and hospital services and that all that is available by way of assistance from the Commonwealth Government under the States Grants (Nursing Homes) Act 1969 is $465,000. 
Will the Government increase substantially the allocation of funds available under the Act to alleviate the problems of sick aged citizens. 
I ask the Treasurer whether he has studied the successful results of the South Australian Prices Commission which has been supported by his Liberal colleagues in that State? Does he agree with  Mr Aubrey  Jones, distinguished former  chairman  of the United Kingdom Prices and Incomes Board, that the mistake made in that country was to restrain incomes without having the structures to restrain prices? Does he still hold to the view that a prices justification tribunal should be established in Australia? 
 Mr Speaker,  T wish to make a personal explanation. 
I do,  Mr Speaker.  Yesterday, the Treasurer - I will wait until he is listening- 
Well,  Mr Speaker,  I think you will agree that it is courtesy for me to wait until the Treasurer is listening fo the charge 1 am making. Next time, I will continue. Yesterday, the Treasurer in an answer to a question from me said: 
I  will make available to the honourable  member a  copy of another address that  1  made in which  I  said that there may be grounds for a prices notification scheme, which needed to be examined. There is a very big difference between notification and justification - a very big difference. The honourable gentleman would be wise in framing his questions to make sure they are based soundly on facts.  1 have looked at this speech, a copy of which was given to me as the Treasurer promised. Nowhere are the words 'prices notification scheme' used. Indeed, nowhere can I find the word 'notification'. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
How many positions are provided on the establishment of the (a) Animal Industry and Agriculture Branch and (b) Forestry, Fisheries, Wild Life and National Parks Branch of the Northern Territory Administration? 
What are the numbers for the corresponding sections in the Northern Territory Division of the Department of the Interior, Canberra? 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assem bled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your, petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Craft Council of Australia be represented on the Federal Government Committee to investigate the role of the crafts as an art form. 
Your petitioners respectfully request that you will appoint a nominee of the Craft Council of Australia to the above Committee. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As 60 often happens in this House, we move with great speed from one subject to another which is not really very related to the first, in this case from defence and foreign affairs to domestic airline policy in Australia. We of the Australian Labor Party Opposition have raised this matter in the Parliament today to show our concern for Trans-Australia Airlines, the people's airline. All the signs are that this community asset, this example of public enterprise, is being subjected to unfair treatment by this Liberal-Country Party Government because of the misguided, doctrinaire attitude of this Government. There is a need for evening up the attitude of the Government. At the moment there is a serious Government preference in favour of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. 

 Mr Speaker, let me make it quite clear that I am not taking part in this debate today with the purpose of denigrating Ansett. My purpose is not to drive a nail in the coffin of that piece of enterprise. Whether we like it or not, as my colleague the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has said earlier on in this debate, the two-airline policy is here to stay. The wording of the matter of public importance we have raised implies this. We recognise the need for even-handed treatment of our airlines. The question is: On what conditions is it here to stay? Is it to be a condition that we have an overall environment in which the private airline will be mollycoddled at the expense of the community, or are we to have a situation which we on this side of the House want, namely one in which the people's airline, TAA. will not be shackled in the interests of private enterprise but will be set free to compete in the interests of the community. 
Ansett Transport Industries has the vast resources of the present Government to stand up and fight for it. Some of these resources are being fed into the coffers of the Liberal and Country Parties. This - we must face the facts- is its payoff. TAA has no such opportunities. Fortunately we have the Auditor-General to see to it that TAA cannot contribute to Party funds. So TAA must rely on the courage of its Chairman, who is appointed by the Government, and on members of the Australian Labor Party Opposition in this House to stand and put its case. We think it is a matter of urgency that we should do so today. 

 Mr Speaker, in case there is anyone noting my words who considers this account of mine of the position in which we find ourselves in this debate a biased one, I draw attention not to the words of politicians but to those charged with the task of running TAA. I ask honourable members to have a look at what was said by the late  Sir Giles  Chippendall when he retired as  Chairman  of TAA. He made a sensational series of announcements about his thoughts on Government internal airline policy. In particular he said that he believed that TAA should not be hamstrung by such policy and that it should be allowed to operate its aircraft as it wished within the limits of very general overall policy. Then there are the courageous words of the present TAA  Chairman,  Air Chief Marshal  Sir Frederick  Scherger. He has not minced his words. The 'Canberra Times' of 13th December last reported  Sir Frederick  Scherger as having said that the. 2-airline policy in Australia had been a kindly wet nurse to the non-aviation activities of  Sir Reginald  Ansett. According to the report, he went on: 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who represents the Minister for Civil Aviation in this House, finished bis speech on the note of the 2-airline policy. This is completely irrelevant to the matter before us. As the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  said when opening this debate on a matter of public importance, we had a debate on this subject only a couple of weeks ago in which the Australian Labor Party - the alternative government of this country - made it clear that it was not tampering with the 2-airline policy. The issue today is completely different. I am proud to have been given the opportunity at the. last moment - the arrangement was that there would be only 2 speakers from the Opposition - to speak on this matter. I am proud to be able to stand here, and on behalf of the Opposition condemn the Government for its failure to take advantage of so many opportunities in the past. 
Government speakers have not been able to stand up in this place and talk with the national interest in mind. Instead the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who is representing the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood),  gave us a sad list of lost opportunities that occurred when the restrictive trade practices legislation was before this House. At that time nothing was done about monopolies. As I have pointed out, we have, just had something completely irrelevant from the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. While such speeches are being made honourable members from this side of the House at any rate are receiving telegrams on this issue from interested people in their electorates. They are receiving telegrams not least of all from those people, who are working in Ansett Transport Industries Ltd whose future employment is so much in doubt because such a system has been allowed to continue, to operate in this country whereas this is not the case in the other so-called bastions of free enterprise. 
There are several restrictive trade practices Acts in the United States of America, but the one that is particularly pertinent to the situation which faces us in Australia today is the Clayton Act. That Act, under sections 7 and 8, prohibits any corporation from acquiring another corporation if the effect of acquisition is to create a monopoly or to substantially lessen competition. Are we to say that a takeover of the nature that is taking place in Australia will not lessen competition? Should we not have the structures, as the Opposition suggests, so that at least the national interest can be determined? If an inquiry shows that a lessening of competition, in the terms of the Clayton Act, will take place as a result of a takeover, then there is an end to that particular merger or takeover. 
In the United Kingdom there is a Monopolies Commission run not by a progressive Labor government, I may add, but by a Conservative Government which would look upon the present Liberal Government in Australia as a brother, although as a very slow and unprogressive brother. But under the Monopolies and Mergers Acts of 1948 and 1963 in the United Kingdom the Government can refer to the Monopolies Commission for inquiry and report a proposed merger or a completed merger if that merger will create or enhance a situation in which one-third or more of any trade is in the hands of any one person or group, or if the gross value of the assets to be taken over exceeds 5m or $10m. Is anybody going to suggest that that section in the Monopolies and Mergers Acts in the United Kingdom would not be pertinent to the situation with which we are faced in Australia today? 
For the last 23 years this Government has had opportunity after opportunity to introduce such an Act into this Parliament. There were the proposals of  Sir Garfield  Barwick which have been mentioned already today. When I knew that I was to be given the opportunity to speak in this debate I rushed to look at my file on this subject, and the first thing I came upon was a speech by  Mr Freeth  who is now our Ambassador in Japan.  Mr Freeth  speaking on behalf of  Sir Garfield  Barwick when he made his well known statement. I have a copy of it here. It was certainly made in 1962 although I have not been able to turn up the exact date. 
After that statement was made I, as a chartered accountant in the community in Adelaide, saw the wheels of reaction start to grind. I attended a few luncheons. One in particular which I remember was organised by the Institute of Chartered Accountants. At that luncheon the forces of reaction in this country got up and said such dire things about the effects of legislation such as that which was foreshadowed at the time. They are the people who provide this Government, which has been in office now for 23 years, with the sinews to fight elections. I have no doubt that they are the people who stopped  Sir Garfield  Barwick in his tracks in trying to do what should have been done in the interests of the ordinary people of this country - the setting up of the necessary structures so that the national interest can be determined in a situation such as the one which we are discussing today. 
We could go back further. I have in my hand the report of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review which reported in 1959. That report contains sections dealing with the sorts of changes that ought to be made in our Constitution. Chapter 16 deals with corporations and chapter 17 deals with restrictive trade practices. The failure to implement the recommendations contained in that report is another nail in th: coffin of this Government on this very subject of takeovers. The Joint Committee on Constitutional Review was an all Party committee of this Parliament. It reported on the constitutional changes which should be made. But what has happened? Along with so many other recommendations which have been made to this Government, the recommendations contained in the report of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review have been shelved for all these years. 
Now it is plain when such changes should have been made, if necessary to the Constitution, so that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  could have stood in this House at question time today and told us and the people outside this Parliament what was the national interest. Instead today we heard some wishy-washy statement from the Prime Minister. He referred only to the overseas investment part of the takeover which we are discussing. Perhaps that may be irrelevant; I do not know. None of us can ascertain just what overseas participation there is in Thomas Nationwide Transport. But that is all that the Prime Minister could talk about. He mentioned a few other things which were repeated by the Minister for National Development representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. I believe that even in these circumstances, where, as a result of the will of his own Government, the Prime Minister's hands are tied behind his back because the Constitution has not been properly altered to cover this situation, the Prime Minister should have stood up in this Parliament and told the nation what he thinks about this takeover. 
Having said that, I do not want to canvass the issue. The main purpose, of our raising this matter of public importance today is to show that we should have structures so that national interest can be determined. It is the duty of members of the Opposition to stand up in this place and show the country why we should have these structures and to point out, as indeed the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and the honourable member for Newcastle have pointed out, the opportunities which are available to this Government lo make sure that this Parliament had the necessary structures. I do not want lo canvass the issue which is an important one. There are some grave dangers in this takeover, but we do not have enough information on it. If 1 might give a personal view, it is that one of the great areas in which reform is needed in our society is in this area of transport rationalisation. There is a tremendous economic wastage in the transport field. In order to sec this highlighted one can go to Darwin or to Tasmania and see the costs incurred by members of the public in the transport field. On almost every occasion on which one studies transport in Australia one finds thai there are trucks returning empty one way and over long distances in our vast country; there are ships returning empty one way; there are airline cargo freighters returning empty one way; there are railway carriages returning empty one way. Rationalisation is needed, but we are not sure how it can be done because we have not got the right sort of tribunal or, as is mentioned in the wording of the matter of public importance which has been raised today, we have not got the right sorts of structures in order to examine this question of takeovers. We are not sure what kind of rationalisation is needed in our case. 
I have a question for the Treasurer about tax reform. Is it not a fact that the taxation inquiry he announced on Tuesday night will take many months to be completed, probably well over a year? Does be realise that such an inquiry has been for some time a part of the Labor Party tax reform policy? In view of the fact that the report will be made to the next government - more than likely a Labor government - will he, in order to save a monumental waste of public funds, seek agreement with the Opposition on the terms of reference and the personnel of this inquiry? 
I direct a question to  the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Did he announce before his recent overseas trip that 'his land transport discussions will be particularly concerned with urban rapid transport systems'? What did he learn appropriate to Australian conditions whilst abroad, particularly when he was in Madrid? When did he last travel on a public transport system in one of our Australian capital cities? Is his Government now belatedly going to give some help in this critical area? 
There is a crisis in the coal industry and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  have clearly shown this. In spite of a lot of nonsense spoken by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  who tried to shift the blame to the former Labor government in New South Wales, I am glad that he ended on the note that there is a great need for a national fuels policy in this country, a need which the Australian Labor Party Opposition has been advocating for years. However, my grievance today is not about coal. But purely and simply, it is that the price of a schooner of beer is far too high in this country and that this McMahon Liberal-Country Party Government is directly to blame for this iniquitous state of affairs. I make this claim not so much from the experience of personal consumption - I prefer the product of the grape on suitable occasions, in reasonable quantities, of course - but after a cold, hard, analytical look at the figures as a cheerless accountant and economist. 
Let me give the House a few stark facts about the brewing industry. Firstly, profits of the 8 major brewers in 1971 totalled $33,370,201 after tax- nearly $33im after they had paid their company tax. I know that the total amount of profit is not always in itself meaningful for it depends on how much capital one has to employ in order to arrive at that profit. Let us look now at a second stark fact - the total profit before tax and interest payments as a ratio of total capital employed. For the brewing industry this figure in 1964-65 was 15.2 per cent. It was 15.6 per cent in 1965-66 and rose to 20.8 per cent in 1970-71. This is a usurious rate of return. Shylock had nothing on these giant breweries in our midst which are taking advantage of the ordinary working man's love of a schooner, a middy or even a pint of beer. The rate of return was bad enough in 1964-65 when it was 15.2 per cent, but to add insult to injury there has been a rapidly increasing rate of profitability until now the last known figure is 20.8 per cent. I remind the House that this 20.8 per cent was earned last financial year, the year to 30th June 1971, the year when this McMahon Liberal-Country Party Government commenced its so-called attack on inflation. 
The main form of attack has been to bash the unions. The Government says: 'Let us by a dose of unemployment discourage them from applying through the arbitration court and by other means for their just rewards'. This is the Government's attitude. While it pursues these policies the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  and the 
Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  who is  Deputy  Prime Minister - the Australian Country Party is also guilty - and all the other guilty men in this Government allow their friends who run the breweries and the hotel combines to fleece the public in this way and to add immeasurably to inflation. Why do they allow this? They allow it because the breweries exemplify the sort of places from which the Liberal and Country Parties derive their funds to fight elections. The breweries are big donors to Party funds. I go one step further. In my city, Adelaide, the South Australian Brewing Co. Ltd which distributes beer throughout South Australia, the Northern Territory and Broken Hill under the brand names of 'West End' and 'Southwark' - this company produces all the draught beer and most of the bottled beer sold in South Australia and operates the largest hotel chain in my State so that it is a thriving quasi monopoly if ever there was one - is a thriving hive of Liberal activists with at least one and possibly 2 endorsed Liberal candidates on its staff, a couple more who are budding conservative politicians and also one who is one of the main contacts of the League of Rights in South Australia. Is it any wonder that we do not get any action from this Government to ensure that the beer drinkers of this country cease being fleeced? 
Before I turn to the remedies I will give the House a third lot of facts about this brewing industry to drive home my case. I have had calculated for me an earnings per share index which should be more or less proportional to the return received by investors, though perhaps understating the return as it would discount bonuses and option issues. This earnings per share index, starting at 100 in 1964-65, shows a phenomenal growth in these earnings. In 1965-66 it rose to 108.9 and in 1966-67 to 114.1 until in 1970-71 it was 167.4. In the years from 1964-65 to 1970-71 the earnings grew from 100 to 167.4. To take a more concrete case, the purchase of 100 Carlton and United Breweries Ltd shares at the highest price in 1965 would have cost $318. Dividends received on these shares would have totalled $98.80, including dividends on bonus issues. The bonus and premium issues since 1965 would have netted an extra 40 shares at a cost of $20. Sale of these shares on 11th February 1972 would have returned $610.40. Profits over the 7-year period would have been $371.20 or $53 a year, nearly 17 per cent annual return on the investment. If the shares bad been bought at the lowest price for 1965 the outlay would have been $238, the profit $450 or $64 a year, representing an annual return of nearly 24 per cent. This is the return for investors, and yet it is the unions and wage earners who are being bashed by this Government and told that they are responsible for inflation. 
What would a Labor Government do about this iniquitous state of affairs? First of all, we will create a situation in which, by adequate monopolies and restrictive trade practices legislation, the country will not be held to ransom by a few suppliers, as is the case in Australia today. Let us have a monopolies commission to examine this industry just as the industry has been examined in the United Kingdom. The trouble with us in this country is that we form these committees and derive for ourselves the powers to do something about the ills that inflict our society, whether it is to do with foreign investment, operations on the stock exchanges or take-overs, and learn what we should do about these ills only after the horse has bolted and after the damage has been done. Would anyone deny that what the British Monopolies Commission turned up as the ills of Britain's liquor industry do not apply here? Let me tell the House some of the headings of the Commission's report. Firstly, there is the concentration of the industry in the hands of just a few. There is, of course, ample evidence of that in Australia. Secondly, there is the horizontal integration, as it is called - the degree of control exercised by brewers through their tied houses, on the one hand, and their roles as wine and spirit distributors, on the other. There is evidence that breweries promote their own house brands in their controlled outlets at the expense of . independently distributed wines and spirits. There is evidence that Australian breweries employ even more vigorous methods to discourage competition against their wine and spirit distributing subsidiaries by independent wholesalers. A third finding of the United Kingdom Monopolies Commission related to the lack of competition. As we know, price competition is virtually unknown in 
Australia, especially in the draught beer market. In 3 States the supply of draught beer is a monopoly. In all cases it is claimed by the Australian Hotels Association that recommended prices are set by it and almost universally followed by its members. 
So much for the advantages of having monopolies and restrictive trade practices legislation with teeth in it, brief though the account has been. A second benefit that an Australian Labor Party government will give the people in this field is a prices justification tribunal. With profits of the order I have outlined earlier in this speech, does anyone really think that. the price of a schooner of beer could be justified before our tribunal? 
A third benefit which I think, is overdue is some civil liberties for the home brewer. There are plenty of rumours flying about that the big breweries are stockpiling large quantities of hops in order to undermine the rapidly expanding home brewing, industry. This is only one of the ways in which the home brewer is being frustrated. I do not believe that he has the right to start up an industry in his back yard, but I do believe that he has the right to brew a reasonable quantity for his own family's consumption. The man in the street is paying far too much for his glass of beer. An active Labor Government will see that he is no longer fleeced in this sphere, as he is in so many others. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What amount does the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Ltd pay the Australian National Line for freighting ore from Northern Territory mining operations to southern foundries. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
On how many occasions in 1971 did public servants of (a) the Northern Territory Division of the Department of the Interior, Canberra and (b) other Commonwealth Departments in Canberra and the Northern Territory travel on duty first class by international airline between Darwin and Sydney. 
What were the main reasons for this travel by international airline instead of by internal airline. 
What was the aggregate additional expense incurred in fares because of this travel by international airline. 
Has the Treasurer noted in today's Press that Tooth and Co. Ltd has announced an even larger profit in the year in which it has given a one for one bonus. Does he know that the rate of return on invested funds in the 8 most prominent breweries in Australia in 1970-71 was well over 20 per cent? Does he agree with me that this is an iniquitously exorbitant rate of return, although similar to exorbitant profits being made by companies and received by shareholders In many other fields? When will the Minister and his Government, if they are serious in fighting inflation, seek to restrain the employers of the community instead of merely following their shallow policy of blaming the employees? 
I congratulate the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  on a very thoughtful speech in this foreign affairs debate. I only wish that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  had been here to listen to it, and I hope that it will be drawn to his attention. It was in marked contrast with a couple of other contributions we have heard, those from the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  and the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  I particularly agree with him in what he had to say about Africa. I will concentrate on Australia's role in Asia. During the past couple of years very many and fundamental changes have been taking place in the attitudes of Asian countries in their relations with each other and with powers outside the region. However it seems that these radical changes in thinking have not yet greatly influenced the attitudes of the Australian Government in its foreign and defence services. In fact, what the honourable member for Diamond Valley had to say was in marked contrast with the attitudes of the Government which he supports. We can see this clearly from the ministerial statement of the Minister tor Foreign Affairs which we are debating here today. 
The new thinking in Asian countries amounts to a questioning or in some cases a rejection of the belief that the security of individual nations can be protected and national interests promoted on the basis of alignment with great powers and the cold war style of confrontation and containment of communism. In question are those policies that require considerable defence effort and involvement in military treaties or other defence arrangements, often at the expense of the nation's international reputation for political and military independence. In a sense the 2 major super powers themselves have been responsible for stimulating the new thinking in international relations. The meeting taking place right now between  President  Nixon of the United States and the Soviet's Brezhnev in Moscow is an example of this. Both the Soviet Union and the United States have for some years been searching for ways of reducing the tensions between them, particularly those tensions that have buttressed the super power confrontation and have from time to time erupted into serious disputes that exposed the danger of nuclear war. China has now also moved into a more active diplomatic role that should encourage the normalisation of her relations with other Asian countries on the basis of peaceful coexistence, though she will enter into sharper competiton diplomatically and ideologically with the. Soviet Union and the United States. 
These developments are manifestations, in my view, of a new realism in international relations based on a growing conviction that the present international situation is favourable for the working out of alternative arrangements to hostile confrontations between contending ideologies and different political systems. In effect at last there appear to be grounds for believing that the much discussed concept of peaceful coexistence can be negotiated into a realistic framework. There is a greater awareness of the dangers as well as the enormously wasteful cost of military confrontations and some optimism at the prospects of diplomatic and political means generally, rather than military strategies, for the promotion of the national interests of those countries anxious to assert themselves in international affairs. I trust that the present increase in hostilities in Vietnam is a temporary aberration on the part of America and that there will be a continuation of what earlier seemed to be a decline in the hostilities in that unfortunate country. For some time, a realisation that the approach to national security has been too negative has been growing. The enormous expenditure on defence - (According to the US Arms Control and Disarmament Agency in 1970 it was $US204,000m or the equivalent of one year's income of the entire population of the developing countries - has in most cases complicated national security problems rather than offer solutions to them. Despite great effort and expenditures, few countries would boast that a truly effective security system has yet been attained. At the same time, the belief is that good prospects exist for a new, stable balance in international relations, offering in the form of interlocking relationships, perhaps with super-power guarantees, an alternative to heavy defence expenditure as a measure to a better and more realistic security, and a future basis for disarmament and arms control. 
The implications for Australia of recent developments and the new thinking in internaional relations are of great significance. Clearly the time is propitious for a searching re-examination of our foreign policy assumptions and for a thorough-going review of how our long term foreign policy objectives might best be attained. From this should emerge a clear outline of a new independent Australian foreign policy, one that is not rooted in the assumptions of the past, some of which appear to have been discredited, or too heavily influenced by direct reliance upon the experiences of friendly countries, with whom we have been closely linked culturally and politically. This new foreign policy framework would be based on the reality that Australia's position in the world is a unique one, and her foreign policy should therefore be formulated and expressed accordingly. It may be true that the experiences of our traditional friends in internatonal relations hold important lessons for us, but these lessons should serve rather as instructive experience than as models or inspiration of our policies and aims. 
Before setting out on the taks of formulating new attitudes and objectives it is necessary to take stock of the current perceptions of Australian foreign policy and the reasons why they fall short of effectively promoting our national interests. It is true that the foreign policy of the nation is based upon its national interest, but what really matters is the way in which this national interest is analysed and translated into policies. Although there has been a perceptible change in recent years, since the end of the Second World War the preoccupation of Australian Governments has been the search for security against external attack. The advent of the cold war, and the aggressive style of the leadership of President Sukarno in Indonesia stimulated the fear that Australia might at any time be invaded by an aggressive Asian power from the north. The war in Indo-China and the fostering of such concepts as the so-called domino theory have added fuel to Australian fears. 
The Australian reactions to the turbulent developments in Asia since World War II have reflected a greater preoccupation with the securing of our own defences than with the seeking of a deeper understanding of the changing scene and the developing of better relations with the countries of the region. These were the sorts of things about which the honourable member for Diamond Valley was talking. Australia has been enormously affected by its experiences in the Second World War and the belief that to survive in this region it must have a protector. As a result of these preoccupations the governments have followed a policy that could be described as one of defence before diplomacy. In fact my colleague, the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison),  would have perhaps described it as military interventionism before diplomacy. Not surprisingly the policies that have emerged from this thinking have been mostly of a negative character. Australia under successive LiberalCountry Party Federal Governments has sought protection from the United States and to a progressively lessening extent, from Britain, in the form of treaties and other commitments, seemingly based on the assumption that without this protection we would soon fall victim of some aggressor. Another plank of our foreign policy has been to develop treaty relationships with selected pro-Western countries in Asia, but it is probably fair to say that in reality these treaty relationships have been regarded by the Asians concerned more as efforts towards the defence of Australia, in the sense of a forward posture, than as efforts to help those Asian countries defend themselves. 
These traditional themes of our foreign policy now appear to have been substantially questioned or in some cases discredited. In the case of our treaty relationships, it is not that relations with the United States, for example, have deteriorated but that there is a more rational appreciation of the nature of international relationships and of the strengths and limitations of the expressions of even the closest friendships. In a given international conflict it may be impossible to enforce or invoke a treaty because of the dangers involved and/or because priorities have changed, substantially weakening the spirit of the treaty. There is an impermanence in the strength and force of treaties such as ANZUS whose signatories are unequal in size and are separated from each other by great distances. The spirit of such treaties may decline into ineffectiveness as a result of changes in the interpretation of national interests. What was seen as a binding obligation or insurance policy  10  years ago might now be treated lightly, even cynically, by a party to it. Also, if taken too seriously, a treaty such as ANZUS can create a false sense of security, in that the real basis for the commitment of one country to another - close friendship and the identity of interests - may be ignored or treated too lightly. In effect, the ANZUS Treaty is worth no more than the state of the relationship between Australia, New Zealand and the United States. On the other hand it can be argued that if a close friendship and community interests have been established the need for a formal treaty scarcely exists. 
If a genuinely independent and forward looking Australian foreign policy is to evolve, a comprehensive review of how 
Australia's national interests might best be promoted should be carried out on the basis of these more rational considerations. The document we are debating today is no such review. A number of basic points suggest a framework for a new policy. The first is that we should accept that Australia's position is unique in many ways, necessitating a departure from the Western European traditions which have hitherto so strongly influenced Australian perspectives. Uninhibited by the prejudices of the past, we should adjust ourselves to the new trends in international relations, particularly those developments impinging on the attitudes and interests of the region in which Australia is situated. It will be contended by some that this is already the case and that Australia has moved closer to the major powers of Asia in recent years. But have we moved so very much closer? It could be argued that our policies have in truth been designed to keep Asia away from Australia. The Australian apprehension of a threat from the north - a threat from some Asian country - erupting amid conditions of political and economic instability has impelled the policy makers towards negative conclusions. 
Political developments in Asian countries have been followed closely by the Government, but its paramount concern has been to determine whether Australian security has been endangered, whether communist objectives have been furthered and what defence measures should be taken to deter a possible threat. Seldom has the Government looked beyond these narrow objectives in an effort to discern the other elements in the situation and perhaps to encourage the countries concerned to meet these challenges in a more positive way. 
How do we formulate more positive strategies? Firstly, we need to adjust ourselves to the realities of Australia's position and seek by more positive and active diplomacy to project a more progressive image of Australia to our neighbours. Ours is a prosperous and politically stable nation on the periphery of one of the most populous, economically depressed and politically unstable areas of the world. But the image we have, of a nation aloof and detached, is not one that inspires the respect and confidence of our neighbours. In order to improve this portrayal Australians need to make a sustained effort to move closer to our neighbours and to gain their confidence. This means the undertaking of more purposeful steps to acquire a deeper understanding of the countries of the region and to participate with them in their search for greater co-operation, such as the search for a system of collective security that would obviate the need for heavy defence expenditures. 
As a sincere demonstration of Australia's involvement in the problems of the region, it would be a progressive move for Australia to assume the leading role among developed countries in development assistance. About 15 months ago I had the privilege to attend with an Australian delegation a debate on this very subject in the Council of Europe. The Government should aim at formulating a much expanded aid programme, more than doubling our present level of expenditure. This step conceivably would be a radical and constructive alternative to the existing reliance on defence support. For example, Australian military assistance to South East Asia is more than twice the current level of our development assistance to the region. This development assistance programme would range beyond the present concept of rendering aid, which, as far as Asian countries are concerned, resembles an international charity. 
Although there is much more I would like to say about aid, let me merely say that I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his forthcoming trip to Bangladesh will take a new lead in aid to that country and that this will be the first step in a new era of aid for our Asian neighbours. 
 I rise merely to record my protest at the way in which these complicated amendments have been introduced. This Bill has been lying on our notice paper since 9th December 1971. I hope I am not at fault  -  I believe I am not at fault - but the first we have heard of these substantial amendments to a most complicated Bill has been tonight in this chamber. I have had a number of representations about these alterations. I would have talked earlier on the Bill except that these are the dying hours of the Parliament and others were anxious to speak. But nobody actually spoke on this particular Bill during the cognate debate on 3 Bills. However, extremely complicated amendments have been moved in this way and honourable members have had no opportunity to study them in depth and no opportunity of determining whether, indeed, they will achieve what the Government says it is hoping to achieve according to the speech we just heard from the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland).  I will not detain the Committee any longer, but I record my protest. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report - by leave - adopted. 
It is after midnight and I am not now going to make the speech on this measure that I intended to make. I merely record my support for this important amendment as it gives clearly the attitude of the Australian Labor Party, as the alternative government, on the subject of a 2- airline policy. Members of the Opposition have stated in earlier debates that the 2- airline policy is here to stay. Indeed, all our airports are arranged for it. There is too much investment, too many good people employed and occupied in each of the airlines, and also there are some benefits from competition, even though, as the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  pointed out, in so many cases, with parallel timetables, this picture of competition is a fairly false one. 
We believe that where Government funds are being employed in an area such as this, there ought to be proper accountability for those funds. From the way in which Ansett Transport Industries Limited serves up its financial statements to the public at large - and Parliament does not get a financial statement specifically - there is no way of finding out just what is the profit, or indeed the loss, of the airline part of their enterprise. Much public money is invested in it, whether by means of post office subsidies or even by these guarantees. I will admit that the guarantees are not costing the taxpayer anything because they are to be repaid by the airlines over a period of time, but if anything went wrong with the airline industry, then the guarantor would have to bear the loss. 
To that extent the Government is helping these airlines. 
In these sorts of cases there ought to be proper accountability. I repeat, there is no such accountability at the present stage, and that is the purpose of the amendment. Public interest ought to be paramount at all times, and the Opposition cannot see where at the moment public interest is being taken care of in these circumstances. We know that Ansett Transport Industries Limited is conducting other enterprises - television stations to name just one. If one can get a guide from the operations of the fourth television channel in my own State of South Australia, one knows that profits have not been made for some time by that channel. That applies equally to Channel 0 in Melbourne. How can we come to any other conclusion than that public funds are being used to subsidise enterprises like that? In view of the purpose of the amendment that has been outlined, I am happy, even though the hour is late and even though my remarks have been few, to support it. 
I think the best that can be said of the speech of the honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes)  in this Budget debate is that it is a typical one from the Government side; that is, confront the unions and then put fear into the people of Australia by misleading them about the policies of the Australian Labor Party. 1 noticed that the honourable member for Mcpherson used the expression 'It's time'. As most people know, It's time' is the Labor Party's slogan for the forthcoming Federal election. The only way in which it should be used is in these terms: It's time for a change of government. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  which reads in part:  the House condemns the Budget because it fails to define adequate economic and social goals for Australia; and in particular because it provides no programme for restoring full employment, no means of checking the costs and prices of goods and land, no framework for improving the standards of education, health, welfare and public transport and no national plan for our capital cities and regional centres'. 
Our annual Budget is more than a social document. It must be judged on wider grounds than: Where does it gather money for the Government and how is the money to be spent? It is also an economic docu ment. It is one of the most important measures in the hands of the central Government for regulating the level of economic activity in this country. In short, the burden of my contribution to this Budget debate is that I am not happy with this Budget as a social document in respect of where the money is coming from and where it is going to. But more than that, as an economic document I believe it is a disaster and I shall concentrate on that point. 
Firstly, what does the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  say about the economy? Frankly, very little. In fact the economic information in this Budget document is totally inadequate. There is no economic arithmetic of the sort we should expect in a Budget Speech and in the accompanying documents. And well might this be. The Treasurer knows very well that the few extra goodies that he has in his basket this year have been more than paid for by the unnecessary hardships has has inflicted on the community over the last year and which his predecessor inflicted on the community in the previous year. Last year's headlines on the Budget make interesting reading. There were headlines such as Snedden Budget is Belt Tightener', 'No Party - but only Horrors in the Budget*. The income tax levy went up  2i  per cent to 5 per cent, there was a 3c to 4c rise in the cost of a packet of 20 cigarettes, a 2c a gallon increase in customs and excise duty on petrol, the combined television and radio licence fee was increased by $6.50 to $26.50. the patient's charge for a prescription went up 50c to $1, telephone and postal charges went up and so on. May I remind the House that of all those imposts only one - taxation - has been lifted. 
The Australian people must be reminded that this was the medicine inflicted on them this time last year and the tragedy is that it was the wrong medicine for the economy at that time. The Australian Labor Party roundly condemned that policy at that time and pointed out that the Treasurer and the Government were about 4 months out of date. Stagnation was by then the problem, not inflation. The previous stop in the Liberal-Country Party's stop-go syndrome had caused this. I refer to the Gorton measures of February 1971 which among other things slashed public expenditure. 
The Labor Party was supported in its diagnosis of the economy by most economic commentators at that time outside the Government. For instance, it was supported by the Melbourne University's Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research, by W. D. Scott and Co. Pty Ltd and so on. Read the speech on the Budget delivered by any Labor member at this time last year and it will be seen that we were right. 
It is nol good enough to say, as this Government says: 'Oh, it was not our fault - there were such overseas factors as the currency crisis and wool prices and so on'. It was precisely because of the currency crisis and wool prices that we should . have had an expansionary and not a deflationary Budget. By the time this Government had woken up it was too late. There was a mini Budget introduced in the early part of this year which attempted to redress the balance and to overcome the tragic mistakes of last year's Budget. There were some more emergency measures announced in April. But all of these were too late. Confidence was shattered, unemployment grew steadily until it reached the tragically high level of 2 per cent that we are suffering today - the highest in 10 years and the highest since that depression in 1961-62 which was induced by a previous Liberal-Country Party Government. 
I make no apologies for outlining this recent economic history. It is extraordinary that the guilty men of this Government should think that the people of Australia are so gullible that they will be happy with this Budget when it is merely attempting to redress the horrors which the same guilty men inflicted on our people. But there is an even more important question than that. What effect will it have on the economy from here onwards? The citizens we represent realise that we must all be much more interested in the level of economic activity, including the level of unemployment, than in any temporary dollar or two whichthe Treasurer may have decided not to take from us in taxation. Let me describe the economy because so far I have mentioned only unemployment figures. I read from the publication of W. D. Scott and Co. Pty Ltd entitled 'The Australian Economy'. It describes the Australian economy in the following way: 
The Australian economy in 1972 is moving sluggishly. Overall, demand by both consumers and business even when added to growing government demand is still insufficient in aggregate to fully employ available resources. Demand slackness has reached such proportions as to rank equally with inflation as a national problem. In particular consumer spending on retail store items is declining the building and motor vehicle industries 
In my own electorate of Adelaide we are particularly concerned with the level of activity in the motor vehicle industry -  are facing lulls in demand as both business and consumers are delaying expenditures 
Then there is the view of  Dr Peter  Sheehan of the Australian National University who described the economy in a recent paper on the Budget as an economy which is experiencing stagnation and inflation and is yet awash with funds as a result of an unprecedented rate of increase in foreign exchange reserves. But the most marked feature of the economy of Australia is the bad rate of growth, The lack of real growth per head of population. In the Treasurer's words, that growth was 3 per cent. However, there is a great deal of doubt as to whether the growth was as high as this.  Dr Peter  Sheehan went on in his paper to say in respect of the June quarter national accounts: 
The picture these accounts present is a very sobering one, one which is not conveyed by the Treasurer's simple statement that growth in 1971-72 was only 3 per cent. In fact the growth in real CNP in 1972 was 3.2 per cent, or $890 million in 1966-67 prices. Of this $890 million, the change in the statistical discrepancy provided $252 million and the increase in net exports $571 million, so that what I call domestic demand rose by only $67 million, or 0.2 per cent. 
This should be compared with the Treasurer's figure of 3 per cent. Supporting evidence for the contention that the growth rate of this country is poor and that there is scope for increasing the rate of economic growth in Australia can be obtained from the most recent United Nations Year Book of National Accounts Statistics. This shows the average rates of growth in gross national product for a number of countries from the early 1950s to 1968. Although I have not been able to speak to the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay),  who is at the table. 
I have spoken to the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  and accordingly I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a table headed 'Growth in Real GNP per Head in OECD Countries, 1950-1968'. 

<graphic href="079131197208243_37_1.jpg"></graphic>

It will be seen from this table that Australia's average annual rate of growth in real gross national product per head from 1953 to 1968 was 2.5 per cent which is low by comparison with the rates in most of the developed countries. For example, of the 22 countries in the Organisation for Economic Development for which data are available, only 4 had lower average annual rates of growth in real gross national product per head than Australia. They were Canada, Luxembourg, United Kingdom and the United States of America. Two of these - Canada and the United States - began and ended the period with an average gross national product per head of population well above that of Australia. Of the remaining countries 8 had average growth rates between 3 and 4 per cent a year and 7 had rates exceeding 4 per cent. This is the situation in which we find ourselves. This is the most important feature of our economy today. It seems to me that it is only the Treasurer and his followers who think that this Budget applies itself satisfactorily to that most important feature. In short the Treasurer says that the economy needs stimulus. At least he agrees with that even though he does not mention that it is his own actions which have caused the situation. Then he says that we must be careful not to go too far in giving this stimulus. Finally, without any justification whatsoever, he says that a $60m domestic Budget deficit will do the trick. 
I repeat: He and his followers in this House seem to he the only ones who think so. Professor Warren Hogan, Professor of Economics at Sydney University, does not think so, judging by the report of his remarks on the Budget at the recent conference of the Australia and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science held in Sydney.  Dr Peter  Sheehan of the Australian National University, whom I referred to earlier does not think so. I would like to quote once again from his address. He said: 
In my view, the 1972-73 Budget will be a failure in respect of what I take to be its main aim, to stimulate growth so as to reduce the level of unemployment without leading to an increase in the rate of inflation. Further substantial stimulation, and other measures, will be required to achieve this. 
He goes on: 
I am amazed, then, to find so many people prepared to argue that we can measure part of the initial stimulus of the Budget by the calculated $436m cut in income taxes, these being funds injected into the income expenditure stream' to use a common phrase. ... I am unable to see how a purely nominal tax cut can 'provide a significant stimulus to demand' except through psychological effects or 'add substantially to disposable incomes'. 
These are the opinions of experts. Finally I quote from this morning's 'Australian'. Under the headline 'Economy in Need of Further Stimulus' the article reads: 
The Australian economy needs some further source of stimulus if it is to maintain an acceptable employment situation and a confident level of business activity. 
That is not the view of an academic economist; it is the view of  Dr Harold  Bell, economic adviser to the Australian Mutual Provident Society. He said that yesterday at a luncheon for the New South Wales division of the Australian Society of Accountants. 
I make no apologies for dwelling so long on the economic aspects of this Budget. In my view, it is these aspects which are absolutely vital. Furthermore, I do not hold the cynical view of the Australian people apparently held by the Government and its supporters. I believe that the Australian people will judge this Budget as a totally inadequate economic measure as the level of activity continues to be slack and unemployment grows over succeeding months. An alternative to this ad hocism is offered by a Federal Labor government. Planning is the key. Emphasis on this No. 1 plank of the Australian Labor Party's economic platform has been a feature of what I have said during Budget debates in the short time I have been in this Parliament. I want to say a little more about it in the short time I have left today. 
Ait the present time we have government by confrontation. We saw it demonstrated in the speech of the honourable member for Mcpherson. We have a LiberalCountry Party Government which seeks to divide, seeks to blame the unions for inflation, fails to do anything worthwhile about inflation and fails to bring people together in a spirit of co-operation. Labor's attitude is in marked contrast to this. We are proud to be socialists, seeking by planning to institute policies of co-operation for the benefit of all people but particularly of those people who need help in our society. Co-operation not confrontation' is one of our slogans. Economic policy within Australia at the present time is formulated on the basis of the advice and determinations of a number of distinct authorities that at times may advocate conflicting policies. The key bodies include the Treasury, the Department of Trade and Industry, the Department of Primary Industry, the Tariff Board, the Reserve Bank of Australia, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and, more recently, the Bureau of Roads and the Commissioner of Trade Practices. As well, the Government regularly seeks advice from representatives of industry, commerce and the trade unions, but what happens to that advice is not so clear. 
This complex of policy making bodies in Australia has been described as a 'hydrahead'. The fact that the Commonwealth Cabinet receives advice - often conflicting - on economic policy from numerous bodies and interest groups is by no means unique to Australia. The notable fact is the absence in Australia of an advisory body or government department responsible for comprehensive medium and long term assessments of national economic policies and prospects. In this regard Australia, as I have said, is unique among Western economies. The most extraordinary phenomenon we are witnessing at the present (time is that business, the unions and the financial Press want the sort of approach I have just mentioned - an outside planning body. The only one resisting this at present is the Government. I draw the attention of the House and of the people to a paper delivered by the Treasurer to the forum of the Committee for Economic Development of Australia in Melbourne on 28th June last in which the Treasurer rejected the planning concept which I and my Labor colleagues advocate. 
This Budget must be judged as an economic document as well as a social document. Even as a social document it is a rich man's Budget. To illustrate this, I ask leave of the House - I have already obtained the permission of the Leader of the House - to incorporate in Hansard a document in a paper delivered by Professor Hogan, Professor of Economics at the University of Sydney on the 1972-73 Budget. This sets out the impact of tax adjustments. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="079131197208243_39_2.jpg"></graphic>

This table shows that the percentage rise in after tax income is markedly in favour of the higher income groups. That is why we have called the Budget a rich man's Budget. As an economic document it . is even more so a failure - unable to help those whom I represent in the city and suburban seat of Adelaide to improve their standard of living and to get some of them who are out of work at the present time back to work. A Federal Labor government offers an alternative. I gave the House a very quick outline of that alternative when I referred to planning. The alternative is co-operation through planning. We look forward to the people of Australia giving us the opportunity shortly to apply our ideas. 
I ask the Prime Minister in the absence of the Minister for Labour and National Service: Is it a fact that preliminary negotiations with the States have disclosed that this Government, in its cost of fares reimbursement scheme announced in the Budget, is merely contemplating reimbursing the unfortunate 100,000 people whom the Government has caused to be unemployed for the cost of going from the employment office to the potential place of work, ignoring altogether the cost of getting to the employment office or getting home from the possible place of work? Is it also a fact that this reimbursement is to apply only to those who are in receipt of unemployment benefit, thus ignoring altogether those who are suffering their first 2 to 3 weeks of unemployment? How does the Government justify this scandalous attitude? 
I wish  to  make a personal explanation. 
I make the charge in the House tonight that the Liberal-Country Party Government has been protecting the large overseas controlled oil companies of the international oil cartel and has been acting in collusion with those companies in attempting to squeeze out of existence the only 2 wholly Australian-owned companies - 2 very small marketers called IOC Australia Pty Ltd and XL Petroleum Pty Ltd. The overall result of this Government's action - or in some cases inaction - has been, I believe, that the price of petrol in our community has been 2c to 3c a gallon more than it need otherwise have been. In case anyone is wondering at this early stage why the Liberal-Country Parties should have allowed this to happen, may I say quite bluntly that I believe that it is because the 2 Government Parties receive donations amounting to thousands of dollars for election purposes from the companies of the international oil cartel. 
Now to the facts. Firstly, let me name the 'cartel' companies to which I am referring. Mobil - owned 100 per cent by the Mobil Oil Corporation of America; Esso - owned 100 per cent by the Esso Standard Eastern Inc. of America; BP - owned 100 per cent by BP of the United Kingdom; Caltex - owned 100 per cent by California Texas Oil Corporation of the United States of America; Neptune and Shell - both owned 100 per cent by the Royal Dutch/ Shell Group of Holland and the United Kingdom; Amoco - owned 100 per cent by the Standard Oil Co. of Indiana, United States of America; Total - owned 100 per cent by the Compagnie Francaise de Petroles, France; regrettably, I must include Ampol - owned about 20 per cent overseas and certainly in the pockets of the multi-national giants because it relies on its crude oil from their sources; and H. C. Sleigh, owned nearly 30 per cent by the California Texas Oil Group of America and in this case entirely in the hands of Caltex for its refining. 
Pressures are applied by these giants of the international oil cartel, with the connivance of the Liberal-Country Party Government on these small independent companies in a number of ways. Let me enumerate them. Firstly, they will not refine the Australian crude oil which the small independents are bound to take at a reasonable price under the Federal Government's crude oil policy. The House will remember that all petrol marketers in Australia are bound to take a percentage of locally mined crude oil in direct proportion to the ammount of oil products they sell in the market - otherwise the marketer is obliged to pay a prohibitive penalty. As all the major oil companies I have mentioned, except H. C. Sleigh/Golden Fleece, have their own refineries and as Sleighs are in Caltex's pocket and Caltex has its own refinery, the Federal Government penalty under this indigenous crude oil policy hurts only the little blokes - IOC and XL. However, this would not be too bad if one of the major companies would refine the crude of IOC and XL at a reasonable price. But not one of them will. Nor has the Federal Government done anything effective about this iniquitous situation. 
True it is that the Government appointed  Sir Leslie  Melville as an independent arbiter to report on the cartel's terms and conditions for the refining of indigenous crude oil on behalf of the independent markets.  Sir Leslie  reported in October 1971. But for all intents and purposes the arbiter's report - in other words, the umpire's decision - was ignored; it was circumvented by, in plain language, what I would call a rotten trick.  Sir Leslie's  recommended prices for refined petrol exrefinery were 15.25c a gallon for super and 12.25c a gallon for standard petrol. In fact IOC is obliged by Mobil, its refiners, to pay 17.3c to 17.5c a gallon for super and 14.3c a gallon for standard - 15 per cent higher than  Sir Leslie's  recommendation. These higher costs have been forced by Mobil by insisting that IOC, in contravention of an earlier agreement signed prior to  Sir Leslie's  report, collect its petrol from terminals well away from the refinery. So  Sir Leslie's  'ex refinery' price is meaningless. The cost of getting the petrol from the refinery to the terminals is loaded. Furthermore, the petrol is made available to IOC only at night when, of course, IOC is obliged to pay penalty rates to its employees. 1 could say more about the costs for refined petrol that are loaded by the cartel on to the small independent companies. For instance, Mobil has raised the price of the refinery processing fee from SI. 52 a barrel to $1.58 a barrel and the freight rate in respect of Bass Strait crude from 11c a barrel to 16c a barrel and Barrow Island crude from 46c a barrel to 50c a barrel. In addition to that I could say how, because Mobil will not allow IOC to take refined petrol from the Mobil refinery in South Australia, the South Australian outlets have to be served from Victoria with the added cost of the petrol- going in tankers from South Australia to Victoria. 
In my view, any self-respecting government which had the endeavours of the small man at heart and which respected a small wholly Australian-owned company in its fight against the cartel would have allowed IOC and XL to export their quota of indigenous crude rather than be exploited by the Mobils and the Essos in this way. But not the Commonwealth Government. The Commonwealth Government - in particular, the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  whom I did inform that I would be raising this matter tonight - has gone from bad to worse. 
The little blokes, IOC and XL, found a source of petrol away from the supply sources of the multi-nationals, namely, in Asia. To be exact, they found petrol in Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Thailand and Singapore which could be landed here f.o.b. at the price of 9.5c to 10.3c a gallon. What did this Government do? It hit these little people, who, incidentally, have about one half of 1 per cent or 0.5 per cent of the market - with a 'tentative normal value' f.o.b. of 13.34c for super and 11.19c for standard petrol. Immediately, the Asians jacket up their prices more or less to this figure. Why should they charge less when the Australian Government was merely taking a margin as dumping duties. Three cents or so a gallon which might have gone into the pockets of the Australian consumer was forced by the Government's action into the pockets of the Asian producers. When I raised this matter with the Minister a few months ago he referred it to the Tariff Board. The latest information I have been able to ascertain is that the Tariff Board has not started on its inquiry - so the Australian citizen goes on paying more for his petrol for months and months. 
There are other examples of Government collusion. The cartels persuaded this 
Government, through the Customs Ministry, to demand cash or - the same thing - bankers cheques for amounts owing on the spot to the Government. As I understand it, everyone else is allowed 30 days terms. This was forced originally at a time when there was a bank strike. It was hoped by Mobil and others, I believe, to use the Government to force IOC into liquidation. This did not happen, but one result was that IOC lost to Mobil a few of its best independent outlets by misrepresentation. I wish I had time to give the facts. The point is that the Government was a party to this maneouvre 
I believe that IOC and XL are playing a vital role in our economy by deterring rises in petrol prices. Certainly, because of their size, they can market more cheaply than their competitors. This is what we want. If it was not for them, there would be no 4c to 8c discount war in Victoria. This is entirely motivated by the desire to run IOC and XL out of business. So far this campaign has not succeeded, but it is no thanks to this Government or to the present Minister for Customs and Excise. 
Let no one weep crocodile tears for the multi-national companies; they are sitting pretty. A look at their taxation provisions shows that they are not disclosing half the profits they make. At least, by using section 136 of the Income Tax Act, the Taxation Commissioner is taxing them on more than they disclose. He realises they are fiddling the price of their crude. It is the citizens of Australia who should weep because we are beset by this monopoly which has littered our country with too many inefficient service stations. Let us hope we shall soon have a Federal Labor government which will apply some planning to this situation and which will champion the little man, the IOCs and XLs of this world, the little man who provides some competition and some lower prices for our people. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. I realise that I am prevented from replying to what the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  said because he moved the motion for the adjournment of the House. I consider that he made a scurrilous attack in an irrelevant speech. I think that I can say in a personal explanation that last night I made 3 charges in relation to this matter and none of the 3 charges was referred to by the Minister. The first was that- 
The whole speech was a misrepresentation because it did not answer the 3 main points that I brought forward in my speech last night on the motion for the adjournment. The only way that I could answer it in full would be by repeating those 3 points in order to remind the Minister and to show how irrelevant he was in his speech. I realise that that course is not open to me under the Standing Orders but I will take another opportunity to do so. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I believe that the speech just made by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  has to be shown up  for  its illogicality. The best I can say for him is that he did not have his heart in it and that he had a difficult brief. I will not detain the House for long, but I want to point out that this came through rather clearly. He mentioned that the House was being stampeded into this. I want to point out that far from that being the case, people in the States of South Australia and Western Australia - the Minister mentioned them - studied the legislation that went through their own Parliaments and there is overwhelming support for simitar legislation at the Commonwealth level. I do not know whom the Minister has been talking to, but let me assure him that in my urban seat I meet as many people as anybody in this House during the course of my work in the electorate. To give one example, last Saturday morning I was out at a shopping centre which is my usual forum on Saturday mornings and a number of people came up to me to speak about this very issue. They said: 'Is it really a fact that this Government will allow us to go away and fight for our country at the age of 20 yet we cannot have a vote?' The Government does that with the 20 year olds. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  is interjecting, but I cannot hear what he is saying. It would be interesting to know where he stands on this issue. I hope that he will get up and tell us. 
Yes, but what about when they come home? What about the ex-national servicemen or those who joined the Army at 18 years of age? I know that these people get a vote when they are in a war zone, but there are a  lot  of other people who do not. The Minister spoke about the difficulties of bringing this in. Far more difficulties face the Commonwealth Electoral Office right now because in South Australia and Western Australia its officers have to make the distinction between people who can vote in State elections and those who can vote in a Federal election. They face far more difficulties than they would if the Minister did the proper thing and acceded to the overwhelming feeling in the country and allowed 18 year olds to vote. 
The other great argument he put forward was also put rather insincerely, I feel, because, I repeat, he did not seem to have his heart in the brief he was giving to the House. His argument was: Fancy making voting compulsory. He said that we over estimate what we are doing in this House. If he believes that what we do in this House is not important, let me tell him that all of us on this side do not agree. We are disgusted that the reformation of the House that is needed has not been carried out. The House should be reformed in so many ways, and this is not being done though it accords with the wishes of the people. We do not believe that by downgrading what we are doing here is to follow the proper course or, indeed, follow the wishes of the people. The Minister may believe that such a vote should not be compulsory, but why does he not allow it to be at least voluntary? 
Exactly. The Leader of the Opposition has pointed out so correctly that the Government could agree to the Standing Orders being suspended to enable the debate to continue - I notice that the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  has the call - and a quick vote could be taken on the Bill. In the meantime the Minister could bring forward an amendment which would enable his wish that the vote be voluntary to be implemented. The Minister said that this matter has not been thought through. I believe that- 
I apologise to the House for speaking twice running on 2 separate matters. But I am filling in for an honourable member supporting the Government who is not yet in the House as it is the Government's turn to put forward a  speaker.  This morning we are continuing a debate Which was adjourned last Thursday week on 2 Income Tax Bills. The first Bill is the Income Tax Bill 1972 and the second Bill is the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 4) 1972. The first of these Bills introduces the new personal tax scales. Opposition members rejoice with those who are benefitting under these Bills. However, let me remind the House that if we were in power, we would find much that we would do to improve the Bills. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  in introducing the Bills, was preaching to the converted when he said that the inter-action of money incomes rising with inflation and the progressive rates scale have led to income taxation becoming too heavy a burden on some sections of the community. This was the reason why the Treasurer proposed to alter the taxation scales. 
To put this point into perspective, I draw attention to table 1 - the Summary of Commonwealth Expenditure and Receipts - particularly to those figures relating to the estimate for 1972-73 which appears on page 64 of the document which contains the Treasurer's Budget Speech. I point out to the House that the income tax which it is estimated will be collected from individuals in Australia in 1972-73 under the pay-as-you-earn system will amount to $3, 278m and that this amount is an increase of $389,453,000 over that which was collected from individuals under this system in the previous year. In other words, although these adjustments have been made, $389,453,000 more will be collected from individuals during this financial year than was collected in 1971-72. Under the heading 'Individuals' it is estimated that the income tax to be collected in the financial year 1972-73 from 'other' sources will be $929,800,000. In the previous year the amount collected was $880,037,000. Therefore, it is expected that this figure will increase in this financial year by $49,763,000. The point that I want to make is that the Government is not being as generous as it would like to seem to be and that nearly $500m in extra tax is to be collected from individuals during the current financial year. 
In order to put the change in the tax rates into perspective, another aspect which should be drawn to the attention of the House - I have already done so during my speech on the Budget - relates to the impact of the tax changes on the various income groups. I have a table drawn up by Professor Hogan, Professor of Economics at Sydney University, which I incorporated in Hansard during my speech on the Budget and on this occasion I will merely draw attention to the table and point out that the impact of the tax adjustments is more beneficial to the higher income groups than it is to the lower income groups. I shall refer to just one column of the table. For a man with a wife and 3 children and a taxable income of over $15,000, the percentage rise in after tax income is 5.3 per cent. This percentage rise reduces to 4.77 per cent if he has a taxable income of $12,000 or more. However, for the great majority of taxpayers, who are in the lower range of taxable incomes, the rise is not as great. The percentage rise in after tax income for a man on 82,800 per annum is only 2.24 per cent. 
It is interesting to note that even Adam Smith, when he wrote on taxation matters, pointed out that the ability to pay should be one of the cardinal principles on which taxation is based. This is certainly not being applied in the alterations which we are debating today. I wish to quote from a work by T. S. Adams entitled 'Ideals and Idealism in Taxation'.  Mr Adams  stated: 
The reformers who preached progressive taxation, when the weight of authoritative economic opinion was against them, have exercised  a  powerful practical influence upon the tax systems of the world and I have no doubt that they won in part because they were right, because their proposals were sound. But the true explanation of victory is found in the fact that they were playing the game of democracy. 
I believe that that is an important quotation and we ought to bear it in mind whenever we deal with taxation matters. I doubt whether it can be said that democracy is being applied in the changes that are now before us. 
The next aspect of the Income Tax Bill 1972 is the lifting of the minimum taxable income from $417 to $1,041. Certainly we do not quibble with this change other than to say that it does not go far enough. 1 do not want to go over the ground that was covered by my colleague, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  in the speech he made on this Bill last Thursday week. On that occasion the honourable member pointed out so rightly - I think I am quoting him correctly from memory - that a man on $55 a week with a wife and a child and sometimes 2 child' ren or more- 
The honourable member interjects and corrects me. He said &lt;that he was referring to a wife and 2 children. The income of a man on $55 a week with a wife and 2 children should not be taxable. How many people in our country would disagree with that? The Australian Labor Party looks forward to the day when very shortly we will be able to apply our own principles to taxation tables. I am sure that one of our starting points will be that statement of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports who is the Labor Party's shadow Treasurer. 
The second Bil] to which we are applying our minds today is, as I have said, the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 4) 1972. This Bill has 2 main impacts on taxation. The first is to increase dependants' allowances. The dependant's allowance, for instance, for a wife of $312 has been increased by $52 to $364. Similarly the dependant's allowance of $208, the most common being for the eldest child, has been increased by $52 to $260. The dependant's allowance for the second child and additional children equally has been increased by $52 from $156 to $208. Once again this is a move in the right direction. I must confess that I have not taken out a table showing the impact that these changes will have and how they relate to the value of the deductions at the time when the maximum deduction was increased to $312. But I venture to guess that even after these changes are made the family man with dependants will still not receive the same benefit from his dependants' allowances as he did in earlier days. In fact, I am one who commends people such as the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  for drawing attention to the fact that the committee of inquiry, for instance, that has now been appointed to look into the whole taxation structure should have a close look at the greater equity that could and probably will toe brought about by converting dependant's allowances into a rebate or child endowment system. It is ridiculous that a man with a taxable income of $15,000, whose marginal rate of tax is so much greater than that of a man with a taxable income of $3,000 or $4,000, receives a greater benefit from the $312 concessional deduction for his wife than the person on the lower tax rate receives. 
The other impact of the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 4) concerns selfeducation expenses. I do not want to go over the ground covered by my colleagues the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  but I want to draw attention to the difference between 'education expenses' as they apply to the deduction allowed for educating oneself and as they apply elsewhere in the Act. The definition in this Bill is much narrower. Perhaps the Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Garland)  who is at the table and who is no doubt in charge of this Bill will say more about this. If I have read it correctly, the definition in the Bill we are now debating relates to those expenses necessarily incurred by the taxpayer for fees, books and equipment as they relate to a prescribed course of education. The other definition in the Act relates to those expenses necessarily incurred by the taxpayer for or in connection with full time education at a school, college or university or from a tutor. I think that a little more should have been written into the Treasurer's second reading speech. I would now like to hear a little more from the Minister assisting the Treasurer as to the impact of this difference in definition. The difference was alluded to in the second reading speech without any detail given. 
The Minister was a tax consultant, as I was before I came into this place. He knows that fares to and from school are allowed as an education expense under the other definition of 'education expenses' in the Act. Am I right in thinking that fares to and from the place of education will not be allowed in relation to self-education expenses as the definition provides in this 
Bill? A reference to 'tutor* is included in the main Act but is excluded from this Bill. I seek guidance on other changes. What other differences are there? I would be glad if the Minister would tell the House about this and about any difficulties he foresees in relation to this matter. However, it is not only these matters of commission but also matters of omission to which I would like to allude today. So much has been excluded from this Bill. This is one of the few occasions in the parliamentary year when we can talk about tax matters. This was a time to bring in tax reforms of note. The Government has let this occasion go by. 
Let me remind the House that the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  who was an investigating officer with the Taxation Office, has pointed out many times the anomalies in the Act. He has also told me - I believe he has said this publicly - about the amount per investigator that is brought in and about the shortage of investigators in the Taxation Office generally. We know that our own taxation legislation is a patchwork of problems, and we know that for years people we would not perhaps expect to be reformers have spoken strongly in favour of a new start being made on our taxation legislation. May I quote one of these.  Mr R.  F. Hughes, at the conclusion of his most interesting paper on taxation reform delivered at the first national convention of the Taxation Institute of Australia in Canberra on 26th May 1969, over 3 years ago, had this to say: 
The final conclusion that I have drawn in preparing this Paper, is that the time is long since past when we can go on patching up our tax legislation. We do not have a proper tax system; it is a hotch-potch of law fundamentally written for another generation, which has been for too long worked over, together with sundry imposts now used for general revenue purposes, but introduced originally for a specific reason long since forgotten, the whole overlaid or shot through with provisions not related to the raising of revenue. The most essential reform that is needed is the constructing of a proper system. 
Our general system of taxation, and the equity, coherence, drafting and administration of the taxing acts would benefit greatly from having available to Government the services of an independent Tax Foundation, and as well, a select committee of persons skilled in taxation, of high professional standing and integrity. 
At last we have a committee of inquiry to fulfil the last of those hopes raised by  Mr Hughes. 
I must draw attention to the fact that the Labor Party policy has 3 arms to it. It envisages not only a committee of inquiry but also this taxation foundation to which  Mr Hughes  alluded. There is a tremendous amount of talent in the legal profession, the accounting profession, the universities and the community generally which should be brought to bear on the continuing problem of taxation. At the moment most of the research is going on within the Taxation Office, and of necessity it has to be private to the Taxation Office. I am sure that it would be of tremendous value to the Taxation Office to have the stimulus of outside research. I believe that we ought to have an Australian taxation foundation continually reporting on these matters, as the Canadians have. The third arm, of course, is the talent that is within the Taxation Office itself. I believe that that talent is just waiting to be unharnessed by a change in government. As so often happens, we come back to this matter of having had to suffer for 23 years the one Government in the Federal sphere. I believe there is talent in the Public Service to close a lot of these loopholes. We cannot wait for the report of this committee of inquiry. It will set the course for 10 years. I believe it will take a couple of years to report, but there is so much more that ought to be going on to improve the taxation legislation. 
I believe an opportunity has been let slip once again to bring in, in the Bills we are debating today, some of those reforms. I can let the House know about only a few of them such as income splitting and the farm development deductions which are allowed to Pitt Street farmers against their professional income. A capital gains tax is badly required. There are many other matters, but unfortunately 1 have not time to deal with them now. I welcome the appointment of a committee of inquiry. I regret that the Government has not seen fit, as I indicated in a question in this House, to confer with the Labor Party in choosing those who will sit on that committee. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from  1  to 2.15 p.m. 
A fortnight ago tonight I made a speech on the motion for the adjournment of the House, attacking the Government for allowing the international oil cartel companies every facility to squeeze almost out of existence 2 very small oil companies, IOC Australia Pty Ltd and XL Petroleum Pty Ltd. I said then and repeat tonight that in my view those little companies which have about 0.5 per cent of the trade in petrol and oil are doing a very good job in this country. They are providing some real competition against the larger cartels and they are providing lower prices. I outlined in my speech 3 of the ways in which I considered the Government was assisting these internationally based companies to do it. I mentioned first of all the matter of the refining of the indigenous crude oil which those small companies under the indigenous crude oil policy were bound to take. I showed how, because those 2 small companies did not have their own refining facilities, they were under this Australian indigenous crude oil policy bound to use one of the larger cartel companies to get their refining done. I appreciated that the Government, because it could see a conflict here in that the larger companies were not allowing the small companies a reasonable price for the refining of their indigenous crude, appointed  Sir Leslie  Melville as an arbiter. I went on to point out how, indeed, the decision of the arbiter,  Sir Leslie  Melville, was not being adhered to and that the price of the crude oil from the refineries was being loaded. 
I pointed out. secondly, how these small companies had found a source of petrol outside Australia - indeed, in Asia - how once again Government policy was responsible for a tentative normal value of 3c or so a gallon above that at which the 2 small companies might otherwise have been able to buy their petrol and how I considered that this was being rather restrictive and I said that I was very disappointed that the matter was not coming before the Tariff Board earlier. I blamed the Government and, I suppose, indirectly, the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  for not seeing that this matter was cleared up earlier. 
The third matter I referred to was the demand for cash for duties, or, more accurately, bankers' cheques for duties from at least one of those 2 small companies. I cannot speak for the other one. In the course of my remarks I mentioned that I did not have time to develop this aspect, but I say it now because it is important, when I come to the second reason why I am on my feet tonight, not only to repeat those facts I mentioned a fortnight ago but also to refer to the speech of the Minister on the following night. It was a most extraordinary speech, if I might say so. I do not know whether he had an attack on his liver- 
I am very glad to have an opportunity to say a few words on these 2 Bills. I refer firstly to the Aged Persons Homes Bill 1972 which will amend the Aged Persons Homes Act. This Bill provides for an increase in the subsidy from $5 to $10 a week for each of those persons over 80 - the frail aged - residing in aged persons homes, as long as the accommodation reaches the agreed standard. We have no quibble about that provision, although, in the short time that we have had to read the second reading speeches of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  I was interested to note that when examining just what funds would be available to approved organisations the Minister spread this $10 a week over everybody in the organisation and came up with an average figure of $4.50. In other words, the Minister, too, realises that there is a great need for extra income for many of these people, whether they are over 80 years or not. However, a little is better than nothing and we are very glad to know that some organisations which have residents who are over 80 years of age will receive this extra help. 
I could perhaps remind the House at this stage that the attitude of the Opposition in debating these Bills today, as the Minister has realised, is that it does not want to hold up the payment of these benefits. The benefits are to be paid from the date of the royal assent. At one stage, we were prepared to have only our spokesman on this matter speak in the debate. Since then we have learned that many members of the Government parties want to speak to the Bill, and this affords an opportunity to the rest of us also, at short notice, to talk about the Bill, to congratulate the Minister for Social Services on those areas where, as I have said, a little is better than nothing and also to mention errors of omission. 
The second Bill, the Aged Persons Hostels Bill 1972, is a little more difficult to understand. From the quick look I have had at the Minister's second reading speech, I believe that he has overlooked altogether setting out again just which organisations will benefit by this and the formula under which they will benefit. Perhaps he felt that there was no need to do this because it was set out in the Budget. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said in the Budget Speech: 
To encourage the provision of hostel accommodation for the aged we will, as a special arrangement limited to  3  years- 
I repeat that I have read the Minister's speech only hastily but I did not see anything in it about the limitation to 3 years - 
. grant organisations that are eligible under the Aged Persons Homes Act special assistance. The Commonwealth will meet the cost of 2 hostel beds for every one unsubsidised bed operated by the organisation or one bed for 2 where the accommodation was previously subsidised on a $ for $ basis. 
I was very interested in the whole of the Minister's second reading speech on this Bill but, in the short time I have had to look at the speech, I could not find where that was brought in, and that is the kernel of what this Bill is all about. 
As I understand it, having taken that formula, those organisations which are approved organisations will receive $7,800 per person to provide the hostel bed, buy the land and build the building, and will receive $250 extra for the furnishing of the room related to that particular bed. I would like to have learned from the second reading speech just how far the $7,800 will go. Unfortunately, in searching my files, I have found that the relevant documents are in Adelaide. Only recently I wrote to a number of the leading organisations in this field in South Australia to find out what their bed costs are at this time, in relation to the amount of donation which the average person is expected to find to make up the difference under the existing Aged Persons Homes Act. The Minister will realise that, when he comes to apply a means test in relation to the pensions payable, he is allowing a limit only for each one of these donors who goes into these homes. I think that the limit is about $2,500. I think that in South Australia our land and building costs are the lowest. In previous speeches in this Parliament the Minister has mentioned that we have the. lowest costs in Australia in relation to this matter. That is one of the reasons we have the provision of more beds under this Act. In South Australia alone the average donation that is required these days under the Aged Persons Homes Act is nearer $4,000 than $2,500. This leads me to believe that many of these organisations will have to find a margin over $7,800 plus the $250 for furnishings. 
If the Minister has any more recent information about this I would be very grateful if he would enlighten the House, because I consider that it would be misleading the public to give the impression that donations will not be required. I know that donations cannot be asked for from those who will benefit under this Bill because the whole purpose of these extra hostel beds is to provide beds for people, who have not the wherewithal to provide the donation. But donations from the public to the organisation may have to be sought in order to make up the balance over $7,800 per bed plus the $250 for furnishings. 
The next aspect of the Minister's speech on which I invite comment from him relates to those who will benefit under the Aged Persons Hostels Bill. I realise that they will mainly be those who are in greatest need and who have not been able to provide donations for the type of accommodation which has mainly been available under this Act hitherto. I commend the Minister for that. But he made a lot of play in his second reading speech about how this would relieve the nursing homes; how a tremendous number of people in nursing homes, who are costing the community a lot of money, may be transferred; and how we hope that they will benefit under this legislation and therefore relieve the nursing homes. On the other hand, elsewhere in his speech he talked about the 834,000 people in our community who are pensioners. He divided them into 519,000 who are in their own homes, 25,000 who are in state nursing homes or unsubsidised hostels and 40,000 who are in unsubsidised nursing homes. He did not actually mention the balancing figure, but his figures seem to me to leave some 200,000 pensioners who either live with their families or live in adequate rental accommodation. That leaves 50,000, to use the Minister's own figures, who are living in unsatisfactory conditions. It seems to me that it will be those 50,000 who are at present in unsatisfactory conditions because they cannot afford the donations required to take advantage of the Aged Persons Homes Act, who will use this hostel accommodation and that the Minister will not be relieving the pressures on the nursing homes as he hoped, as I understood his second reading speech. 
I now want to echo or reinforce what has been said already by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  in relation to the whole field of housing for aged persons. I think it should be mentioned here that one of the tremendous problems in providing accommodation under these existing Acts relates to another part of Government policy. I am now referring to land prices and building costs in Australia. As the Minister knows, before coming into this House I was on the board of the largest organisation in South Australia providing this accommodation. I left because I felt, from experience after coming to this House, that I was not able to attend board meetings, that the responsibilities were great and that it was of no use continuing on the board if 1 could not play my part at the board meetings. 
We will see whether the honourable member for Diamond Val ley or I go back to our previous callings first. I will make no boasts about it but let me say that I am quietly confident. Anyway I would hope that they would have me back. At that time I was on the board of the Elderly Citizens Homes of South Australia Incorporated, providing over 1,200 beds under the Aged Persons Homes Act. It is the cost of land and building prices generally that is making it extremely difficult to provide accommodation of the right sort at about the $4,000 mark donation if the proper reserves were being put aside to look after nursing home accommodation and the other needs. Once one took responsibility for people coming within the organisation one not only had to see that they had their individual living unit but also that this hostel type accommodation was provided for them when they could no longer look, after themselves entirely or, when they could no longer live in hostel type accommodation, that there were nursing homes available' providing, on the one hand, ordinary nursing home care and then, later, intensive care. 1 want to make the point quite clear' here ' that we would be helping enormously the whole field of housing for the aged if we tackled this other, problem of land prices and building costs. This should be mentioned in this context because in my view the present Government does not have a policy in this area. Wc need the sort of policies that my party is outlining in this very field. If we could bring down land costs we could provide far better housing _ accommodation for these older people. 
The other matter I want to mention under the- heading of errors of omission - because now is the time to clear this up - is one that the Minister knows about because, he and I have had a number of dealings with him in regard to it. I refer to my belief that this Act should provide the funds to enable the modernisation of older accommodation. The Minister was good enough to come with me on a hot Sunday last summer to the Cottage Homes Incorporated group of flats in the suburb of Prospect, which is in my electorate of Adelaide. There we found the original organisation ' in South Australia providing the sort of care that the Minister and I seek for older people. The organisation has some magnificent sites and some buildings which were adequate in days gone by but which are now inadequate. For a sum which is far less than the sum required to put up a new unit, existing units could be modernised with great saving of resources to the community. At the same time, this would save a lot of old people the problems associated with moving away from the area in which they have lived and have been very happy for many years. 
Instead, under this existing legislation, this organisation and others like it throughout the country are forced to sell up their existing sites. It is not economical for some of them to do this. However, they are forced to take this action. They are forced to use the sum which they receive for their sites to build a new set of units. Often, they require donations from those coming into the new units in order to make ends meet. The Cottage Homes Incorporated organisation is at present attempting to raise funds in South Australia in order to modernise its units and save the community the resources about which I talk. I am sure that the Minister will support me in hoping that the appeal is successful; but there is doubt about this. How much better it would be it the Aged Persons Homes Act provided funds to enable organisations such as the Cottage Homes Incorporated to modernise their flats and thereby make a lot more people a lot happier. 
I remind the House that we have not had the time in this debate to be in touch with the relevant organisations in our electorates which will be affected by the legislation in order to ascertain their views about it. However, over the next week or so I will be learning about their views and I hope that I will be able to contact my colleagues in the Senate so that they can discuss this matter when the legislation comes before that chamber. However, in the meantime I congratulate the Minister for what is good in these 2 Bills. However, I also lay emphasis on what I consider to be the errors of omission. 
I am rising to support strongly the amendment moved by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  on behalf of the Opposition. I can agree with the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  when he pointed out how difficult it is for those who live within flight paths to find any peace and tranquility in their homes. One thing that has been driven home tonight - and this might sound very parish pump to some but indeed it is tremendously important to those who live anywhere near flight paths - is the fact that there has not been sufficient long term planning done in Australia during the 23 years of Liberal government to ensure that we do have airports in positions where the lives of people are not sorely tried. 
I congratulate the honourable member for St George on the way in which he took up the cudgels for many of the people who live in his electorate and who are badly troubled by aircraft noise. I also congratulate the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  who is fighting a hard battle to see that the necessary planning is put into effect in Perth. I also share with the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  his tremendous concern at what would seem to be some plan, about which he has not yet heard, to put Brisbane Airport in his electorate where such a move would make the lives of many people miserable. During the occasions on which I have visited Brisbane Airport recently I have wondered why so much money and resources are being put into the construction of a new TransAustralia Airline terminal there if indeed this change is to take place. 
But I want to talk about my own part of the world, Adelaide. Although my electorate of Adelaide is not adjacent to the airport it is in a flight path. Fortunately my electorate is not troubled too often by aircraft noise because aircraft are fairly high in the sky when they pass overhead. But by heavens, we know when a Boeing 707 moves in just what problems are created. Members of the Department of Civil Aviation who are with us tonight will perhaps remember the tremendous problems that were created when an airport in Victoria, which was used as a training ground for Qantas staff, was closed and Adelaide Airport was used for refuelling purposes for 707 aircraft involved in training flights in South Australia. I merely mention this to set the background for saying that we in South Australia believe it is high time that a little long term planning was effected in order to make available the necessary land for a second major airport in South Australia and also to reserve land for flight paths around that airport. If the proper long term planning is undertaken we will find that some sort of ceiling will be put on the size of Melbourne and Sydney which are becoming overlarge and indeed whether or not that happens, Adelaide is bound to grow. 
It is high time that Adelaide had an international airport. Clearly that international airport cannot be located at West Beach where the existing airport is situated. 
I would put the airport a fair distance to the north of Adelaide which would be about the only possible place for it to be located. The airport would need to be well out of the range of existing residents in Adelaide. Unless that land is put aside now, unless areas under flight paths are reserved now and unless there is planning on the part of local, State and Federal governments, we will have the same problems with the new airport that must come to Adelaide in 20 years time as we are having with the existing airports now. I am glad to say that the Labor Government in South Australia is putting its mind, to this planning. Only a year ago I was in the office of the Premier where I helped tostimulate a lot of activity to set up the necessary committee of Federal, State and perhaps by this time local government authorities to do this planning. I have raised, this matter with the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  who is sitting, in this great place of honour tonight. 
Perhaps the honourable member could tell me, if he rises to his feet again, how this planning is going, because if he is to be worth his salt in the little time that he will be in his present position he will push hard for the sake of South Australia for .this committee to make decisions so that the necessary land will be put aside for a new airport. 
There are 3 reasons why we need an international airport. We need it because at the moment South Australia is at a disadvantage in regard to international freights. I, among others, have been pushing for some form of freight equalisation to apply until South Australia has an international airport. It is important that South Australia should be able to compete for industries, notwithstanding this unfortunate situation,, with other States. It is important that freight costs of goods transported by air from South Australia, and from Adelaide in particular, should not be greater than they are from rival cities. Freight costs aretaken into consideration by industries when they are deciding whether to come to Adelaide. Therefore it is important for that reason that we have an international airport in Adelaide. 
Tourism is another factor. We have themagnificent Barossa Valley which is a great tourist resort. Adelaide is the most obvious stepping off place for tourism in the Northern Territory. Adelaide Airport would be used by people to go to the Northern. Territory to visit places such as Ayers Rock, Alice Springs and other areas of interest. This is another reason why Adelaide must have an international airport, probably sooner than later, and why we should plan for it now.. 
The third one is the convenience of the citizens of South Australia when they are travelling abroad. At the moment they have to pay the extra fares from Adelaide to Sydney or from Adelaide to Perth before they start on their way. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  pointed out in -question time today just how irrational those fares can be, when international travellers arriving at Perth on their way to Sydney pay $50 for that extra journey from Perth to Sydney, but when they are going the other way and they arrive in Sydney and want to go over to Perth they pay $150. That is some of the irrationality that exists in the field of civil aviation at the moment. 
In the few minutes I have left to speak to the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation I want to refer to the fantastic subsidy that is being paid through the Department of Civil Aviation estimates to Connair Pty Ltd, a private airline in the Northern Territory. Let me cite the figures. In 1969-70 the amount was no less than $447,739. In 1970-71 it climbed to $838,620. I have to pause at the 1971-72 amount because after 2 weeks of ringing the office of the Minister for Civil Aviation to obtain the amount I received the answer today that because the annual report of the Department of Civil Aviation has not yet been brought down these figures are not available to me. That is nothing short of scandalous. By the time the Government brings on this debate in this House we ought to have that report. That point was properly made by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  the shadow Minister for Shipping and Transport; that also includes civil aviation. Of course we should have the report. I make an inspired guess that this fantastic subsidy has increased this year to over $lm. We see from the estimates that the amount spent under this item of expenditure last year was $1,900,000. For 1972-73 the estimate is $2m. 
One of the anomalies about this situation is that, as vice-chairman of the Public Accounts Committee I could have pressed for a submission from the Department on the breakdown of the figures for a particular time. But just because I did not do that and waste of time and instead rang the Minister's office I did not receive it. There are a number of reasons why this subsidy is being paid. The main one is, I suggest, because of a tie-up between the Australian Country Party and this airline. I have done by homework on this by travelling quite a lot in the Northern Territory. There is no doubt that Ansett Airlines of Australia, Trans-Australia Airlines or another small airline could combine the work done by Connair and save $500,000 of the taxpayers money, without in any way withdrawing some of the important services to this rural area. Let me cite one example of where money is wasted. In Katherine Connair has a separate office with separate telex facilities. This is very expensive for very few flights in a week. Not even Ansett has telex facilities. Ansett could do it for far less money. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  for his contribution to this debate. I think it is a very worthy point that he brings up. We are, of course, debating the estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, the Department of the Treasury and the Advance to the Treasurer. I would like to have a little to say on each of these 3 headings. I deal first with the Advance to. the Treasurer. I would like to see in future years the report of the Public Accounts Committee on the Advance to the Treasurer come before this Parliament before we debate the estimates on this section of the Budget. This report will be presented next Thursday. I remind honourable members that one of the 3 main functions of the Public Accounts Committee is to look at the estimating from year to year. That look at the estimates takes into account not only where the estimates are underspent but also whether a call has been made on the Advance to the Treasurer. It is an important function of the Public Accounts Committee. The Committee does that work on behalf of this Parliament. As with so much of the work in this Parliament, it is like an iceberg; two-thirds of it is under the water, and I think we should be reminded in this chamber of the work of that Committee. 
I move on to the Department of the Treasury and make a few points about the responsibilities of that Department, first of all in relation to taxation. When we were debating the tax Bills I mentioned that the policy of the Australian Labor Party in relation to taxation is a 3-pronged policy. First of all, many moons ago we realised that we needed a Commonwealth inquiry into the whole field of taxation. We also realised that this will be a long term project; that the committee of inquiry which has been appointed by the Government will take a year longer to report than was expected. lt will probably have a history much like that of the Carter Committee in Canada or the royal commission into taxation in New Zealand, setting the course for the next 10 years. It is necessary to have a document such as the report this committee of inquiry will produce. 
Taxation is not something that can be or should be changed quickly overnight. People have to realise well in advance where the sights are levelled. That is why we have a second and third arm to our taxation policy, the second one being the setting up of an Australian taxation foundation along the lines of the Canadian Taxation Foundation. The third arm - I repeat what I said in the debate on the taxation Bills - is to utilise the tremendous talent that we know exists in the Taxation Office for closing loopholes and having a whole new look at taxation, but because of the political masters the Taxation Office has had for so long a lot of the avenues into which I believe it would like to con duct investigations and for which it has plans in its drawers have been closed to it. I promise the personnel in the Taxation Office that that talent will be unleashed and they will be given an opportunity to use these programmes and these plans when there is a change of government later this year. 
Coming back to the committee of inquiry which at least we have got, I want to make a couple of points. The first of them I made during question time in a question I put to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  and that is that if the real interests of this country were being served he would have consulted the Opposition in relation to the personnel of that committee of inquiry and also its terms of reference, because there are not many people in this country today who do not believe that there will soon be a change of government. I point out that I believe the present committee will be reporting to a Labor government. It would be so much more sensible if the personnel of the committee reflected the wide range of thoughts and philosophies which exist in our country. I do not know any of the members of the committee personally and I do not reflect on them. But I do not believe that any of them have much of a connection with the reform side of politics in this country. I think that it is important that somebody on the committee should have such a connection and look at things through the eyes of the vast number of people who vote Labor in this country. 
I am not suggesting that that person should be a member of the Australian Labor Party. But taxation is a matter in which philosophy and an attitude to life are involved. I believe that it is rather unfortunate that the committee is a narrow one. Before I move away from dealing with the personnel of the committee I would like to state that the same remarks apply to the terms of reference. They also should have been drawn up in consultation with our shadow treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  so that the work of the committee would be of value to a Labor government and not just to a non-Labor government. 
The second matter that I want to touch on is in relation to the Department of the Treasury also and relates to the Taxation Branch. It is the matter of publicising the names of those who are in default vis-a-vis the Taxation Act. I believe that it is terribly important that names of people who have been, we can almost say, really criminally involved in avoiding tax should be published. But it is my experience that some people - perhaps only a few - whose names are included in that list are people who have been avoiding tax rather that evading tax. They are people who have, perhaps through their advisers, taken one view of the law but the boards of review or the courts - whether it be a single judge, the Supreme Court or the High Court - have taken another view of the law. 
I may be wrong and I hope that if I am the Treasurer will correct me. But I have had some correspondence with the Treasurer on this subject. I do not like to see injustices done to individuals in our community. I believe that this matter is worth pursuing further. I hope the Treasurer or those who are representing him here tonight will look further into this matter and give me an explanation. I repeat that if people have been evading tax deliberately and criminally against the law the names of those people should be published along with the other penalties which they incur. But if it is a matter of opinion on the law and this opinion has gone against a person in the court, I think that some discretion should be shown. 
The next matter to which I wish to refer relates to the Public Service Board and the fact that we have in our midst at the moment until after the federal election  Dr David  Butler of Oxford University. I want to quote from a copy of the 'Canberra Times'. The headline states: 
PS 'spoilt' by years of Liberal rule. 
The article reads: 
British political scientist  Dr David  Butler chided the Commonwealth Public Service last night for being 'spoilt by 23 years of non-change', and for failing to give enough thought to the effects on the bureaucracy of a change of government.  Dr Butler  was addressing a meeting of the ACT group of the Royal Institute of Public Administration. 
The article further states: 

 Dr Butler suggested the British practice whereby duplicate files were prepared for the new minister giving all the fact and arguments, but free from any quotations or observations of his predecessor. 
I hope that the suspicions bred by 23 years of opposition will not lead an incoming Labor gov ernment here to act very differently from the British precedent',  Dr Butler  said. 
Dealing with the last quotation first, 1 can assure  Dr Butler  that an incoming Labor government will not act differently from its Labour counterpart in the United Kingdom. I believe that we will observe the sort of principles that  Dr Butler  has been laying down. The main purpose of my quoting this article is to draw the attention of the House to it, to the views of  Dr Butler  on the changeover of government and to state that I hope the Public Service Board is looking at this. Indeed, I hope that the Public Service generally is getting ready for a change of government because there is nothing more certain than that we will have a change of government. 
Has the Prime Minister noted that the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Don  Dunstan, has called for a special Premiers Conference to discuss urgently the tragic unemployment situation highlighted by the bad figures that have just been read to us and which were released last night? What is the Prime Minister's attitude to this call? Has he also noted that the South Australian Labor Government has appropriated $2m from scarce State funds in order to stimulate employment in the Adelaide metropolitan area? Will the Commonwealth Government reimburse this amount and indeed add to it? If not, why is this Commonwealth Government prepared directly to stimulate rural employment and to ignore the sorry plight of the metropolitan unemployed? 
Before the suspension of the sitting we were debating 2 Bills - the States Grants Bill (No. 2) 1972 and the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill (No. 3) 1972- both of which relate to the transfer of funds from the Commonwealth to the States. To put the matter into perspective for those who are not familiar with these Bills, I point out that the States Grants Bill (No. 2) 1972 gives effect to the revision of financial assistance grants arrangements made at the Premiers Conference which was held in June. 
This Bill has 3 aspects. The first adds $11 2m to the financial assistance grant and builds that amount into the formula laid down in the present Act. The second aspect is to increase the existing $2 per capita grant paid to New South Wales and Victoria to $3.50. Added to the formula grants, this does have a beneficial effect in regard to my own State of South Australia and also Queensland and Tasmania because of the operations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The third aspect of the Bill is to provide $3. 5m extra for Western Australia. This was one of the decisions taken at the Premiers Conference held in June of this year. Altogether, $128m extra funds will be appropriated to the States. 
The States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill (No. 3) 1972 authorises capital grants to the States totalling $261,879,000. This is more of a machinery Bill which allocates to the States for works and housing amounts totalling $248,539,000 and an extra amount for schools, about which we heard earlier in the parliamentary year, totalling $13,340,000. The fact is that the Opposition is thankful for what is given in these Bills. For years we have recognised that the States have been starved of funds. The great development that has taken place in Australia and the great migration programme have, to a great extent, been at the expense of the State budgets. We have witnessed a reduction in the per capita debt of the Commonwealth whilst the per capita debt of the States, because of insufficient funds with which to discharge their responsibilities in so many fields such as housing and education, has been increasing. So we are glad to see the need for this assistance recognised in Bills such as the two before us. We are glad that some more appropriations are to be made to the States to help them with the problems that they have. 
I am pleased also to note that an increasing proportion of grants vis-a-vis borrowings have been made available to the States in these Bills. However, it would be wrong, having outlined what is in the Bills and having given credit where credit is due, to leave the matter there because the problems in Commonwealth-State relations, particularly in Commonwealth-State financial relations that we are dealing with today, are still enormous. To illustrate this I merely have to point lo a couple of newspaper articles which appeared last week when the second reading debate on these Bills commenced. The first article to which I draw attention appeared in the 'Australian' of 1 3th September last and related to the State Budget in Victoria. The headline stated: Hamer hits out at "fiscal inequity"'. The article carries the sub-heading: 
States have to depend on an ad hoc, patch and mend system of Federal aid from year to year' - Hamer. 

 Mr Hamer, as we know, is the Premier of Victoria. He is not a member of my own Party, the Australian Labor Party, but is a member of the Government Party. I would like to read to honourable members his opinion of the existing situation as outlined in the article, which is a report of what  Mr Hamer  had to say in his Budget speech: 
The Victorian Budget handed down in State Parliament yesterday again emphasised the inadequacy and inequity of Commonwealth-State financial relations, the Premier,  Mr Hamer  said. in his Budget speech he attacked the financial relations and accused the Commonwealth of forcing the States to depend on 'ad hoc patch and mend arrangements from year to year'. 
He said no satisfactory formula had been found to reimburse the States for loss of income tax. 

 Mr Hamer budgeted for a cash deficit of $17m - S7 more than last year's deficit. 
The State's reliance on the Commonwealth for funds gives the clue to the small amounts allocated to the new ministries of the Arts, Environment and Decentralisation. 
I repeat that what I have just read is  a  quotation from a newspaper report of  Mr Hamer's  Budget speech. 
A week before the presentation of  Mr Hamer's  Budget, the Tasmanian Budget was presented. On 12th September the Australian' carried a report of the actions of  Mr Reece  in trying to discharge his responsibilities in Tasmania. The headline to the article stated: 'Tasmania ready to make tax deal'. The article continued: 
Tasmania will drop its proposed 10 per cent tobacco tax if the Federal Treasurer is prepared to make a deal, the Premier  Mr Reece,  said yesterday. 

 Mr Reece said that Tasmania would cancel the 7i per cent consumption tax and  H  per cent licence fee on the sale of tobacco if  Mr Snedden  was prepared to make a sufficient and sensible deal'. 

 Mr Reece introduced the tax in last week's Budget- 
It would be now the Budget of 2 weeks ago: and made his offer to drop it while opening the Federal conference of the Miscellaneous Workers Union in Hobart. 
Tasmania was forced to level unpleasant taxes because it was not getting a fair deal from the Commonwealth, he said. 
We are fighting down here for a place in the sun from the big blokes in Canberra', he said. 
Yet we find there is an increase of more than $440m in Commonwealth taxation revenue this year*. 
He said the Commonwealth had adopted an unrealistic attitude to Tasmania's position as a small State. 
I thought it wise to quote from articles relating to the Premier of Victoria and the Premier of Tasmania to point out that there is so much more that needs to be done in Commonwealth-State relations and particularly Commonwealth-State financial relations. I detected in the second reading speeches of the Minister for Supply and Minister assisting the Teasurer  (Mr Garland)  on these Bills an aura of complacency in this field, as though the giving of the pay-roll tax to the States, for instance, had now ended their problems. Those problems are still enormous. 
I would like to quote a saying of the late  Mr Frank  Walsh, a former Premier of South Australia, because think it is worth putting into Hansard again.  Mr Walsh  said: 
If education and hospitals were Commonwealth responsibilities and Civil Aviation and post offices were Slates' responsibilities I wonder would we have the same distribution of resources amongst these functions as we do now. 
I will answer the late  Mr Walsh's  question by saying: 'Of course we would not'. The fact is that there is finance available for Commonwealth responsibilities but there is great poverty in the States which prevents them financing their responsibilities. We have only to look at the deficits in the budgets from State to State this year to realise that. We only have to realise how important it is, for instance, that the State of South Australia be allocated more funds at this time of great unemployment. I rose in question time today to present a serious situation in South Australia in relation to unemployment and the call by the Premier of Victoria last Friday for a Premiers Conference on this very issue. It is only by help from the Commonwealth that we will cure the tremendous problem that exists in Australia at the present time. The Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  has made available another $2m of the scarce State funds to try to do something about unemployment but, as every responsible member of this House knows, the real responsibility does not lie in State budgets. The States do not have the wherewithal to cure the unemployment problem. The real responsibility lies with the Commonwealth. We have this low level of economic activity and this high level of unemployment today because of the 1971 Commonwealth Budget and some related matters. 1 suggest that it was wilfully misleading of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  at question time today to pretend that it was the Labor States' policies that were responsible for a higher level of unemployment in Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania. Let us take them in turn. Every responsible member of this Parliament realises that the cause of the extra unemployment in Western Australia is the fact that so many resources were put into the great development over there at the time of building up the mineral projects in the north-west, that the mineral demand from Japan in particular has come to an end and that the development programmes have tailed off. That is clearly the reason for the level of unemployment in Western Australia. In South Australia a tremendous number of our resources are tied up in the consumer durables manufacturing industry - washing machines, motor cars and so on. South Australia is always the first State hit when there is the slightest slump. There is a clear reason, unrelated to whatever complexion of State government we have in that State, for our unemployment. 
South Australia wants to see a high level of activity throughout the Commonwealth so that there may be demand for the products such as motor cars, television sets and refrigerators that are made there. The responsibility for a low level of demand for those products and for the level of unemployment in that State must clearly be sheeted home to the Commonwealth Government. Tasmania has particular problems relating to freight rates. I repeat that it is wilfully misleading for any Minister in this Parliament to pretend, as happened today, that the high level of unemployment has anything to do with the State administrations in those 3 States. The problem is definitely a Commonwealth one and there ought to be Commonwealth discrimination in favour of those States because of their particular disabilities. The Commonwealth Government that we have at present is failing to carry out that sort of action. 
I turn now to the Australian Labor Party's attitude towards the matter of Commonwealth-State relations. I draw attention to an excellent paper by Professor Russell Mathews, Professor of Accounting at the Australian National University, Canberra, on the subject of Commonwealth-State relations. He said: 
There are several courses of action that may be followed with a view to achieving better balance between financial powers and responsibilities. 
He lists them as follows: 
Transfer of functions from the States to the Commonwealth; transfer of taxing powers or other revenue sources from the Commonwealth to the States. 
Since he wrote this paper there has been the transfer of the payroll tax. I suggest that that has not been a success. Because the States are so starved of funds they have been forced into increasing the level of payroll tax. I will agree that this has had an effect on employment in the States, because the higher you make the cost of labour the less likelihood there is of labour being employed. This is not due to something going into men's pockets; it is due to an increase in payroll tax forced on the States because of a shortage of funds and because the Commonwealth has given them that tax to help them to discharge their responsibilities. 
The other courses of action mentioned by Professor Mathews were: 
Action to provide for the sharing of administrative responsibility of economic decisions by both levels of government; Action by the States to make more effective use of their existing financial powers; and increased use of Commonwealth grants within the framework of the existing division of responsibility. 
He makes the valid point that any solution of the Commonwealth-States financial problems must be partially involved in all of those courses of action which he set out. That is as we see it in the Labor Party. 1 now draw attention to a statement on this very subject of Commonwealth, State and civic finances and functions made by Federal and State Labor leaders as long ago as 13th March 1970. They said: 
We believe that a new era of joint Commonwealth, State and Local Government co-operation is essential. We propose joint secretariates in each area of common interest between the States and the Commonwealth to ensure maximum involvement of all elected persons and the public in decision-making. The Inter-State Commission will be re-established and the role of the Commonwealth Grants Commission expanded to service these joint secretariats. 
They went on later in the report to say: 
State and Local Governments, as a result of Liberal policies, have resorted to oppressive and unfair taxation to meet their expanding responsibilities. Even so, they cannot meet just demands on them for public services and meet their increasing debt charges. We believe that the States and Local Government must be assisted in those areas where expenditure will inevitably rise more rapidly than income and population. States must he guaranteed no loss of present revenues. States must be relieved of their growing interest burden and State and Local Governments must be given non-repayable Commonwealth grants for their capital works. 
It is the setting up of the joint secretariats in what we like to call a new era of cooperative federalism that will be the special feature of an Australian Labor Party approach to Commonwealth-State relations. I point out that it is only in the field of education in the last 23 years of non-Labor government that we have had any new initiative in the sphere of getting together between the Commonwealth and the States. I am referring, of course, to the Australian Universities Commission as a start in this field. We have to go back to the time of the Chifley Government to find the previous initiatives in this field. Under the Chifley Government we had the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement and the Commonwealth-States Housing Agreement initiated; we had federal moneys first allocated for hospitals; and we had the agreement on rail standardisation, to mention just a few. There is a tremendous number of fields in which we need initiatives such as those right now, particularly when it comes to local government and other kinds of financing. 
The statement that I was reading earlier alluded to some of these fields. It said: 
The Commonwealth must accept increased responsibility in a number of areas. In each of these areas such Commonwealth grants as are made should not be on conditions set solely, by the Commonwealth but on conditions on which both Commonwealth and States fully consult and agree. 
Let us see what some of these fields are. The statement continued: 
The Commonwealth Government must assume as much responsibility for city development and redevelopment as do the Federal Governments in the United States of America, Canada and West Germany. The moneys released by the approaching completion of inter-city rail standardisation should be turned to modernising internal city public transit systems. 
This is something in which I, as a capital city member, am extremely interested. For some days now I have been trying to get the call at question time to raise a question with the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in relation to an urban public transport study which was apparently commissioned by the Austalian Transport Advisory Council as long ago as July 1971. We have heard no more about it. Rumour has it that this study has been completed and that a report has been made to the Commonwealth and State Ministers for Transport who met together a couple of months ago. I believe that the report must have been pigeon-holed. This is the sort of area in which there must be new initiatives and a new era of cooperation between the Commonwealth and the States. I hope that it will not be long now before we have a Federal Labor government which will take such initiatives and which will indeed set a new era in relations - an era which we will call an era of co-operative federalism. 
As the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  resumes his seat I feel constrained to say that there goes the voice of the speculator in this Parliament, the mouthpiece of the profiteers, or, if honourable members would like that in Latin, vox speculatorum That term reflects the whole tenor of the speech of the honourable member. Who would think after listening to him that the Opposition is supporting this Bill? Perhaps I should say that the Opposition is not opposing it. That is just one example of the misleading nature of his speech. However, I must confess that we do have a lot to say about the errors of omission in this Bill. We are pleased that the Bill does give assistance to a limited extent. We are happy about a tax free grant being available to some people. We realise that it does provide an amount of gain for a number of people in the community. We are happy that the changes will correct the disadvantages brought about by the decline in the value of money. 
When speaking about the decline in the value of money in this community I am reminded of the promise made in 1949 by  Mr Menzies,  then Leader of the Liberal Party, when he said: 'We will put value back into the pound'. That is the most hollow promise ever made in Australia. An example of patchwork legislation making up for that promise is the Bill which is now before the House. The maximum value of a home which will attract a grant under this Bill is increased from $17,500 to $22,500; of course that is merely taking into account the decline in the value of money. The maximum grant has risen from $500 on acceptable savings of $1,500 to $750 on acceptable savings of $2,250. Of course, again that is taking into account only the decline in the value of money. The savings limit for one year has been lifted from $600 to $900, merely taking into account the decline in the value of money. The examples go on. 
The Government's own sins are such that it has to do something to correct them with legislation of this type. In drawing attention to those factors,  Mr Deputy 

 Speaker, I am showing you that I know what is contained in the Bill, although I am going to spend most of my time talking about the errors of omission in this legislation. If the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who is now seated at the table, would listen instead of talking and trying to be clever with his attempted interjections I would ask him why savings in Commonwealth bonds are not acceptable savings under this legislation. I ask, through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  whether the Minister at the table heard my question. Why are not Investments in Commonwealth bonds acceptable savings under this legislation? I understand that that is the case. I would be glad if the Minister would give an answer in his reply at the end of this second reading debate. I have received a few representations about this particular matter, but they have come only in the last couple of weeks and that is why I have not got in touch with the Minister directly. If Commonwealth bonds are not classed as acceptable savings I hope that an amendment can bc moved to make Commonwealth bonds an acceptable investment under this particular legislation. 
I am glad that before coming into the chamber I received in my Canberra office an interim statement of the Secretary of the Department of Housing for the year 1971-72 in relation to the Homes Savings Grant Act. It enabled me to take a quick look at whether my own State of South Australia was benefiting on the average under this legislation. It seemed to me that this was so. Perhaps when the Minister is replying he could also take advantage of this document and tell us which States are benefiting most from this legislation, which States are lagging behind, and the reasons. The main purpose of legislation such as this should be to reduce the misery which is present in our community due to lack of adequate housing, lt is to this that we should turn our minds when considering the legislation. Housing trust waiting lists throughout Australia, I understand, at the moment contain 90,000 to 100,000 names and the situation is getting worse. Can we say that legislation such as this has had any effect on housing problems in Australia when the increase in people waiting for homes has been so marked? 
This legislation is shot through with omissions to tackle the real problem which is adequately to house more people. It attacks only one half of the problem of supply-demand relationship. It docs provide more demand for that product which is in short supply, namely, land and whatever buildings are on it. It puts some more money in people's pockets. I do not deny to those people who are benefiting under it what they are getting. It puts more money in their pockets and it creates more demand. But I believe that all the worthwhile surveys in our community on this legislation have shown that the greatest benefit has gone to the speculators. Of every $500 that has been given under this Bill 1 venture to say that at least $250 has gone in extra profit to those who happen to hold land - who happen to be investing in that commodity which is in short supply. 
Another thing which this legislation has done, rather, than house more people - and we can see that it has not housed sufficient people because of the waiting lists to which I have just referred - and which is of benefit to the community is to improve the standards of housing. But this is not attacking the main problem. 1 concede that people who have benefited under this legislation are probably in better housing than they would have been without it. They may have larger and better quality homes with more rooms and better interiors. Perhaps better materials are used in those homes. But as far as we on this side of the House are concerned, if we are basing policies on greatest need then the greatest need is to house more people so as to overcome those social problems in the community which are so well exemplified in housing trust wailing lists. This legislation does precious little about that problem. 
Let us look at what has happened to the supply side of this commodity - land - in recent years. A survey conducted by the Housing Industry Association from 1960 to 1970 showed that new lots in Sydney increased in price by 150 per cent; the increase in Melbourne was 57 per cent and in Brisbane 52 per cent. In almost the same period, from 1961 to 1971, the average weekly earnings increased in our community by only 80 per cent. That gives some indication of how the price of land has increased out of all proportion to average weekly earnings. Another survey held in respect of the years 1968 to 1971 showed that medium priced land increased in Sydney by 65 per cent; in Perth by 40 per cent; in Brisbane by 34 per cent; in Melbourne by 28 per cent; in Adelaide by 23 per cent and in Hobart by 51 per cent. Over the same period average weekly earnings rose by 43 per cent in Sydney; by 44 per cent in Perth; by 44 per cent in Brisbane; by 42 per cent in Melbourne; by 38 per cent in Adelaide and by 41 per cent in Hobart. That is another example of the price of land increasing out of all proportion to average weekly earnings. This has been during a period when this legislation has operated. It is totally useless as far as its effect on the price of land is concerned. All that it is doing is increasing the demand for land and of course, as I have said, having some good by-product effects at the same time. 
I will remind honourable members how this is related to the Bill because as I understand it the rationale behind the Bill is to improve housing conditions in Australia and perhaps to reduce the great misery that is created by a lack of housing. Although we are Federal members I suppose there is not one member of this House who represents a metropolitan area who would not get a tremendous number of housing inquiries brought to him each week in the course of his electoral work. This gives us an idea of just how silly it is for the honourable member for Bennelong, the previous  speaker  in this debate, to get up and talk about this as being a State problem The States are not in a position to do anything about this problem. Leadership has to be given by the Commonwealth. If the honourable member was not present in the House last night, he may not be aware that at long last, because we are in an election year, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has grasped this fact. 
In his decentralisation statement, inadequate though it was in so many areas, he at least conceded that we have to have a few growth centres throughout Australia, that we should concentrate on them and that the Commonwealth itself must take up land in these centres because it is only by this means that we are going to be able to tackle the problem of the supply of land in our community. I might add that those matters on which the Prime Minister touched last night in his paper on decentralisation were, as somebody said at the time, only a matter of rehashing what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has been saying for 10 years. Of course it is Labor Party policy to do just this - to have the Commonwealth itself set up a land development authority in order to have a control over the supply of land. I think there is no greater social problem in our community which should be tackled than this. I believe this is the only way of tackling it. I myself am at this stage unconcerned as to whether the authority should merely lease the land or indeed sell it. But if the authority is to sell the land so that there may be a revolving fund, the sale should be made only on the condition that the land can be sold again only to the authority, perhaps at an appreciated price related to the decline in the value of money in the meantime and the value of improvements which have been put on the land. 
Another factor which of course must be mentioned when dealing with the problem of housing is the putting of a ceiling on the size of Melbourne and Sydney and, soon, my own city of Adelaide and other large capital cities in Australia. It is only by doing this and by creating job opportunities elsewhere outside these capital cities that we are going to be able to tackle this problem of the price of land. I must mention in this context the one heartening initiative taken in Australia in recent years, namely that which was taken by Don Dunstan, the Premier of South Australia, when he announced the machinery to plan Murray Newtown in the electorate of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles). 
I am very glad that the honourable member for Angas, even though he is a Government supporter, recognises that that is an excellent initiative because once again it is only by the Commonwealth being able at this early stage to put aside land for the building of a new city and controlling the price of that land that we will in future control the price of land. We need new cities. Adelaide needs a new city far less than Sydney and Melbourne but unfortunately for Sydney and Melbourne they do not have a government which believes in this sort of planning because they are dominated by members such as the honourable member for Bennelong and the out-of-date attitudes which he expounded in the course of his speech on this Bill. I might add in this context that the Opposition has no intention at all of abandoning the excellent country towns that do exist. But the people in those country towns, if they have the facts put to them as the facts should be put to them, must realise that it is only by choosing country growth centres that we are going to get decentralisation away from the big cities. 
I know that I am just about to be told by the Minister for Housing that I am straying from the provisions of the Bill so I will tell the House why my remarks are still very much related to it. This Bill deals with only one part of that supply-demand relationship in the housing situation. It will stimulate demand but if the real problem is to be tackled we have to do something about the supply of land in this community. 
I summarise by saying that we do have a housing crisis in this community, that this Bill does not help it in any way, that our problem is a shortage of serviced land, that housing construction costs have increased but in no way has that increase been at the same rate as the increase in the price of land. Only when we have a Labor government which will use the proposed land authority to buy up land will this plan for new growth succeed. Indeed, the Government has indicated that it is prepared to buy up land, but until we are prepared to buy up land around our cities as well as in growth centres we will not be able to do anything about this problem of housing in the community - a problem which this present Government has had 23 years to do something about and a problem which steadily is getting worse from day to day. 

 Sir JOHN CRAMER (Bennelong)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Prime Minister made his statement on urban and regional development and that I knew nothing about the proposed authority. I was present in the House and, if the honourable member looks at Hansard over the last 15 or 20 years, he will find that I have advocated the setting up of the authority which was announced last night. 

 Mr HURFORD (Adelaide)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. If the honourable member for Bennelong looks at the Hansard record tomorrow he will find that I did not say that at all. I said: 'If he was not present in the House last night, he would not be aware'. I did not say that he was not in the House last night. 
I seek to make a personal explanation,  Mr Deputy Chairman. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Does the honourable member for Adelaide claim to have been misrepresented? 
I do claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  1 am afraid I cannot recall his long and rather exalted title, but I will call him the honourable member for Boothby in my personal explanation. He stated at the beginning of his speech that I had misled the House when I said that the Liberal Party's firm of advertising agents in South Australia had foreign ownership included in its shareholding. I am afraid I have not seen the Hansard record to note the particular interjection that was picked up to this effect, but I will have a look at it and alter lt if I am at fault. But I will state now that that firm is called Martin Kinnear Clemenger Pty Ltd. Each one of its directors is very well known to me. I have a tremendous amount of praise for its ability. It has an extremely difficult subject in the Liberal Party to cover and it does the best of a bad job. It has included among its shareholding Clemengers of Melbourne. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order!  1  ask the honourable member not to debate the question. 
I am coming to the point of my personal explanation. It has included among its shareholding Clemengers of Melbourne. Clemengers has included among its shareholding overseas shareholders. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I ask the honourable member to state where he was misrepresented. 
I was misrepresented when the honourable member for Boothby suggested that I had misled the House in an interjection yesterday when I stated that the South Australian Liberal Party's advertisers was a company which had foreign shareholding. I have now outlined to the House how what I said is perfectly correct. 

 Mr McLEAY (Boothby - Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Civil Aviation) - I seek to make a personal explanation.  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  1 have the advantage over him in that I happen to have read the Hansard report of yesterday's debate and have a copy of it with me. I do not know how he can claim to have been misrepresented without knowing what he said. I shall quote what he said. It appears at page  1552  of Hansard. The honourable member said: 
Your own advertising is going through foreign owned agencies. 
What I have been trying to do for the last  10  minutes is to demonstrate that that is totally untrue. The honourable member should withdraw and apologise. Talking about Commonwealth advertising, there is an advisory council which advises- 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! Do not debate the question. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The Assistant Minister is debating the question. I call the honourable member for Hunter. 
by leave- I wish to make a few remarks on the reports just presented to the House, and I thank the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  and the House for giving me the opportunity to do so. So much of the work of  thi  Parliament does not come to the surface, and the work of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts is a good example of this. Usually the reports of the Committee are presented to this Parliament and, frankly, are placed on the table with a dull thud. Because I am worried that the reports presented today may fall into that category, I would like to say a few words to support the official statement of the Committee just read so competently, if I may say so, by the Committee's  Chairman,  the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham). 
The Public Accounts Committee has 3 general functions to fulfil in acting as the watchdog of this Parliament, and thus of the people, in the whole field of public expenditure. Its first function is to examine the estimating of departments. This means examining the contingency funds, known as the Advance to the Treasurer, to seek reasons why departments have needed extra money from contingency funds late in the financial year. Also it means examining the Consolidated Revenue Fund to see why money appropriated has not been used. The second function of the Committee is to examine the Auditor-General's Report. Honourable members will be aware that this year's report has just been presented to the Parliament and at the moment the Public Accounts Committee is in the process of examining it and deciding which items in the Auditor-General's Report it will follow through. The third function of the Committee is to carry out in depth inquiries into government departments or semi-governmental authorities. These inquiries can be directed to individual departments or authorities or they can be what we call across the board inquiries such as the one conducted into internal audit about which we have heard today in the statement brought before this House by the  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee. 
The Committee having carried out these 3 functions and having reported to the Parliament, has an excellent follow-up procedure. The Treasury seeks answers on the points raised by the Public Accounts Committee and, when this follow-up procedure is completed in relation to each report presented by the Public Accounts Committee, a Treasury minute is brought to this House in the form of a further Public Accounts Committee report. I might add that we keep an index of outstanding Treasury minutes so that we know which reports have not yet been followed through. 
We have seen in the reports brought to the House this morning, examples of a number of the functions I have just outlined. The 138th report of the Committee is, as the honourable member for North Sydney told us, a Treasury minute. In other words, it is a follow-up report. Actually it relates to 2 previous reports, one being on an in depth inquiry into the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories and the other being a Treasury minute on the Consolidated Revenue Fund and instances in which departments had not used all the revenue allocated to them, as long ago as 1968-69. On occasions it takes some time for the Treasury to report on the follow-up inquiry after the Public Accounts Committee report has been brought down. The 139th report relates to an in depth inquiry into internal audit. We look forward to receiving the follow-up report of the Treasury in relation to this internal audit report. 
I hope that this reminder of the functions and workings of the Public Accounts Committee will assist the House, and that from time to time a few ad hoc comments, such as those I have just made, from members of the Public Accounts Committee will further assist the understanding by the House, and thus by the people, of the work carried out by the Public Accounts Committee. The Public Service, in most areas, does not have the profit motive to spur it to efficiency. What it does have, and it is most important indeed that it should have this, is public scrutiny. This is carried out by the Public Accounts Committee on behalf of the Parliament and the people of Australia. 
1 seek leave to make a short statement on the report of the Public Accounts Committee. . 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Were consultants appointed recently for the new Sydney Airport after applications had been called all over the world. 
Was an overseas firm appointed to the position. 
Did a number of prominent Australian firms lodge applications, some of them in partnership with acknowledged world leaders in the field of airport engineering and design. 
If so, why was an overseas firm with no Australian affiliations appointed to this position. 
Can he say whether at least one Australian firm of consultants has been appointed to a similar position elsewhere in the world. 
Is it a fact that Australian firms competing for similar projects overseas will now find it extremely difficult to achieve such appointments because of their lack of success in their own country due to Government policy. 
Will the Government take steps to ensure that Australian consultants are used in conjunction with the successful overseas firm even though this is no substitute for the Australian firms themselves being appointed initially to the position. 
I want first to say something about the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs if only because they do not include any appropriation whatsoever for educating the Australian people further in the need for aid for developing countries. I take this opportunity of paying tribute to the World Council of Churches and also the Roman Catholic Church for the sums that they have appropriated to build up the Action for World Development programme and of saying how valuable I think it has been in our community. The fact is that I have  a  question on notice concerning my belief that the Australian Government should be assisting in this work. The first part of my question reads: 
Did a General Assembly Meeting of the United Nations in New York in 1970 adopt Resolution 2626 (XXV) proclaiming the Second United Nations Development Decade starting from 1st January 1971 and an International Development Strategy for the Decade? 
Of course, frankly I can answer my own question. The answer is yes, this was adopted. The second part of my question reads: 
Did clause 84 of the Strategy state that an essential part of the work during the Decade will consist of the mobilisation of public opinion in both developing and developed countries in support of the objectives and policies for the Decade and that governments may give consideration to the establishment of new national bodies or to strengthening the existing ones designed to mobilise public opinion? 
The answer again is yes, this was adopted. The third part of my question reads: 
Did Australia announce that it fully supported the International Development Strategy for the Second United Nations Development Decade. 
The answer to that question also is yes. By answering the question I am doing the work for the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Bowen).  Then we come to the crux ot the matter. The fourth part of my question reads: 
If so, (a) what action has the Government taken to honour its obligations under clause 84 of the Strategy- 
I am afraid that the answer to that will be that the Government has not taken any action whatsoever. The fourth part continues: 
what has the Government done to mobilise public opinion- 
We have seen a very nice report brought down in this chamber. It is a glossy, well prepared report but that report has been laid on the table of this chamber with a pretty dull thud and without much influence on public opinion in this country. Part 4 of my question continues: and (c) has consideration been given to establishing a national body to mobilise opinion or to strengthen an existing body which does this work? 
I am interested in this part of the question - I do not know the answer - because I believe that the Government should have given this sound consideration and it should be helping the Action for World Development programme. 1 have learned that this programme is supposed to continue for another 2 years. The programme needs the support of government. Our own Government has voted at the United Nations in favour of this particular resolution. Part of the resolution was that we should be mobilising public opinion in this way. I trust that the Government will turn its mind to this matter. I wanted to say these few words in this debate before moving on to the Department of External Territories. 
I echo the words of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and also the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  in congratulating the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Peacock)  on the job that he has done since taking over this portfolio. I think that if the Minister were fair, and if this were not an election year he in turn would pay tribute to the Leader of the Opposition for the wonderful job he did in January 1970 when he visited Papua New Guinea. Indeed, any objective observer would realise that the visit by the Leader of the Opposition created the catalyst through which all the splendid developments that we now see taking place in Papua New Guinea have come. I repeat that the visit by the Leader of the Opposition created that catalyst. It is to the credit of the Minister that he accepted the challenges that were laid down at that time and that we have achieved a development of the policy in the way that we .ire now seeing it. 
There are 27 Commonwealth departments and I think we could agree that in 26 of those departments there is a great need for a change of outlook. The Department of External Territories is the one exception that proves the rule. The change came with the new Minister and it is very stimulating for those of us who have been able to visit that country to see what has happened in Papua New Guinea. Having said that, that is the honey and now comes a bit of the salt, because I also support what the honourable member for Kingston said about the position of the Army in that country. Let me make it clear to the Committee that at the moment about $2Sm of the Australian taxpayers' money is being spent on the defence resources in Papua New Guinea. I am not going to pass judgment on whether this is a correct sum and I am not going to pass judgment on how this money is being spent in Papua New Guinea other than to say that it is my belief that it should be spent through the Department of External Territories and not directly through an appropriation to the Department of the Army. I need not linger on this, because I know the Minister's answer in a previous debate has been that it is our obligations under our United Nations treaty relating to New Guinea in particular, which make it necessary for this sum to be spent directly from Australia. 1 do not entirely accept this argument, because I believe that we could very well delegate our responsibilities for defence and, indeed, to an extent for foreign affairs, to the Administrator in Papua New Guinea,  His  Honour  Mr Les  Johnson. I believe that he could have these powers delegated to him by the Minister hers and although, in fact, of course this would mean that  Mr Michael  Somare and the Administrator's Executive Council would not de jure be making the decisions in this sphere, in practice de facto they would be making those decisions. I also realise that the Minister has gone some way towards this.  Mr Michael  Somare is now a defence spokesman. I am sure there is a lot of consultation on these matters between the Administrator's Executive Council, the Administrator and, indeed, the Minister foi External Territories. In my view it would be a great improvement if we went one stage further and delegated these powers to Papua New Guinea and appropriated this $25m through the estimates for tha Department of External Territories. J feel it would then be clearer that it would be the Papua New Guinea Government itself -  Mr Michael  Somare and his Cabinet - which would decide whether this money should be spent on defence. We do not want to take the S25m away from the Territory. It needs it. But the Government of Papua New Guinea may prefer to spend some of it in another way, or it may consider that it needs more defence and spend more of the appropriation going through the Department of External Territories on defence. 
I draw the Minister's attention to the $40m or thereabouts being appropriated directly from Australia for what I call marginal salaries for expatriates in the Territory. I believe that, although there was good reason a year or two ago why this money should be seen to be coming from Australia rather than through the Department of External . Territories, that reason has now gone. Recently  Mr Michael  Somare said that he believed that there should not be more than 3,000 expatriates, or Australians, working in the Papua New Guinea Administration, if I understood him correctly. He has made this decision. There is now no excuse for this $40m not forming part of the appropriation made through the Department of External Territories. Indeed, as part and parcel of this should go a decision of this Government to provide a reasonable employment security scheme to those people who are surplus to requirements. Australia has one of the most sophisticated Public Service organisations in the world. I believe that we have made a mistake in foisting on to Papua New Guinea a similarly sophisticated Public Service establishment. I believe that the first step has now been taken to see that the Public Service establishment in Papua New Guinea is not so sophisticated or expensive. It is time we welded this in with a proper employment security scheme for those Australians who now have to return to this country. 
 I am very glad of the opportunity to continue some remarks that I made primarily, on the estimates for the Department of External Territories. I am grateful that the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  believes that I should have this opportunity. I want to continue my remarks by reminding the chamber that earlier on I pointed out that although there are  27  departments of the Commonwealth Government,  26  of which we on this side of the Committee believe need a whole new reappraisal, new thinking and new stimulus in regard to members of the public service who run them, one department, the Department of External Territories, is an exception. The stimulus in regard to Papua New Guinea came from a visit to that country by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in January  1970.  He created the catalyst through which so many good things have come in regard to the Territory's development to selfgovernment and then later to independence. 
Having said that, I would like to point out that there are one or two areas where I believe there are distinct differences between the attitudes of the Government and the attitudes of the Opposition in regard to Papua New Guinea. One of them is the Army, and I will not dwell on that again tonight. Another is the na?r of appropriating $40m, which at the moment goes directly from Austraia  to  Papua New Guinea under, I believe, the estimates of the Prime Minister's Department or maybe some other department rather than through the Department of External Territories. This amount is being spent on the extra salaries of Australians working in Papua New Guinea. I want to add to those  2  areas of difference by pointing out that I hope that an Australian Labor Party government will give the Government of Papua New Guinea - the Administrator's Executive Council as the Cabinet of that country is known now  -  n:n idea of what the long term financial commitments of this country will be. Perhaps those commitments could be given over a 5,  6  or  7  year term. lt has been of great interest to me personally to go to Papua New Guinea and find there a department of economic planning such as we on this side of the Parliament think we ought to have in Australia. I am referring to the Office of Programming and Co-ordination, which is one of the departments of government in Papua New Guinea, The Office of Programming and Co-ordination was not brought to Papua New Guinea because of some clear thinking on the part of Australian politicians. I believe it was brought to Papua New Guinea because of the advice  of  the World Bank and the United Nations which, of course, have taken such an interest in that part of the world. The Office has given to the economic planning of that country a cohesion which would not exist without it. It does, I believe, cause some problems for the Treasury up there but in my view it is something which ought to be emulated in this country and something which I hope an Australian Labor Party Government will give to this country. 
That Office of Programming and Coordination, so far as I can see, is working with one arm tied behind its back, because one of the main sources of funds for Papua New Guinea is the appropriation by this Parliament. As is so common with the way in which we work in this country at the present time, that appropriation is made from year to year. So although there is the nucleus there of a department which can do some effective long term planning it does not know enough about Australia's commitment to that country in order to make the maximum use of the Office of Programming and Co-ordination. So I hope that we will be able to change this situation. I hope that if by some sad mischance the Australian Labor Party is not governing in Australia over the next year the Minister for Foreign Affairs who is at the table will have an influence on the incoming government and will see to it that a longer term commitment is made to Papua New Guinea rather than the present ad hoc year to year commitment. 
I might add that this fits in very well with a lot of the speeches that we have heard in this debate tonight because we are debating not only the appropriation for the Department of External Territories but also the appropriation for the Department of Foreign Affairs. Many honourable members have taken the opportunity to speak of aid for developing countries. We ail realise that a tremendous amount of the aid from Australia does go to Papua New Guinea. The point I want to make arising from that is that it will be good for this country when we do not have to put so much of our aid into one basket, namely, the Papua New Guinea basket, and can spread more of it around to others of our neighbours. We have a tremendous task to carry out in Vietnam to make up for the sins of the past. A great deal of development must be carried out there, and so much must lie on Australia's conscience to make up for what it has done. Much more aid must be appropriated to that country. I believe that we may be able to do this in the not too distant future because of the extra income that will accrue to the Government of Papua New Guinea from the Bougainville project. 
These are part of the calculations which would be made when we in Australia decide on some formula in relation to what amount we will appropriate to Papua New Guinea over the long term. We can make it flexible. We need not be too inflexible about this. Perhaps the formula should be such a one that we will make up what is required in order to maintain a 10 ner cent increase in the gross national income cf Papua New Guinea. I do not pretend to have all the arguments before me on this subject. Others may favour a more closed commitment. Perhaps we could appropriate $X and allow for an increase of perhaps 10 per cent to take account of the decline in the value of money, so that  Mr Michael  Somare, the Chief Minister, and his Government in Papua New Guinea will know what they can expect from this country and plan accordingly, using this Office of Programming and Co-ordination. 
The next point I wish to raise relates to the influence of Japan on Papua New Guinea in forthcoming years. I believe that as members of this Australian Parliament we have been a little too sensitive in talking about this matter. When I was in Papua New Guinea in June the Papua New Guinea 'Post-Courier' carried the headline. 'We look to Japan . . . says Somare'. The article which followed read: 
Papua New Guinea's first Chief Minister,  Mr Somare,  sees this country's future linked with Japan and Asia. 
And in doing so he has played down Australia's role as trading partner, . aid provider and supplier of expatriate experts. 
Later the article continued quoting  Mr Michael  Somare: 
We in Papua New Guinea are dominated in both trade and aid by Australia', he said. 'The big question is how much will this change when Papua New Guinea becomes independent and can work out its own foreign policies' 
I would like to continue to read from this main news item of Monday, 19th June, but I have not the time on this occasion. The point I want to make is that as a member of this Parliament in Papua New Guinea at that time, I was asked by many people including indigenous politicians how I viewed this sort of speech by  Mr Michael  Somare. I had to say that I was not at all resentful as long as I could be confident that  Mr Michael  Somare and, indeed, anybody else who talked in these terms realised that Japan or any other country which built up a relationship with Papua New Guinea was obliged, in my view, to give the same sort of aid as this country has been giving by direct grant without any ties attached to it at all. 
It is no good thinking that we in this country are going to be pleased by the fact that our grants are building roads and that we are responsible for so much development if some other nation will come in and not do its share in providing aid for this developing country. I repeat that I do not feel at all resentful about Japan's taking an increasing interest in Papua New Guinea. The more countries that do so, the better. The more people who trade with Papua New Guinea and take its products, the better. But let us hope that if Japan or any other developed nation of Asia does involve itself as Australia has involved itself in that part of the world it will grant aid in the way that we have done. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Was a Convention on the Establishment of an International Fund for Compensation for Oil Pollution Damage drawn up at a conference held in Brussels from 29th November to 18th December 1971. 
If so, was the Convention opened for signature on 18th December 1971. 
Is the Convention not yet in force. 
Has Australia signed the Convention; if not, why not. 
If the position is as stated, what are the reasons for the Convention not yet being in force. 
I wish to ask a question of the Prime Minister. What are the exact terms of the Si 5m special loan made by the right honourable gentleman, in the absence of the Treasurer, to the State Government of New South Wales to assist that State with its budgetary difficulties? Is it agreed that each of the 6 States is suffering enormous budgetary difficulties? Will the Government make a pro rata loan of, say, $4.5m to my own State of South Australia on the same terms and, indeed, make similar loans to the other States to help them to alleviate, in particular, their bad unemployment situations, which have been caused by the Commonwealth Government's policies? If not, why not and why is there this discrimination? 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of the Interior I want first of all to draw the attention of the Committee to the proposed expenditure for the Northern Territory. I support the remarks made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  which refute any claim there may be anywhere that the Australian Labor Party was suggesting that there could be immediate self-government for the Northern Territory. I know that by way of explanation, after the conclusion of the speech of the honourable member for Dawson, the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  said that he had not been referring to Australian Labor Party policy generally but to views apparently, as he sees them, of elected Labor Party members in the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory. Let me name them. There is  Mr Dick  Ward, M.L.C.,  Mr Bell,  M.L.C., and  Mr Eric  Marks, M.L.C. I know them well. 
As the honourable member for the Northern Territory would know, we do not have in this House a Labor Party member representing the Northern Territory. He is the one elected member for the Northern Territory in this chamber and he is a member of the Australian Country Party. Consequently, as Adelaide is a good place from which to visit the Northern Territory 1 have visited the Territory quite often. 
I remember also very clearly the occasion on which a delegation from the Legislative Council came to this Parliament in order to negotiate with the Minister for the interior in relation to future constitutional development in that Territory. I have before me a cutting from the Northern Territory News' which contains an article written by Kim Lockwood in Darwin. The article is headed: 'N.T. seeking more powers'. This article shows clearly that the delegation generally was setting out, I presume for negotiating reasons, on an extreme course. The demands made were, among other things, for a fully elected Legislative Council; ministerial responsibility and control over the executive and budgetary functions of government; an end to the Federal Government's veto powers over Northern Territory legislation; Senate representation for the Territory; and a vote for Territorians in Commonwealth referendums. That apparently was the case put forward by all of the members of the Legislative Council who came here. 1 remember that  Dr Goff  Letts was one of the members of that delegation. 
Admittedly I am only quoting from a newspaper article in relation to these matters, and I will admit that these demands were merely to put the delegation in a negotiating position. Every honourable member in this place who has done any negotiating will know that if one hopes to achieve anything one does not start off with the position which one hopes to achieve; one starts off with an extreme position. As far as I can see and as far as I can remember, at the meeting that  Mr Dick  Ward, who was the Labor Party member of that delegation, had with a group of interested members of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party in this Parliament House at that time, ki no way was he advocating immediate self government for the Northern Territory. I know that this would be an extremely unpopular move in many quarters in the Territory. 
One of the people who has been most vocal, and with good reason, has been the  President  of the Public Service Association in the Territory. It would seem to me that whatever was decided, the people of the Northern Territory should be given an opportunity to voice their opinions because, for instance, many public servants in the Northern Territory who are seconded there from Canberra would feel that if such changes were made as those that were suggested by the honourable member for the Northern Territory they would be bound to stay in the Territory; they would become public servants of the Northern Territory, and indeed it is not their idea to stay in the Northern Territory for that space of time. 
What we are advocating is similar development to that which has taken place in Papua New Guinea - organised transfer of powers. What we are suggesting is that the next Legislative Council elections, which are due in 1974, should be the time at which the next stage of this orderly transfer takes place. After all the last changes took place in 1968, which is some years ago. With the development in Darwin, Gove and other parts of the Territory, 1974 will not be too soon for the next stage of this orderly transfer to take place. 
A matter which is much closer to my heart than even that constitutional change is the matter of greater autonomy within the Public Service in the Northern Territory to allow more decision making to take place in the Territory. When I talk about the Territory I do not want to suggest that the people of Alice Springs will be happy with a situation in which all the decision making takes place in Darwin. When we cut the Gordian knot which exists at the moment between the public servants in Canberra who are interested in Territorian affairs and the Territory itself, we must make sure that decisions relating to Alice Springs are made to the greatest possible extent in Alice Springs. Where there is a will there is a way. The changes were made very satisfactorily in Papua New Guinea after the visit to that part of the world by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  when he was Prime Minister. One of the great problems in Papua New Guinea before he went there was that so much decision making was being done here in Canberra, A great deal of this decision making could have been done in Papua New Guinea - in Port Moresby. The right honourable member for Higgins cut that Gordian knot. I suggest that he did so because of the stimulus created by a visit by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  a few months earlier, but it was done and I give him credit for doing so.. There is no reason why similar steps should not be taken in relation to the Northern Territory, and when they are taken let us hope we give the people of Alice Springs some autonomy in their decision making. 
Another matter concerned with the estimates for the Department of the Interior that I would like to raise relates to transport costs in the Northern Territory. I am disappointed that in looking through the estimates I can see no appropriation for a thorough inquiry into the transport problems of the Northern Territory. My colleagues in the Australian Labor Party and I look upon transport costs as one of the tremendous difficulties that have to be sustained by the people who live in that part of Australia. There must be greater rationalisation between transport by sea, transport by rail, transport by road and transport by air to the Territory. At the present time there is tremendous wastage. We find goods going to the Northern Territory by, say, rail and road but, as we know, there is no railway line between Alice Springs and Larrimah as yet. Goods are being sent to the Territory by, those means and trucks are coming back empty. But there are other forms of transport. We find that in the case of road transport which is used to carry goods from the Territory to other parts of Australia, the lorries return empty. This is one case in which a little planning would make a tremendous amount of difference and, indeed, transport costs could be saved. We are living in the age of the computer. In this age we should be able to find answers to this problem of the tremendous freight costs in that part of Australia. I know that the Government has put some money aside in this present Budget to update the railway line between Port Augusta and Alice Springs, but at the moment there are no plans for further railway development. At this stage we do not know whether this development ought to be carried out because an inquiry to determine this, which in my view is necessary, has not taken place. 
One further matter that I would like to raise is in relation to education in the Territory. At the moment education facilities in the Territory are divided. Education on the settlements and missions is in '.he hands of a section of the Department of the Interior. Education of the children in the main centres is the responsibility of the Department of Education and Science. I believe that most responsible people interested in education in the Territory recognise that today it would be far better organised if it were to be placed in the hands of the Department of Education and Science. 1 hope that attention is being given to this matter. If the present Government survives the forthcoming election 1 hope that we might have the announcement in this regard. I can promise that a great deal of attention will be given to this matter by honourable members on this side of the Parliament when a Federal Labor government comes into power later this year, as we confidently expect that it will 
In debating the States Grants (Special Assistance) Bill it is interesting to remind ourselves once again of just how South Australia  comes to be  a claimant State. If I remember correctly in June 1970 the South Australian Premier,  Mr Don  Dunstan, suggested to the then Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  that South Australia deserved an extra $2.5m at least under the special financial assistance grants being made at that time. To use the most polite language possible,  Mr Dunstan  was told that it was not on and that perhaps he should go to the Commonwealth Grants Commission again. He did. This Bill that we have before us tonight shows how fortunate it was for South Australia and indeed how unfortunate and unwise it was for the Commonwealth Government at that time that this happened. 
We have now before us the final result of the examination by the Commonwealth Grants Commission of the position of South Australia in 1970-71 which shows that the total amount owing to South Australia is S12.5m. By that lack of judgment on the part of the then Prime Minister, South Australia is to receive in respect of the financial year 1970-71 another $10m. 
We on this side of the House welcome the decision of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. In the short time that I will be speaking on this Bill - this results from an agreement between both sides of the House - I will come back in a moment to the reason why we welcome that decision. At this stage I wish to draw attention to a question that I asked of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 11th October 1972. That question is most relevant to this debate. As reported at page 2377 of Hansard, I asked the Prime Minister: 
What are the exact terms of the SI 5m special loan made by the right honourable gentleman, in  the absence of the Treasurer, to the State Government of New South Wales to assist that State with its budgetary difficulties? Is it agreed that each of the 6 States is suffering enormous budgetary difficulties? Will  tht  Government make a pro rata loan of, say, $4.5m to my own State of South Australia on the same terms and, indeed, make similar loans to the other States to help them to alleviate, in particular, their bad unemployment situations, which have been caused by the Commonwealth Government's policies? If not, why not and why is there this discrimination? 
That was discrimination in favour of New South Wales. The Prime Minister answered in this way: 
The loan was granted on exactly the same terms as that granted to the State of Victoria 2 or 3 years ago and that granted to New South Wales last year. 
I might agree that the loan was granted on the same terms as that granted to Victoria; but, if that is so, why what those terms are cannot be revealed in this House I do not know. I am uncertain about the loan granted to New South Wales last year. The details are not retained in my memory and I doubt whether the information which has been given is factual. The Prime Minister continued: 
The honourable gentleman- 
That is me -  should recognise that his State applies to the Commonwealth Grants Commission which recommends very large grants. These are immediately agreed to by the Commonwealth Government. 
If I might say so, that is totally irrelevant because, if there is one characteristic of these Commonwealth Grants Commission recommendations which are the subject of this States Grants (Special Assistance) Bill, it is that the grants are worked out on very scientific grounds. They are, to use the words of the Minister in his second reading speech, independently and expertly assessed by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. They are assessed, as we have heard from other speakers in this debate and as we all should know, on the basis of the 2 largest and most populous States - New South Wales and Victoria - being looked upon as the standard States. The factors applying to the claimant States, and I refer to 2 of them - their lower capacity to raise revenue from their own resources because of their lower population in relation to the amount of space they have to service, and the higher cost of providing government services of a standard similar to those in the financially stronger States, that is, the standard States of New South 
Wales and Victoria - form the basis of the scientifically determined grants which are the subject of the Bill before us tonight. 
To then say that a SI 5m loan, such as the one on which I questioned the Prime Minister - it was nothing more than a political gimmick hurriedly announced to this House in the afternoon that the Premier and Treasurer of New South Wales was to bring down his Liberal Government's Budget - is in the same category as these grants is little short of misleading this House. I still suggest that, if New South Wales deserved a $15m loan, my State on a per capita or any pro rata basis would be entitled to a $4.5m loan. I would think that the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Peacock),  who is at the table, ought to work out the pro rata amount for his State of Victoria because he should be fighting within the Ministry for Victoria to receive similar help. He has more chance of succeeding than I have because he is a Liberal Minister and his is a Liberal State. I give notice that I will be making much more of this matter in the coming weeks. This is discrimination which I do not believe a Labor government would practise, because we on this side of the House believe in the scientifically and independently assessed way of distributing finance. 
I move on from there and draw attention to one other matter, that is, the assessment of the amount of $21m going to South Australia. As we have heard from other speakers in this debate, these amounts are made up of an advance amount for the year 1972-73 and what is known as a completion amount which refers to 2 years ago. In this case $7. 5m is going to South Australia for the year 1970-71 and SI 3.5m is going to our State for the year 1972-73. The point I want to make is that the $7.5m completion amount for 1970-71 is not the total amount which has been calculated by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. Under its formula the Commission could have recommended  a  notional completion grant of $8.72m instead of the $7.5m that it did recommend. The reason for this is given in paragraph 1.11 of the Commission's report, which states:   the recommended amount of the completion grant is subject to the limitation that it shall not exceed (save in exceptional circumstances) the amount which would result in the  claimant State having a modified balanced budget result for the year of review. In the case of South Australia for 1970-71 this limitation would restrict the State's completion grant to $3,031,000, the modified budget result. . . . However, the Commission has decided that exceptional circumstances do obtain in regard to South Australia's financial position at 30 June 1971 and a completion grant of $7,300,000 is recommended for payment to the State 1970-71. 
I shall repeat that: Because South Australia had a deficit in 1970-71 of a little over $3m, except in exceptional circumstances that is all that may have been allocated to South Australia, whereas under all the other clauses South Australia would have received well over $8. 5m. In fact, special circumstances did apply but the amount 

<graphic href="081131197210173_102_5.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. I conclude on this note: Although we are talking about $21m being given to South Australia this year in those 2 amounts - an advance amount of $13.5m for 1972-73 and a completion amount of $7. 5m for 1970-71 - this certainly does not over-come budgetary difficulties in the State of South Australia any more that it has overcome was reduced from $8.72m to $7.5m. So South Australia, because it did not have as large a deficit and because it applied good budgeting in that year, lost out on $ 1.22m. I believe that the formula by which these amounts are calculated should be reviewed. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard page 14 of the Commonwealth Grants Commission's report which shows the calculation of the completion grant for South Australia for 1970-71. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="081131197210173_102_5.jpg"></graphic>

budgetary difficulties in any other State. 1 take great delight in quoting as often as possible the words of the late Premier of South Australia,  Mr Frank  Walsh, who said: 
If Education and Hospitals were Commonwealth responsibilities and Civil Aviation and Post Offices were States responsibilities, I wonder would we have the same distribution of resources amongst these functions as we do now. 

<graphic href="081131197210173_102_5.jpg"></graphic>

Of course the answer to that is no. We have a certain amount of poverty in the States, in the areas in which the States have responsibilities. We have a long way to go before we can clean up this mess in Commonwealth-State financial relationships. But we in my State are thankful for small mercies and that we will receive $21m under this Bill. 
I enter this debate on the estimates for the 
Department of Social Services and the Department of Repatriation to talk about social services. I endorse every word that has been said by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  gave me the impression of being a man who is whistling in the dark. Not only is he on a losing wicket and being betrayed by bis colleagues over the second Sydney Airport site but he is also being misled in regard to fringe benefits for the wives of totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners. It is all very well for him to make speeches such as we have just heard in this House but we would like him to put his actions where his mouth is and vote with this side of the Parliament for the provision of extra social service benefits. 
In the short time available to me I want to talk mainly about unemployment relief and the shockingly inadequate benefits that are paid to the thousands of unemployed in this country. This matter comes within the scope of this debate because it is the Department of Social Services which is charged with the task of looking after the National Welfare Fund from which these benefits come. And it is all very well for the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to take some heart at the slight drop in unemployment, which we were all glad to see. We must take into consideration the absolute numbers of unemployed in comparison with the equivalent number in the months and years gone by. At the moment we have a figure of 88,877 unemployed persons in this country. This is the number of registered unemployed. Because I believe there are many of us who do not remind ourselves of the inadequate benefit that these people are receiving I want to read to the House just what those benefits are and remind the House that they have not changed recently. There is no provision in this Budget for these people, and it is a crying shame. In fact, it is a scandal that this is so. 
The adult unemployment benefit rate is $17 a week. The junior rate is $7.50 a week for 16 and 17-year-olds. Unfortunately, there will be thousands of lads and girls in this age group who will be going on to this rate of benefit very shortly because soon the school-leavers will add to the numbers of unemployed in the months of November, December, January and thenceforward. The junior rate for persons aged 18, 19 and 20 is $11 a week. The allowance for a dependent spouse is $8 a week and for each child under 16 it is $4.50 a week. Thus, taking the example of a family of 5 members with the married man getting $17 a week, the dependent spouse $8 a week, and 3 children under 16 getting $13.50 a week, the total income of that family in this day and age would be $38.50 a week. That weekly income has to keep that family in food and clothing and provide all of those other things which each one of us who has a wife and family to keep has to provide. 
The means test applying to this benefit is such that if some part-time employment is available, for every $1 more than $6 a week earned by this breadwinner this miserly amount of $38.50 is reduced by $1 a week. So the most that this breadwinner can earn is an extra $6 a week. The most that a man with a dependent spouse and 3 children under 16 years of age can bring into his household would be $44.50 a week. I ask all honourable members to pause and think of the sort of standard of living that this would bring into a household. This situation has existed for thousands of people in our community not for a few weeks but for many months. This shocking unemployment situation was created by this Federal Government because of its budgetary provisions in August 1971 which were aimed, the Government said, at trying to cure inflation. It said that the only way of doing this was by lowering the level of economic activity in our community. This is the sort of misery that has been brought on the community as a result.  1  want to draw to the attention of the Minister one further anomaly. I point out through you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that it is not just the absolute amount of the benefit that is so sad about this case. The fact is that if a child of one of these unfortunate families in these circumstances turns 16, and if the child has ability and his family and the community generally want that child to stay at school and perhaps go forward to university, the allowance payable for that child ceases immedi ately. There are many cases that I know of where a promising student who is the son or daughter of an unemployed person has had to be withdrawn from school and his whole career is thus jeopardised. 1 wish I had time to dwell further on this sad situation of unemployment in our community but I want to pay tribute to the Brotherhood of St Laurence for the documents that they have drawn to our attention and for the very heartrending way they have written on this subject. The Minister may not take much notice of my remarks in the House at this time. Perhaps it is too late for him to bring in a supplementary budget before the election to alleviate this sad situation but I trust that if he is returned to office - I do not believe that he will be - something will be done in the new year. I ask him to take into consideration the published material of the Brotherhood of St Laurence and so many other organisations in our community which know so well the misery that results from these miserly payments to the unemployed. 
They know this so well because they, together with the Society of St Vincent de Paul, the Methodist missions, and also the Church of England welfare associations, are the organisations to which these people must go. They are the organisations to which individual members of Parliament representing a city community, such as myself, turn in relation to so many of these unemployed and other people who are beset by poverty in our community. We are the ones who have to look after these people. We are the ones to whom they come. Where can we turn? We know what benefits they can receive from the Government, but where do we turn from then onwards, apart from dipping into our own pockets? The only other opportunity is for them to go to the St Vincent de Paul Society or to Methodist missions for some help. There have been improvements in this Budget in so many other areas of social services but this area stands out as one requiring attention. I particularly mention the children in the age group from 16 to 21 years who are helped in the taxation field, who are helped in so many other areas, but who are neglected in this area. 
I want to mention briefly other matters which came to my attention when the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster),  the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun),  the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  and I were guests of the Aged and Invalid Pensioners Association of South Australia a couple of weeks ago. We were all members of the Labor Party, but the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  the only Liberal city member in South Australia was also invited on this occasion. He indicated that he would be present but something that we do not know about intruded and he did not turn up on this occasion. I am glad to see the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  is here to listen to this debate tonight. The matters which were drawn to our attention included the $50 telephone installation fee which every pensioner must pay. There is no alleviation when a new telephone is installed in a household. It seems to me to be wrong that this is so because after the pensioner who installed the telephone moves on from the particular household some other person will be taking over the telephone. Perhaps the Minister should get together with the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  to see whether some better system can be worked out so that there is some alleviation in respect of this crippling fee. 
I turn now to the matter of funeral benefit. I am afraid that in the short time since I was informed that I would be speaking in this debate I have not had time to research just how long ago the present level of funeral benefit was established. I believe it was many years ago. Because of the decline in the value of money, because of the inflation that has beset us, the benefit has wilted away almost to nothing. The funeral benefit must be increased. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
As the honourable member for Kingston said, it is deathbed repentance. There is little wonder at it in this case. This is another case of the policy of the Australian Labor Party being adopted. How could I do anything but welcome the statement when this is the case? The Platform of the Australian Labor Party on northern development states: 
Decentralisation of those functions of Commonwealth Government Departments and instrumentalities relevant to the administration and development of Northern Australia. 
That is one of the clauses. There is another clause which has not yet been adopted, but I shall read it to the House so that we will know which way we will be heading under a Labor government: 
The Northern Territory to have a fully elected Legislative Assembly and the question of referred powers to be one for negotiation. 
With these extra responsibilities, perhaps we will change the name 'Council' to Assembly', even if, God forbid, the present Liberal-Country Party Government stays in power. But the point in that clause is 'the question of referred powers to be one for negotiation'. This is another reason why I welcome the statement of the Minister for the Interior. That is precisely what is happening. There has been an offer and now there will be negotiations. Another part of our Party's policy is the establishment of local government in the Northern Territory wherever practicable. That also has been advanced to a limited extent. There are still other areas - I think I am right in saying - such as Katherine, where no doubt this now is being considered. 
However, I rose to my feet mainly to say how the Australian Labor Party campaign to win the seat of the Northern Territory, our candidate being  Mr Ted  Robertson, will take great heart from the news which has been announced in the House today. It will take great heart if only for the reason that we realise that this 11th hour repentance, or should I say this last 23 hours of the Parliament repentance, on the part of the Government shows the seat to be vulnerable. Who would wonder that it is vulnerable, having heard the speech just delivered by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)?  First of all, he questioned the claim of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  that members of the Northern Territory Legislative Council would welcome some further powers in relation to Crown lands and mining. The main attitude of the honourable member for the Northern Territory in regard to this matter was: 'Who is this honourable member for Dawson in claiming that they would want it in the Territory?' So little does he know about what is happening in the Legislative Council in Darwin and the aspirations of the people of the Northern Territory, as expressed by the councillors of the Northern Territory Legislative Council, that he does not realise that this was part of the request made by the Northern Territory Legislative Council in the document dated 1970 - 2 years ago to which he himself referred. I go further and point out that we on this side of the House are suggesting not that all of the powers in relation to Crown lands and mining should be handed over but, as the honourable member for Dawson said, that only some aspects of those powers should be handed over. 
But there are matters apart from Crown lands and mining which should have formed part of this statement. I know that I am repeating what has been said already by the honourable member for Dawson, but it would have been nice to have heard from the Minister for the Interior a timetable in relation to senators from the Northern Territory. Let us face it; the people of the Northern Territory are the most underrepresented people in this Parliament. 
Perhaps I will not repeat what was said by the honourable member for Kingston. I will leave the House to judge whether I agree with him or not. The fact is that, because of their distance from this Parliament, the fact that they have no State parliament and the fact that local government is weak, it is very difficult for their voice to be heard in this Parliament. It is very necessary that they have extra representation in this Parliament. I believe that after the next Federal election there will be an improvement in the voice that they have here, but still that voice will need to be supplemented by senators and some extra numbers in this House. We on this side of the House have not had time to research these proposals to any great extent. 1 raise one other matter that I rind disappointing in what I have read to date, namely, that there is not provision in these proposals for more autonomous decision making in the Territory in relation to those functions which will remain with the Commonwealth Government. By this I mean that I would hope that there would be a cutting of the Gordian knot bet .seen Canberra and the Northern Territory in relation to a lot of the minor decisions that are made even in relation to Aborigines. There is far too much referring of matters to Canberra for decision making. 1 put in a plea for Alice Springs in particular. Any matters relating to Alice Springs on which a decision is required have to be referred first of all to Darwin, then to Canberra, then from Canberra back to Darwin and then back to Alice Springs. Even if there were no proposals in relation to legislative decision making, the Minister for the Interior acting in an administrative capacity could give more autonomy to those public servants in Alice Springs and Darwin. I hope I am making clear that it is not only decision making in the Territory that is important. Decisions that relate to Alice Springs should as far as possible be made in Alice Springs. The present system of 3 tiers is worse than the 2- tiers system - Darwin and Canberra. 
I will not repeat but I do endorse what has been said by the honourable member for Dawson. I will not take my full time because I know that the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory, who of course has a great deal of interest in these proposals as well, because he hopes that there will be developments in the Australian Capital Territory along with developments in the Northern Territory, wishes to have some time in which to express his thoughts. I said in a debate on the Estimates not so long ago that I hoped something like this would come forward. I believe that it is for political purposes that it has come forward at this time. I believe it is being done to save the neck of the present Country Party member for the Northern Territory, but if it is to benefit the people of the Northern Territory, of course it will be worth while. 
As ViceChairman and Acting Chairman I present the 141st and 142nd reports of the Public Accounts Committee. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement about these reports. 
The Westminster type of government which we follow in this country has a number of disadvantages. One of them is that we line up against each other in this House and make many personal attacks. But it also has some pleasant traditions and it falls to me today to follow some of them. I follow in this debate the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  who has just made his maiden speech. I sincerely congratulate him on it. I might add that he was rather more controversial in what he had to say than is normal in a maiden speech but I agreed, if not with a lot of what he said, at least with his congratulations of his predecessor for what he had achieved in this House. The honourable member did not mention that his predecessor is his father. We all remember his father with a great deal of affection. The honourable member has left the chamber but I hope he is listening when I say that I believe he made a controversial and forceful speech. I wish also to congratulate the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Ashley-Brown).  I thought his speech was very apt, coming from where he does, as he spoke on the subject of local government. I listened with a great deal of interest. 
I will not comment on that on this occasion. While I am offering congratulations in this beneficent mood I want to congratulate the mover and the seconder of the motion for the AddressinReply to the Governor-General's Speech. I refer to the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  and the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan).  I congratulate them on the splendid speeches they made yesterday. Most of all, as the honourable member who used to sit directly in front of you in the last Parliament,  Mr Speaker,  I want to say that I will miss your interjections, even the sotto voce remarks which perhaps not many honourable members heard. I congratulate you,  Sir, on  your election to your high office. 
I have not told you privately that on Boxing Day last, of all days, an article appeared about you in the 'Advertiser' in my home town of Adelaide. It had many wonderful things to say about you and referred to your famous interjection when  Sir Robert  Menzies as Prime Minister was replying to attacks on him as 'Pig Iron Bob' and so on. He was telling honourable, members how much he was revered by working men. He explained that on the previous day when his car had drawn up at traffic lights a working man had driven up in his car alongside. He had wound down the car window and had said to  Sir Robert:  'Good on you, Bob.' Your interjection,  Mr Speaker,  was: 'He should' have been had up for drunken driving'. That was one of the best interjections ever and deserves to be recorded again. In the same newspaper appeared another most interesting article under the heading 'The new name is Cope.' I read it with great interest and discovered that it referred to a new body formed under the auspices of the Marriage Guidance Council. Its name is the Centre of Personal Encounter. You,  Mr Speaker,  occupy a centre of personal encounter and I suggest that you ought to look favourably on this excellent cause. 
Having dealt with all the pleasantries I turn now to the substance of. the GovernorGeneral's Speech and to deal particularly with economic planning. I will have failed during my few years in this House if, my. colleagues on both sides- at least those who were members of the last Parliament-r-do not know of my commitment to long term economic planning. Consistently in Budget debates, debates on urgency motions and economic affairs and on many other occasions I have .expounded on the poor rate of growth per head of population in this country and on the. higher than necessary rate .of inflation. I believe that the only way to attack the root .cause of these ills is by long term economic planning. The only way that any government, particularly this Government which  I support : so enthusiastically, will be able to carry out its great social policies, its attack on poverty and improvements to the standard of living for people not only in the cities but right across the countryside, is to guide the allocation of resources in our community in a more enlightened way, seeking the ultimate achievement by the optimum allocation of resources to a far greater extent than any conservative predecessor of our Government has achieved hitherto. 
I am delighted to see in the GovernorGeneral's Speech a reference to a programme to institute long term planning, which promises so much from this Government. The needs are as great as ever. The first report on 
Australia by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development since we joined that very important body was published only a few weeks ago. It showed clearly how badly we have been dragging our feet when the effects of the increase in population are removed and we look at the figures of economic growth in our country per head of population. The average figure in the period 1965-70 was only 2.6 per cent. It is well below the OECD average for the other 23 countries in that body and only just above the slowest growing rate. In spite of a high rate of savings and investment, because of the poor allocation of resources savings and investment m Australia yield a return per head of population of only one-third of the yield in Japan. I have mentioned Japan advisedly because it has not been considered a socialist country but has a well developed tradition of Government intervention in its private sector business as well as its public sector business, but, more importantly I have mentioned Japan because it now has a very well developed system of economic planning. As I have said before in this House, this planning, worked out in co-operation between the public sector and the private sector, is now so successful that whereas 12 to 15 years ago only about 10 per cent of the Japanese businessmen were taking any notice of the long term plans of their country now 85 to 90 per cent are doing so. In my view it is essential that we institute such planning in Australia rather than rely on short term measures as our predecessors have done. They have ricocheted from one ad hoc method to another to control our economy. 1 repeat that the whole essence of proper economic planning is controlling the use of resources. If we are to do anything about these business cycles from which we suffer we must bring an end to the stop-go policies. We have to institute long term planning as has been done in Japan, to mention only one country. It is not easy, particularly in a Federation such as ours where we have State governments to consider as well, and it is particularly difficult in the initial stages. Initial forecasts are bound to be wrong and will have to be altered. All budgets will have to be altered m the light of circumstances. The first bold move must be to build up the Resources Branch of the General Financial and Economic Policy Division of the Treasury. 1 will not enter into discussion at this stage about whether the long term plans for the building up of that branch should be that it remain in the Treasury or be moved elsewhere. Part and parcel of the building up of the Resources Branch should be the publishing of long term forecasts. The whole of the annual Budget must be built on some forecasts. The publishing of these forecasts will itself help to ensure that the forecasts which are made will come to be correct, because the private sector will use the forecasts when making its decisions. Maybe we will not have such a strain on our resources in the future as we have had in the past as, for instance, when $500m was invested in a bauxite industry by the Nabalco company at Gove in the Northern Territory and, at the same time, another $500m was invested by another company at Weipa and Gladstone. What causes inflation is too much money chasing scarce resources. Only long term planning will tackle the root cause of this problem. 
The Governor-General's Speech pleases me because a start is being made on such long term planning. There are a number of places in the Governor-General's Speech where this is seen to be so. Firstly we have the Government's intention to develop a positive programme of policy measures as was mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech:   . . to  promote  more  vigorous growth  of  efficient, competitive Australian manufacturing industry. A  basic  objective  will be  to  reduce uncertainty and to create a sense of  national purpose within  which  investment  and  in  turn  employment decisions in industry  can be made  confidently. The Government intends to establish a prices justification tribunal. I could spend much more time debating that plan alone. The Government also proposes to establish a protection commission to advise on assistance for both primary and secondary industries. Legislation will be introduced to expand the activities of the Australian Industry Development Corporation and to equip it for the task of assisting the Government in its objective of achieving sound industrial and resources development with maximum Australia ownership and control. I break here to mention something that was said by the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  namely, that this Government was neglecting the primary industries in doing that. There is positive proof in the Governor-General's Speech that this is not so and that, indeed, primary industries will be looked after in this whole scheme of adding to the growth of this country. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

 - Mr Speaker, I thank the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for realising the quality of my speech and providing me with such an audience. As the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has said, it is the only good thing he has done this year. There is one good thing about being interrupted half way through a speech by the suspension of the sitting for dinner and that is that one thinks of some of the things that one meant to say and forgot to say earlier. I want to congratulate not only you,  Mr Speaker,  but also the  Chairman  of Committees. We have seen how good our choice was in electing you, sir, and today we saw how excellent was our choice of  Chairman  of Committees, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  who underwent his baptism of fire. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner I had traversed the traditional pleasantries and pointed out that the theme of my speech was the need for economic planning of a long term nature in order to build up our national cake so that we can get on with that job to which all of us in the Labor Party are so committed, namely, allocating fairer shares and making sure that there is a more just society. I mentioned that a start had been made on this job, as exposed by the promises in the Governor-General's Speech. I spoke about the Government's intention to develop a positive programme of policy measures to promote more vigorous growth and an efficient, competitive Australian manufacturing industry. I spoke about the primary industries and also referred to the intention to establish prices justification machinery. 
I want to proceed,  Mr Speaker,  and also draw attention . to what was  said  . in the Governor-General's Speech about the promised establishment- of a protection commission to advise on assistance for both, primary and secondary industry. Legislation also will be introduced to expand the activities of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. There are many other areas to which I could point to show that this start is being made on long term economic planning. These, as I mentioned, are only some of the things needed because it is my conviction that we still have more to do to build' up the strutures, to co-ordinate all these activities in a more highly developed department of economic planning. I know that the Government will go even further than those areas mentioned in the Governor-General's speech. 
I would hardly be a worthwhile member for the electorate of Adelaide in my State of South Australia if I did not relate this conviction of mine for economic planning to the needs of my own electorate and my own State. On Saturday week there is to be a State election in South Australia. It is vitally important that we retain our efficient State Labor Government in order that . we might have complete co-operation in economic planning and in providing fairer shares. Cooperative federalism is a term first coined, I believe, by our State leader in South Australia,  Mr Don  Dunstan. Another phrase that sums up some of the attitudes of this Government - I think it was used in the GovernorGeneral's Speech- is co-operation rather than confrontation. I believe that it is only if we have a Labor government in South Australia that we will have this co-operative federalism, this co-operation between the Commonwealth and the State, just as we in this new Federal Labor Government seek co-operation between management and the workers and between the private sector and the public sector generally. 
In my State we have suffered from a lack of economic planning. So many of our resources are tied up in consumer durables, such as washing machines, television sets and the great motor car industry. This is one area which is first hit when there is the slightest slump in our economy. I am committed to economic planning because I do not want slumps. I am committed to economic planning because I want what the State Labor Government in South Australia is giving to our State - a wider distribution of industries in our State without having all our eggs in one basket. In fact, our State Labor Government has been making a valiant effort to diversify. We heard the splendid announcement of the very real possibility of a new $300m petro-chemicals industry being setup in the iron triangle in the electorate of my colleague, the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis),  at Redcliffs south of Port Augusta. But Premier Dunstan would be the first to recognise that this industrial development will best be achieved if there is coordination between the State Labor Government and our Federal Labor Government here in Canberra. Instead we have suffered from policies of the Liberal-Country Party which were anything but planning. 
In the last couple of minutes available to me I want to draw attention to the great tragedy being suffered by the shipbuilding industry in my State. Adelaide Ship Construction is going out of production and shortly 800 men will be without a job. The blame for this can be attributed directly to the previous Government, in fact to the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  the Minister for Shipping and Transport prior to 2nd December. The Liberal-Country Party Government decided to open the shipbuilding subsidies to anybody who obtained a tender. That decision created the situation facing Adelaide Ship Construction right now. Adelaide Ship Construction put in the lowest tenders for 2 ships which at present are being built in Whyalla but did not receive the contracts. Only when we can reorganise the shipbuilding industry in this country, and apply this sort of economic planning policy to it and to so many other areas of secondary industry will we have security of employment. 
Has the Treasurer seen a report in the media recently to the effect that this new Government is not committed to taxation reform? Will he lay to rest this red herring? 
I direct my question to the Acting Treasurer. Has the concentration of economic power, in terms of ownership and share of domestic markets, increased in Australia in recent years? If so, has there been a tendency for the concentration of economic power in either of these senses to increase more rapidly in the last 5 years than in the previous 5 years? ls there any indication that the rate of increase, if any, of the concentration of economic power might increase in the near future? 
The contribution of the Opposition to this debate sadly reminds me of the 1930s. Then the great economic problem in this country was the recession - the terrible period of unemployment. There was a body of theory formulated by John Maynard Keynes, which was completely ignored by the men who were in control at that time throughout the world. For a number of years the great economic problem in our community has been stagflation*. There is a body of theory which has been ignored and which continues to be ignored by people like the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  who have spoken in this debate. The Keynes economic philosophy in the area of economic policy, which was right for the 1930s, is not right today, lt rests on the dependence of monetary and fiscal or budgetary policies to reduce aggregate demand in order to stop inflation. At least the Opposition has agreed with the Government that inflation is a problem. That philosophy seeks to activate demand on other occasions in order to pull the economy out of a recessionary phase. Monetary policy operates on the availability of credit while fiscal policy operates firstly on disposable incomes - incomes which are left in people's pockets to spend - and, secondly, on the relative role of government expenditures. 
These are the sorts of policies which have been used, as we know, by the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party. They still claim that they are the only policies which should continue to be followed. We know what sort of results they brought. They brought about an unemployment level of over 2 per cent when following these philosophies, demand was suddenly cut to an enormous extent by budgetary and monetary policies. More recently, John Kenneth Galbraith and some others have contended that monetary policy has contributed to rather than modified postwar economic policies. The modern school of thought points out that monetary policy is not selective in its impact and causes market distortions and even social inequities. I mention in this context the effect of interest rates on housing, which is a social welfare area. The monetary authorities' role is reduced to very short term financial manipulations which ensure orderly securities markets and an adequate growth of money supply. 
 In listening to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  one would think that the whole' theme of what we are doing in setting up this committee is window dressing. My thesis is that it is built on very sound economic theory. Galbraith who, as I mentioned, is the apostle of the more modern theory I referred to, argues that Budget policies are similarly non-selective - at least as they are practised by non-Labor governments - that they are capable of selection, but in the areas of resource allocation and the setting of appropriate social and welfare priorities these budgetary policies have been remiss. However, it is true that budgetary policies have more relevance to inflation control than do monetary policies. It would not be correct to say that Keynes's principles are being discarded for Galbraith's. At certain stages of the business cycle under certain conditions and in terms of community problems, the balance of payments situation and  so on,  one mixture might work better than another. The best that can be said at this stage is that Galbraith adds another tool to the kit of economic policy makers, a tool which the Opposition wants to deny us. The Opposition's own policies in the field of inflation have been completely bankrupt. Just because the Opposition did nothing while its members were in government, it now wants us to do nothing. The Opposition is not going so far as to oppose this measure but it is going so far as to sound like people at a wailing wall when it comes to talking about this measure. 
Let us have a further look at Galbraith's policy. I add that what I am saying about the theory on which this proposition is built applies to the prices justification tribunal mainly, but this proposal to have a parliamentary committee is an integral part of the operations of the Government prices justification tribunal which will be set up later. Gal.braith's first point, which he made quite clear, is close to the hearts of all of us. He said that high employment is necessary for sustained economic growth since low output and idle capacity are a disincentive to investment. That point is close to the hearts of honourable members on this side of the House but we would not know whether it is close to the hearts of Opposition members because they were responsible, by their budgetary policies and by their being happy only with outworn economic attitudes, for the growth of unemployment to the shocking stage that we had it from this time last year until near the election. Galbraith said also that no policy of prices stabilisation has any chance of permanent success if it argues that there must be deliberately manufactured and continuing unemployment. 1 repeat that the opposite attitude to the one which the Government is putting before the nation in proposals such as our prices justification tribunal, backed up by the proposal of having a parliamentary committee, is to use the blunt weapons which were used by the previous Government and which created the unemployment which we had. 
Professor Galbraith argues that in the United States and in Australia during times of high employment, prices are unstable - we have seen this - because of a defect in the economic machine, particularly in one sector. This sector is the one in which firms are very large and control by them over prices is substantial. There is opportunity for large discretionary increases in prices whenever demand is favourable. Is this not the situation in the steel industry where at the moment there is only one large producer - Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd? Galbraith said that there is, furthermore, a powerful incentive to exploit this price discretion when wages are raised, particularly when we have a monopoly situation. So long as demand is at or near full employment limits, prices and wages will react on each other in a steady upward spiral in industries characterised by strong firms and strong unions. Inflation has been characterised by increases, particularly in the prices of steel, steel products, machinery, cars, paper, rubber and so on in this country. Budgetary and monetary policies of the kind used by the previous Government as part of its bankrupt policies do not deal with these problems of inflation appropriately because their impact is too general; they attempt to reduce aggregate demand and depend on a reduction of employment levels to achieve an easing of aggregate demand. Consequently, they are quite unacceptable to honourable members on this side of the House. Although inflationary tendencies tend to find their outlet in concentrated industries, the solution does not lie in breaking up such industries, such as was the policy of the previous Government by creating unemployment, because of structural and political problems that such actions do raise. 
So the one course of action is for some form of public intervention in that part of the economy where full employment or an approach to full employment means inflationary price and wage increases. This is what we intend the prices justification tribunal to do, to intervene in those areas. We want the parliamentary select committee to act as a clearing house from the community to feed material to the prices justification tribunal. Among the principles governing this intervention is that it should be limited to the concentrated sector; the machinery for intervention should be simple and its aims should be restraint, not rigid price and wage fixation; and the effort to achieve stability should, if at all possible, be carried out in a conciliatory spirit. I have said most of this on previous occasions in debates on the Budget. It is a great delight for me - as on previous occasions when I was in opposition - to put forward this theory and to point out to the House these well developed theories of an economist of the great stature of John Kenneth Galbraith. It is a great delight to me to be in the House today talking in this debate when the Government is making its first moves to carry into effect this body of theory by setting up this parliamentary committee. 
I remind honourable members of what I said earlier. The sad fact is that in the 1930s there was a body of theory to overcome the great recession that was taking place at that time. That theory was not used. We now have a body of theory to attack stagflation. For years we have had this body of theory but we have not had the men to bring it to fruition. We now have the men to do so and it is a great delight to be speaking in this debate and supporting that theory. This theory does not presuppose that the starting point gives a fair breakdown between labour and capital of the rewards of their enterprise. The whole of the Galbraithian theory rests on a partnership between labour, industry and government in these concentrated sectors particularly promoted by government. So whereas we heard the Opposition ranting about wages being the only reason for inflation in our community- 
I invite the honourable member for Angas to go back over the speeches of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and to look in a cold, objective way, which I am sure he is sometimes capable of doing, at what they said. They have not brought to this House any alternative method of attacking what we know to be the great ill in our community economically, namely, inflation. Both of them mentioned wages as being the great cause of inflation. They were completely bankrupt of any way of attacking the problem of inflation other than to confront the unions. I repeat that the theory is there to back up our prices justification tribunal, but it is our contention that a committee of the Parliament of this kind is essential. I am glad to find that even though the Opposition is moving amendments to the proposition at least members of  the Opposition will serve on the Committee. We think it is essential as the clearing house in the community. A lot of the information which comes from the community will not necessarily go to the prices justification tribunal. In order to get greater efficiency and to stimulate productivity there are other areas where the information could go. It might go to a monopolies commission, a restrictive trade practices tribunal or the protection commission, as 1 believe the Tariff Board will shortly be called. It is Important that we should have the link of the Parliament between the people and these commissions and tribunals of the Government. 
A lot of people are talking very good sense about participatory democracy. Here is a means of bringing that about. It is not only for that reason that I support the setting up of this parliamentary committee. There is. and here I agree with the Leader of the Opposition, a great deal of ignorance in the community as to the cause of inflation. Why should this Committee not use the information coming to it through these reports to educate the community about the nature of inflation? Of course it should, and of course it will. I draw to the attention of the House that what I have had to say as being the opinion of the Opposition relates to the Leader of the Opposition and of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, from whom we have heard, but I suggest that it is a very marked omission in this debate that we have not heard from the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards),  a former university professor of economics. It is sad that we have not heard from him or from anybody in the Country Party. 
I looked at the list of speakers, and I saw that no member of the Country Party was listed to speak. I will welcome it if we hear from the Country Party. I will welcome it if the Country Party supports us in attacking prices rather than just following the leaders of the Liberal Party, who are mouthing the attitudes of the businessmen whom they represent. 
One does not need gall up polls, helpful though they are, to know how well this Government has been performing and how badly the Opposition has been performing. One has only to listen to the speeches that have been made in this debate to know why the gallup polls are telling the story that they are telling. The proposal of this matter for discussion is the most cynical, stupid, unreasonable proposal that could possibly be imagined. Let me supplement what has already been said by my colleague, the Minister for Transport  Mr Charles  Jones) by setting out the reasons why I make such a claim. Firstly, let me remind the House that this new Federal Labor Government was elected on 2nd December last, just 4 months ago last Monday, the day before yesterday. Let me further remind the House that the Ministry was elected 10 days later, on 18th December. That was the day the honourable member for Newcastle took up his position as Minister for Transport - just 106 days ago. This is important because it highlights the lack of reasonableness and credibility of this proposal of a matter for discussion, and of those who composed it and who support it now. 
We are dealing with the shipbuilding industry, an industry which requires a vast amount of planning over a long period. The pipeline between the order being placed and the keel being laid is something like 4 to 6 months long in the particular area of the shipbuilding industry in which we are interested. Any reasonable person who knows anything about the scheduling of shipbuilding, as the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  should know, and who asserts that in 106 days anyone, even Houdini himself, could have had any substantial effect whatsoever on the shipbuilding closures which are taking place, it would seem, at the present time is misleading this House or is very ignorant of this subject. Let me make this point quite clear: The troubles in the shipbuilding industry date very definitely and very clearly from the day the decision was made to widen the paying of shipbuilding subsidies beyond the 6 recognised yards that existed at that time. That decision was made by a Liberal-Country Party Government, by the very men who have raised this time-wasting matter in the Parliament today. 
Let me outline for the House my interest in this matter. That interest, needless to say, stems from the tragic situation being faced by a company operating in my own city of Adelaide, Adelaide Ship Construction, a subsidiary of the Adelaide Steamship Industries Pty Ltd. This company also is in the course, as we have heard, of being closed down in spite of great efforts on the part of the present Minister and indeed on the part of every Labor member in the House of Representatives from South Australia. 
 I will outline what we have done and I will show that the company and even the men concerned who are losing their jobs realise at this time where the guilty party is sitting. The guilty party is sitting in the seat of the honourable member for Gippsland, and the guilty parties are sitting on the rows of benches behind him and are those who supported him in government and supported him despite the lack of policies when he was the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I will outline now how I make that assertion. We have just had an interjection from another South Australian member, a Liberal member. I must say that I am not at all aware of one finger being lifted by any member of the Opposition parties from South Australia in this tragic situation that is facing Adelaide Ship Construction at the present time. This company, as I say, is in the course of being closed down. I shall outline now what we have done and the stage we have reached in trying to save this company. It is a company, incidentally, which has built ships of wonderful quality for 14 years. It is a company which has built ships of a tonnage of anything up to 12,000 tons. It is a company which employs at this time up to 800 residents of my city of Adelaide. It is a company which sub-contracts work to many other companies in my State and which we value greatly. This company in a few months time, on present indications, will no longer be operating because of the totally inadequate policies of the previous Government, the McMahon Liberal-Country Party Government. 
The sad fate which is befalling this company has, let me be honest, come somewhat as a surprise to the company as well as to a number of the rest of us. There were 2 contracts in the pipeline which we expected this company to get. One was for a 4,000-ton vessel which was ordered by the Union Steam Ship Co. of Australia and New Zealand, part of the bulk ships group. The other was for a 12,000-ton vessel ordered by the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia. In both cases the Adelaide Ship Construction tender was over $300,000 less than that of the successful tenderer. In both cases the successful tenderer was the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd of Whyalla. 
My Labor colleagues and I, with the help of the Minister, have turned every stone we know in our attempt to save this shipyard. I myself have had personal contact with  Sir Peter  Abeles, the  Chairman  of the Union Steam Ship Co.; with  Sir Edward  Cohen, the  Chairman  of the Electrolytic Zinc Co.; and with  Sir Ian  McLennan, the  Chairman  of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. I know that I have been merely covering the same ground as  Mr Don  Dunstan, the Premier of South Australia. I also know that my Labor colleagues from South Australia have made similar efforts. But the die was cast. The contracts had already been let. The Minister for Transport pointed his finger at the honourable member for Gippsland and pointed out that these contracts were let in the time when the honour able member for Gippsland was the Minister for Shipping and Transport. At every turn we were up against the fact that BHP at Whyalla could not let go one of these contracts because that company alleged that this would have meant unemployment in the shipbuilding industry at Whyalla. All we could do to save Adelaide Ship Construction was to have one of these contracts transferred from Whyalla to the Adelaide Ship Construction yards in Adelaide because, I repeat, the pipeline in shipbuilding is such - and members like the honourable member for Gippsland ought to know this - that if the present Minister could have found any other contract for this company it would have taken 4 to 6 months before the keel was laid and would have been too late to save that company. 
It comes down to this sad but incontrovertible fact: Because of the policies of the Liberal and Country Parties there are too many shipbuilding yards in Australia and there has been no planning to ensure continuity of orders. When the subsidies were widened to the extent that they were payable to any yard, there was no longer continuity of work for the existing yards. For those who like to seek comfort in blaming the unions, as did the Deputy Leader of the Australian Country Party, let me say that my experience with the unions concerned with Adelaide Ship Construction could leave these accusers of the unions absolutely clotheless. My remarks apply both to the Adelaide union secretaries concerned and to the shop stewards at the Adelaide Ship Construction yard. No-one in the unions or in management makes the claim that everything has been perfect in the Adelaide Ship Construction shipyard or indeed in other ship yards in Australia. Of course there have been demarcation disputes, as there are in all the yards. Of course the management has made wrong decisions which have exasperated the men and tested their patience. But the raw material was there - the skills of men and the other raw materials that go into building a ship - with great potential for government leadership. Until 2nd December that leadership was totally lacking. Since 2nd December it has been too late, it would seem, for Adelaide Ship Construction and for Evans Deakin Industries Ltd. The Minister has ably outlined all he has done to create orders. If only this had been done in time, perhaps this time last year, it would mean that the employment of men in these yards would now be secure. The closures of these yards are a tragedy. Those of us who know personally men who are employed in these yards are sickened by what has happened, but there is nothing we can do. What has happened has been due to the failure of the previous Government. 
I am delighted to be able to support the new 
Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  in his proposals before the House to set up a Joint Committee to inquire into and report on such matters relating to the Northern Territory as are referred to it by the Minister for the Northern Territory or by resolution of either House of the Parliament. I have read that part of the motion because nobody who listened to the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and indeed the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  could be blamed for not knowing what we were debating this evening. I congratulate the Minister and the Government not only upon this proposal but also upon a number of measures which can do nothing but improve the lives of those who are living in the Northern Territory. 
We all know - already sympathy has been expressed from both sides of this House in this debate - that tremendous disadvantages are suffered by the people who live in remote areas. Remoteness is the No. 1 disadvantage. We must confess that their representation is something from which they have suffered. In spite of what may be thought by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  who is seeking to interject, I am not reflecting on the type of- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins) Order! I ask the honourable member for Adelaide to direct his remarks to the Chair. 
Through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I say that I am not reflecting on the honourable member for the Northern Territory. I am referring to the fact that that part of Australia is a couple of thousand miles away from Canberra and that most of the decisions which are taken in relation to the Territory are made in this Parliament. Not every honourable member has the advantage which, for instance, I have had as the member representing Adelaide to visit that part of the country often and to know the sort of problems which exist there. This, of course, is the main reason why the proposed Committee is to be formed. Many more members of this House will be able to visit the Northern Territory. The Committee will have before it important issues affecting the Territory and its members will become informed so that when debates take place in this House we will have more information and education on the subjects under discussion. 
I know that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  is to follow me in this debate. The honourable member's activities as  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee in the last Parliament enabled him to make frequent visits to the Northern Territory. Other members of the Public Works Committee are in the same category. I am very pleased to say that the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  also will participate in this debate. He is another honourable member who has detailed knowledge on the Territory. But he would be one of the first, as would the honourable member for Wakefield, to understand that the more honourable members who know about the problems of the Territory the better. As I said, this is one of the many advantages in setting up this Joint Committee. 
I also have said - and I want to follow this argument through - that this is only one of a number of things that this Government has done in order to improve the lot of those who live in that part of Australia. Let me mention the fact that we do have a Ministry for Northern Development. In spite of the remarks of the honourable member for Gwydir surely he understands that when it comes to Cabinet decisions we now have not only a Minister for the Northern Territory but a Minister for Northern Development. Both are interested in that area. We do not now suffer from an inner and outer Cabinet. The previous Minister for the Interior, who had many other duties to perform in addition to looking after the Northern Territory, was not even in the inner Cabinet; he was in an outer Cabinet where he seldom had a say as we can see from the results as they have affected the lives of the people of the Territory. 
I turn now to the amendment which has been moved. If this amendment were passed the advancement of political responsibility and constitutional reform for the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory would be one of the main issues to be examined by the proposed Committee I feel that this is a very appropriate issue to be discussed; but it is not appropriate that it should go into a motion setting up the Committee. I believe that there may be difficulties about this amendment at this time. It would be unfortunate if we jeopardise the chances of this sort of development taking place in the Northern Territory by giving this issue as the (first job to this Joint Committee too prematurely. I believe that this is the wrong time to include this in a motion for the setting up of this Joint Committee. I know that the Minister will have more to say about this. I give notice that the Government will not be accepting this amendment on this occasion. I repeat that it is not an issue which must be discussed as a first issue. 
The honourable member for Gwydir has explained what attention he has already given to the matter. I know there are many members of the Legislative Council who are extremely interested in this issue and if and when it comes before the proposed Committee they will have a vehicle whereby they can express their views to a wider audience. The only vehicle they have had in the past was a deputation of a few of them to this Parliament to see one Minister. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

 - Mr Speaker (Quorum formed). I want to complete the remarks that I was making on the motion to set up a Joint Committee on the Northern Territory. At this stage I would like to say how pleasant it has been to take part in this debate in which there has been a great deal of unanimity on both sides of the Parliament in contradistinction to the shocking episodes we witnessed earlier today when members of the Opposition abused the forms of this House. Even the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  as has been his usual practice since we returned to this new Parliament, has called quorums causing members to be taken away from other important business, committee work and so on. The honourable member, of course, is feeling very disappointed that he polled so badly in the Opposition leadership contest. I notice that the honourable member is now conferring with the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  another disappointed member who also has been abusing the forms of this House in every way possible in recent weeks. I make these remarks only to distinguish between the sort of debate we had earlier today and that which took place prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner during which the problems of the Northern Territory were discussed. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I congratulated the new Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory on what he has achieved so far. It is wonderful for the people of the Northern Territory to know that they have a Minister who has to divide his time only between the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. The Minister for the Interior in the previous Government had many other duties to perform, such as dealing with services and property, police matters and many other areas. 
I thank the honourable member for Kooyong for advising me that the Minister is also administering Norfolk Island. I congratulate the Minister on the work that he has done there because I know for a fact that he has visited Norfolk Island and applied his attention to that important area as well. 
I support the motion and I have no sympathy with the amendment, which represents an attempt by the honourable member for the Northern Territory to get into the act, if I can use that common expression. This Labor Government has done much already for the Northern Territory. As I have said, it has a Minister who is dividing his time only with the Australian Capital Territory. In addition the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  is interested in that part of the world. I made the point before the suspension of the sitting that both of these Ministers and others are in the one Ministry as opposed to the performance of the previous Government where the Minister for the Interior not only had to divide his time and responsibility among so many other duties but was, of course, only in the outer Ministry. 
I will not detain the House any longer on this matter because I covered most of the points prior to the suspension of the sitting. I end on the note that I trust that all members of Parliament who serve on this Joint Committee will spend much time in the Northern Territory. I trust also that the establishment of this Committee will mean that more members of this House will be able to educate themselves in the affairs of the Northern Territory and will thereby be able to make recommendations to the Government which will result in policy decisions that will improve the lives and the standard of living of those who live in the Northern Territory. 
Has the Minister for Defence seen recent Press reports that a conflict exists between him and the Department of Defence over a desirable size for the Australian Army? If so, will the Minister say whether there is any truth in these reports? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 1 have to point out to the honourable member for Angas - I am sorry that he is ignorant on this point - that polyunsaturated meat is not a substitute for meat. All that he had to say about me is completely out of order. 
1 ask the Minister for Science whether he saw a report in the media to the effect that clinical trials indicate, that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial [Research Organisation has made an important breakthrough in producing poly-unsaturated meat and dairy foods which could play a vital part in fighting heart disease. If so, did he also note that the claim was made that conservatism on the part of Australian agricultural marketing boards has cost both Australian consumers and farmers the full benefits of the breakthrough and that, consequently, CSIRO has assigned licensing rights to an Anglo-American controlled company? What can the Minister tell us about this report? 
Is the Treasurer aware that on 16th April the Adelaide 'News' ran a story which stated, among other things, that the Treasurer would change the law so that the sale of things like houses would be regarded by the Taxation Office as income - which sales, of course, are now so regarded - if purchased for resale at a profit? Is he further aware, however, that this has been widely misinterpreted as meaning that any margin gained on the sale of the matrimonial home would be taxable? Furthermore, is he aware that South Australia's 'This Day Tonight' program ran a segment to this effect? As his statement from which this misconception was taken said no such thing, will he please put the record straight once again? 
Has the Minister for Immigration seen reports that Australia's international airline Qantas is not getting a reasonable share of assisted migrants who travel to this country? Is this in accordance with the facts? 
It is with a great deal of pleasure that I rise to support this Pipeline Authority Bill 1973. If there is one overwhelming thought I have in doing so it is that it is utterly extraordinary that the Liberal Party-Country Party Opposition is not supporting the Bill with enthusiasm, and it is utterly inexplicable that those Parties did not bring in such a Bill when they were in Government. I should like to explain further. In fact, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  a member of the Australian 
Country Party and former Minister for Shipping and Transport, gave the game away in a debate earlier today when we were discussing the length of time we would have to debate this Bill. He referred to this Bill as a piece of nationalistic legislation. I repeat the word nationalistic' because it is a correct word. I do not know what he means by it, but I know what I mean by it. Why on earth should it not be nationalistic? Every loyal Australian wants to reap the benefit of his own birthright, a word that I think I have heard used by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  who should be congratulated on this Bill. 
The natural gas of Australia is the birthright of every loyal Australian. Why on earth should it be left in the hands of some private shareholders and their management - at their whim - when the energy represented by this natural gas is so important for the future development of Australia and for the future standard of living of the people of our country? We have needed a national Government which would exercise the undoubted right of the Australian people to construct such a pipeline as will be constructed after this Bill is passed through the Parliament. Australia needs this pipeline as a common carrier of natural gas. Thank goodness we at last have a Government which will give us this national pipeline. 
I have had a good look at this Bill. I can have no sympathy whatsoever with the attitude of the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  or the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  who has just resumed his seat. The honourable member for Farrer gave us a laboured speech - thoroughly laboured. He did not even sound sincere in what he had to say. He mouthed the inevitable words of conservatives - the rather doctrinaire words. I am afraid we heard them again from the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party - words of arch-conservatives. Those words were in no way substantiated. It was suggested that the Authority, because it will be a public one, will not be as efficient as a private organisation would. This was never substantiated. Is it claimed that Trans Australia Airlines is less efficient, for instance, than the Ansett airline? The honourable member for Farrer said, and I heard the same proposition in the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, that the proposed Authority should have been established in conjunction with the States. 
What on earth does this mean. Nobody in this Government, or indeed in this Parliament, will 6et out deliberately to counter the wishes of the States. Everything that the Federal Labor Government is doing or will do will be done, where possible, in co-operation with the States. It is Labor members of Parliament, State and Federal, who have adopted the phrase co-operative federalism'. The only time when there is or will be conflict between the Commonwealth and the States is where the national interest does not conform with the particular State interests. Labor Party members believe strongly that it is the national interest which should prevail. 
I believe that the Opposition Liberal and Country parties have forgotten that we have already a statutory authority to do this type of work in one part of Australia. I am referring to the Natural Gas Pipelines Authority of South Australia, set up in 1967 with the complete and splendid support of the business community in my State. I am afraid that I have not inquired whether it had the support in the State Parliament of the then Liberal Party Opposition, but I believe it probably did, and certainly it had the enthusiastic support of the Liberal Party when it was in Government in South Australia from 1968 to 1970. 
The Natural Gas Pipelines Authority of South Australia distributes gas at one of the lowest costs in the world. It is true that this Authority will have representatives of producers and of consumers on its board, but it is my belief after studying the composition of this Authority and after talking with a number of people involved with it that it was not necessary to have such producer and consumer representation on the board. 
Whenever there are differences the Government members of the South Australian Authority virtually must make the decisions; in other words, they are calling the tune, as indeed the representatives of the people, which the Government representatives are, should call the tune. I am referring to the  Chairman, Mr Norman  Young, a well known Australian company director and not, let me say, a supporter of the Australian Labor Party, as far as I know, but appointed to that position by a Labor Party Government, and  Mr Leslie  Parkin, a former Director of Mines in South Australia and now a director of AMDEL. This is the calibre of people that the 
South Australian Labor Government has put on the South Australian Natural Gas Pipeline Authority. This is not a new concept. What it does drive home to us is how utterly ridiculous it was that the New South Wales Liberal and Country Party Government did not set up such an authority so that this common carrier of gas from Gidgealpa to the eastern seaboard of our country was in the hands of the people, which at least before we had a national government worth its salt it was not, rather than in the hands of private shareholders. 
I have respect for the views of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  Another Labor member, my colleague the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  has already said what I find myself wanting to say about his contribution to this debate. We welcome his support for the concept of this Bill. He is someone who is not as doctrinaire as the others who have entered into this debate from the other side of the House. I believe, however, that his fears are totally unfounded. He made a contribution about price, among other things. If the dire things that he thought might happen do happen it will be a tremendous boon to al] of those in Opposition. They will be able to make something of this at the hustings. They will be able to clobber the Federal Labor Government if these dire things happen and they will be able to use them in their attempt to regain the Government benches, and then they will have the opportunity to put their own people on the board of such an authority, if by any long chance these dire things did happen. But of course they will not happen. 
We shall have men of great ability on our pipeline authority. We shall have men who are looking to the future far beyond when natural gas itself is available in Australia. We shall have people on the board of this authority running it efficiently, running it in the interests of the Australian people, making sure that when one well of natural gas dries up it will be possible to plug into the grid another available source of natural gas, available in the interests of all Australians whether they live on the eastern seaboard or the western seaboard. I will not take up any more time of the House. I know that members of the Opposition want to move amendments not only at the second reading stage. Because of the all important legislation we want to put through this Parliament in the short time available to us, we on this side of the House have agreed to restrain ourselves in the things we would like to say. I end on the note on which I began. This is a thoroughly good day for Australia when we have an authority such as this. I pay a tremendous tribute to the Minister for Minerals and Energy for the energy he has shown in bringing this Bill to the Parliament and getting so far as we have in such a short space of time. It is with those remarks that I support this Bill with enthusiasm. 
Before the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  leaves the chamber, I should like to say that what we have just heard from him was a shocking and useless exercise in destructive cynicism. When is this man going to be constructive? What a tragedy for this country if he ever should become Prime Minister. He failed as Treasurer in the previous Government. Stagflation ran amok and unemployment rose to 2 per cent or 120,000 people. No wonder he is leaving the chamber; I am reminding him of the performance he put up when he had responsibility. Instead of hearing something constructive on this Bill today, we have heard nothing but destructive criticism. All the Leader of the Opposition has ever done - he did it again today - is huff and puff against the unions and now this destructive criticism has been turned to such legislation as this Bill, which proposes to establish a Prices Justification Tribunal, and also to the Joint Committee on Prices of which I have the honour to be  Chairman.  If he feels the way he does about the Joint Committee on Prices, why are members of his own Party playing such a constructive role on this Committee? The Leader of the Opposition should remember when he makes these sideswipes against genuine attempts - this Bill represents the first genuine and proper attempt - to do something about inflation in this country that some honourable members on his side of the House are also helping in this attempt. 
Just as yesterday we experienced within this House the Federal Labor Government proposing a measure of great national importance, namely, the Pipeline Authority Bill, and finding it opposed by the Liberal-Country Party Opposition in this place - true successors to those narrow men who opposed 25 years ago the great national Snowy Mountains scheme- 
It is sad that the honourable member for Angas has been cut to the quick; no doubt it is because what 1 am saying is the truth. As I said, 25 years ago the predecessors of those opposite opposed such a Bill as this and today we find similar opposition to another great Federal Labor 
Government innovation as represented by this Prices Justification Bill. 
In this case, honourable members opposite - I except the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  from this because he did make a constructive contribution during his speech on this Bill - are the true successors to those who, in the early 1930s, opposed the then Treasurer Theodore and those who advocated deficit financing to spend our way out of the tragic depression of those years. (Quorum formed) T do not wonder that honourable members opposite do not like hearing the truth of this matter, following the contribution of their Leader prior to my rising to my feet. They are the true successors of those who opposed the policy of spending our way out of the great depression in the 1930s. There was less excuse in those days. John Maynard Keynes had not written his great work 'General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money' then. There is no excuse for Labor's opponents today because John Kenneth Galbraith has clearly outlined the futility of attempting to rely on fiscal and monetary policies alone. He has shown how budgetary policy of cutting government expenditure in relation to government income and Reserve Bank policy of raising interest rates and cutting back lending alone are only blunt policies and are futile. 
People do not react in the same way now to those sorts of policies. Public tastes and reactions have changed. All that happens when governments rely on those policies to contain inflation is what happened in this country between February 1971 and the election of a Federal Labor Government, namely, a tragic rate of unemployment with prices continuing to rise; in other words, stagflation. Last year the rate of unemployment in this country was 2 per cent or 120,000 people, yet under the Liberal Government the rate of inflation raged on. That was just not good enough. New policies had to be devised. Galbraith did not point out in his published works only the futility of the old policies; he also pointed out the way to new policies. I refer to his publication 'A Contemporary Guide to Economics, Peace and Laughter'. I refer particularly to chapter 5, Inflation, Recession or Controls', and also to a couple of chapters in 'The New Industrial State', another work of his. Those works give a significant academic justification of the multi-pronged approach being undertaken by this Federal Labor Government in its attack on stagnation, and this should not be forgotten. 
I want to emphasise this multi-pronged approach of the Federal Labor Government. One or 2 speeches from the Opposition in this - the one from the Leader of the Opposition was no exception - debate have been of a completely simplistic type, as though restraining wages would constitute a panacea which would cure all our ills and our inflation problems. This was certainly so in the speech of the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  who led for the Opposition in this debate. He continued with the huffing and puffing against the unions and it was repeated by the Leader of the Opposition. He even went so far as to say: 
There is nothing essentially mysterious about the inflation that is currently being experienced in Australia. It does not derive from a national bout of profiteering by Australian companies; there is no evidence to suggest that profit margins are being expanded. It is not the result of a national business conspiracy to systematically plunder the consumer in the interests of higher profits. 
What a lot of nonsense that is. What evidence has he that there is not a national bout of profiteering in many areas or that profit margins are not being expanded? As some honourable members will remember, I did some work on one or two undertakings just over a year ago. I acted, in effect, as a oneman prices justification tribunal. I chose the brewing industry for more detailed investigation. It was my opinion that the profits earned as a ratio of funds invested represented a rate of return which, in the case of many brewing companies, was quite excessive. Since then the announcements of brewing company profits in the financial newspapers have shown that the breweries have improved their position. This is inevitable because in their monopoly or quasi-monopoly position they were hardly likely to let their position worsen. Let us look at a few of these announcements. The Advertiser' of 14th April had the headline: Bonanza for SA Brewing shareholders'. The article shows that the pay-out of dividends to shareholders has exactly doubled between 1967 and 1973. The dividend pay-out in 1967 was $1.155m and in 1973 it was $2.31m. I know that some increase in capital may have occurred, but it certainly would not be an increase of that rate. In the 'Australian' on 10th May there was the headline: Tooth up again'. New South Welshmen in this House will recognise the name of that company. The newspaper article stated: 
Sydney brewer, Tooth and Co. Ltd, has pushed up net profit higher for the eighteenth year in succession - this time by $lm. 
The net profit is $11,323,391 for the year to March 31 . . . 
That shows that profits have continued to rise since I drew the attention of this House to the rate of return of breweries. I will be the first to admit that I am not infallible. Unusual for a politician though it may be, I am a modest fellow. Perhaps I have been unfair to the breweries or to some of them. It is for our Prices Justification Tribunal to ascertain this. It is not a job for any one of us in this House. However, for the Leader of the Australian Country Party and the Leader of the Opposition to say that there is no evidence of exorbitant profits is mere window dressing. 
I will not be at all surprised if there are weaknesses in this Bill, because it is breaking new ground. It would be extraordinary if this were not so. In my view, it may be that clause 18 should apply only to the supply of goods or services of a particular description in respect of which the company received $20m in the previous financial year for the same class of transaction as that in respect of which the higher price is proposed. There could be other weaknesses in the Bill. However, there is great flexibility in the structure of the Tribunal and there are great hopes that, with the good will of the business community which, I believe, also wants this wages-prices-costs nexus broken, a tremendous amount will be achieved. The Bill can be tightened later in the light of experience. The attitude of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd in putting its case before  Mr Justice  Moore's tribunal showed that the good will certainly exists in some quarters and I believe that the business community of this nation will show more of the attitude of being good Australians and joining with the Government in doing something about this pricescostswages nexus than has been displayed today and yesterday by Opposition members. I believe that such leadership as we have seen from BHP in this instance should be commended. 
I draw to the attention of the House, and in particular to the attention of the Leader of the Opposition, the achievements of the British Prices and Income Board in the prices field. It was left free to a great extent - as our Prices Justification Tribunal will be left free  -  to determine its own criteria. In the prices field the British authority has achieved much, although in the incomes field it has achieved very little. More than that, it has built up an expertise in the field of business efficiency - an expertise which will be of great use to the country in many different spheres. It is obvious that the prices field is the first one to be tackled. Those on the Opposition benches who continue thinking that the way to tackle inflation is just to complain about the unions or to complain about rises in wages are living in cloud cuckoo land. All the experience, including that of the British Prices and Incomes Board, is that if we put the lid on the pressure cooker in an area such as this it may have a temporary effect; but as soon as the lid is blown off, as it will be when there is injustice in the form of low wages, we will have the same rise in prices over a length of time as we would have had if no lid had been put no. If we are to break this nexus the first place to attack is prices, for the good reason that it is only when the Government shows, as this Government is showing, that it is prepared to draw attention to exorbitant profits and high prices that others will exercise restraint. 
It is not only restraint of incomes of unionists that is required, it is restraint from professional people as well. Who are giving a lead at the moment when it comes to the professions? It is the doctors in what they are demanding. I should be a little more accurate - it is the leaders of the doctors, who will not even inform uV Government of what doctors' fee rises will be from 1st July so that the Government can make attempts to do something about medical benefits in order to reduce the hardship caused to people in Australia from medical costs. That is the sort of leadership that is being given by those in that profession. Yet the huffing and puffing goes on opposite against unions although the unions represent people on much lower incomes than doctors enjoy. In other words, we are hearing only the voice of the past from the Opposition. 
Before concluding I draw attention to the worthwhile effect of prices legislation in my own State of South Australia. There we have a very active Prices Commissioner and Consumer Affairs Branch. I. believe that it can easily be shown that prices in South Australia are 4 per cent less than elsewhere. The Federal Government is attempting to bring to the Commonwealth sphere the sort of benefits of legislation that we have had in South Australia. It is true that this legislation affects only companies with a turnover of S20m a year, but at the same time it has to be pointed out that the legislation affects 350 companies which are responsible for twothirds of the turnover of this nation. As pointed out to me by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  if the Leader of the Opposition is so worried about the other one-third turnover why does he not move an amendment to this Bill to include everybody else under its jurisdiction? 
I shall end on this point: The Government's attack on inflation, or stagflation as we still have it - we must not forget that there are still 81,000 people unemployed in Australia - is a multi-pronged one. This measure is only one of those prongs. The work of the Joint Committee on Prices is another method of attacking and drawing attention to that onethird area which is not included in the provisions of this Bill. We have also to consider Australia's revaluation of currency, doing something about the funds which come here from overseas. Australia is awash with funds in the banks in the community. Demand has been high because of that. We have already been given notice that new restrictive trade practices legislation, which will have teeth, is to be introduced. We hope that this will have the result of bringing greater competition to the community. All these measures add up to the first worthwhile attempt to tackle the important matter of inflation since  Sir Robert  Menzies won power in 1949 on the slogan of bringing value back to the pound. This is the first worthwhile attempt in 23 years, and it is with a great deal of pleasure that 1 support this Bill. 
As Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee I present the 143rd report of that Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a short statement concerning the report. 
-Has the Treasurer noted that the wholly foreign owned company, Abbey Capital Property Finance Ltd, is seeking from the Australian capital market $20m to $25m at interest rates of from 8 per cent to 9 per cent? Is it a fact that this capital will be used for investment in commercial property development in Australia with the effect not only of increasing property prices and interest rates but also of ensuring that more of this country is owned abroad? Is there anything that the Treasuer can do to prevent this scandalous situation whereby Australian savings are used for this purpose? 
As Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee, I present the 144th report of the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
 Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a short statement. 
Mir SPEAKER-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Honourable members will recall that last Thursday, 24 May, I tabled the 143rd report of the Public Accounts Committee covering Treasury minutes on the Committee's 121st, 127th and 134th reports. The document which I have tabled today relates to an inquiry conducted in 1971-72 into the management and financial administration of the then Department of Education and Science. 
In pursuing this inquiry and preparing its report, the Committee has been conscious of the considerable interest shown by members in all matters relating to education - especially the Commonwealth's role and responsibilities in this field. Accordingly, the Public Accounts Committee has been concerned not only to report on the financial aspects of departmental management but also to provide a detailed commentary on the policies, structure and workings of the Department. Although there have been considerable changes in the structure of the Department of Education and Science since the Committee conducted its inquiry, the information contained in the 144th report provides a useful background for further study of current educational trends and policies. 
I suggest to all honourable members that they study the report, particularly where it outlines problems encountered by the Department of Education and Science in building up a satisfactory structure to carry out its various tasks. Matters relating to internal audit, staff training and recruitment and retention of specialist staff are examples of the difficulties encountered. This Parliament's Public Accounts Committee believes that these problems are common to the Public Service as a whole and are directly relevant to efficient administration in all its aspects. The Committee intends to return to these subjects from time to time when its program of activities permits and, of course, will report its finding on those occasions to the Parliament. Frankly, the numbers and classifications of staff available to the Committee do not allow an investigation of the type outlined in this report to be done in very great depth. A thorough organisation and methods investigation is, for instance, at the present time a function of the Public Service Board. However, we believe that the work which has been done is valuable for reasons already given and because such an inquiry stimulates the Department concerned into a thorough self examination. I commend the report to honourable members. 
-I direct my question to the Postmaster-General. What is the current position concerning the establishment within the PostmasterGeneral's Department of a courier service competitive with the services being offered outside his Department? 
-The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has made a farce of this debate tonight. He has resorted to witless attacks on personalities rather than relying on arguments. The effect was such that he had to send the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  to the Country Party benches to keep the Country Party members quiet. I am afraid to say too much more in case that situation changes. J reject the Opposition amendment as a shallow and cynical exercise in political juggling. I support the Budget, albeit with some reservations - we are not sheep on this side of the House - and I am proud to be the first to congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on a difficult job well done. Over 100 years ago a great English public figure Walter Bagehot, an economist and journalist, quoted a financier of those days as saying: 'If you want to raise a certain cheer in the House of Commons make a general panegyric on the economy. If you want to invite a sure defeat propose a particular saving'. How, oh how, the Leader of the Opposition attempted to follow the shallow thoughts of that financier tonight. For economies' substitute 'cut Government expenditure'. That is one of the few messages we have received in this laborious evening so far. Credibility is the key word. The speech lacked credibility. There was plenty of talk about economies but not much - in fact none - about where the savings were to come. Certainly it might raise a certain cheer among the unthinking - the sheep- on his own side of the House; but, just as Walter Bagehot would not go along with the financier, so the vast majority of the Australian people today who generally think about these things too deeply will not go along with the Leader of the Opposition. 
They throw at members of the Liberal and Country Party Opposition in this Parliament the questions which I direct to them now. Where do honourable members opposite want government expenditure cut? In their amendment they call it expansionary public sector spending'. Do they want the pensioners to receive less? Heaven knows, the Labor Party Government, although it has improved their lot a little by increasing the pension by $3 a week each in 10 months, would have loved to have done more. Would the Liberal and Country Party members have liked to practise their economy by cutting government expenditure on the pensioners? What about education? To use a favourite word of the Leader of the Opposition, is that not where the main thrust' - that is the in word at the moment - of this Budget has come? Perhaps honourable members opposite would like the government schools and the more deprived private schools to continue to be starved of funds. Has the report of the Karmel Committee - an independent committee with representation from all sides of education - no merit? Is that where the Liberals' savings would be? We were not told in the speech from the Leader of the Opposition tonight. They just talk about economy. 
In fact, I seem to remember their being a little inconsistent over the last few weeks on the subject of education. Of course this inconsistency is not unusual,  Mr Speaker.  You and I know that. But let me mention it in further detail. There has been a lot of Liberal and Country Party talk about spending another $5m or $6m a year on category A schools which already have an index of up to 270 as opposed to an average of 100 for government schools and as little as 40 for some poorer private schools. I might mention that the Government Party has not yet made a final decision on this matter. It is still collecting more facts. I do not mind admitting at this point of time that 1 would like to see the Karmel Committee report accepted in total. In other words, I would like to see a phasing out period for per capita grants given to category A schools, time for adjustments to be made by schools to their financial arrangements so that they do not have to increase fees and thus penalise the less wealthy parents of children going to those schools, time for adjustments by some parents and children where fees may have to be increased, and time for adjustments by the Karmel Committee where it may have made understandable mistakes in making its assessments because it had to do such a mammoth task in such a short space of time. I am able to advocate this because I am not a proponent of cutting government expenditure. Not so my Liberal and Country Party opponents; they believe in economy, in cutting government expenditure. In these circumstances how could they advocate spending more money on category A schools? 
Do they want to delete expenditure on the cities? Is that one of the areas where the cuts should be made? Is there nothing that should be done for the- quality of life in some of those overcrowded and cultureless suburbs of, say, Sydney and Melbourne? Should we not take notice of the cries of outrage, for instance, by the Ford Motor Company workers at Broadmeadows at the quality of their lives? Of course we should. Not only do 1 welcome the Australian Government's appropriation for the new South Australian city of Monarto and for public transport in all cities - of course, I ,am interested mainly in my own city of Adelaide - to take some of the pressures off the cities; I also welcome the initiatives in the western sectors of Sydney and Melbourne, the sewerage proposals and the plans for Albury-Wodonga and the systems cities on the outskirts of the big metropolitan cities of Sydney and Melbourne to ease the even greater pressures on those great cities, to say nothing of what is planned to be done for Perth, Brisbane and other places in our country. These expenditures are long overdue. There are far too many Australians not leading lives of sufficiently high standard because of the oversight, the lack of imagination and the laziness of the previous Liberal and Country Party Government that previously we had to withstand. 
Attention to cities reminds me of the great problems of housing and the price of land. With such a wide canvas as this one in a Budget debate I am forced to be brief and somewhat cryptic on specific measures. What a tragedy it is for our nation that we have such a negative approach from the Liberal and Country Party State governments of New South Wales, Victoria and, of course, Queensland. In the vicinity of 93,000 Australians are on the waiting list for housing commission or housing trust homes throughout this nation. The new Australian Labor Government has moved with great speed and energy to draw up a new housing agreement. Increased funds have been made available in this Budget for this splendid purpose. But all of this has been done in spite of Liberal and Country Party State governments and in the face of hostility from them. We learn from the media today that we are to be forced to overcome similar difficulties in relation to our plans for limiting the spiralling cost of land which causes such hardship in so many quarters. The Australian Labor Government, as announced in the Budget Speech, will provide $60m assistance to the States by way of repayable loans, and $30m is promised by way of grants for the establishment of land commissions designed to provide Australian families with land at fair prices. Yet the first sign from States with Liberal and Country Party governments is that this assistance is being spurned, and a reactionary non-Labor Legislative Council majority in at least one other State - Western Australia - is threatening to block the necessary State legislation to set up the commission there. We must defeat these troglodytes in the interests of more reasonable land prices for average Australians. 
Here I must sound a warning note: Our government must put tremendous effort into making more building resources available. If we make more money available than there are building materials and building workers available, there will be only one result - higher prices for buildings and higher building costs. Today's news of the disturbingly high increase in June in the wholesale price index for materials used in building other than house building is exercising the efforts of our energetic Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson).  The Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices, of which I am  Chairman,  has given itself the job, amongst many others, of looking into the prices of building materials. We shall proceed with that task just as quickly as we can. 
This brings me to the subject of inflation - another of the main thrusts, to use again that in word of the Leader of the Opposition in his effort tonight. The Budget is not only a social document - so far I have dwelt on social issues - but also an economic document. I concede that. I am sure that no one in this House disagrees with the proposition that inflation is a problem; in fact, our main problem. The Treasurer himself said so in his Budget Speech. What deserves such cynicism is the attitude of honourable members opposite to this subject. They do not know the answers. Twenty-three years of their administration proved this. Yet they want the Australian Labor Government to revert to their own outworn, unsuccessful measures creating unemployment - we had this only 2 years ago - which led to a shocking waste of resources at that time. Now they talk about a prices and incomes policy, which previously they roundly condemned in this chamber. They are doing their best to sabotage the new initiatives and polices being undertaken by this new Government. 
Let me be more specific about inflation. Firstly, let me point out that  Sir Robert  Menzies -  Mr Menzies  as he then was - won government in 1949 when inflation was running at 8.4 per cent. He promised to put value back' into the pound. We all remember that. Following the first budget of his Treasurer, Arthur Fadden, the annual rate of inflation rose to 13.6 per cent. After the next Budget the rate of inflation rose to 22.5 per cent a year. Ups and downs of this sort were the pattern of 23 years of Liberal and Country Party government. Secondly, let me say something about the present rate of inflation or, rather, let me quote from the leading article in the Australian Financial Review' last Thursday on the subject of the Leader of the Opposition and inflation. The article anticipated the sort of nonsense that we heard from him on this subject tonight. The article stated: 
With political dexterity but questionable economics  Mr Snedden  has been saying that he left the country with an inflation rate of only 4.8 per cent whereas now it is running at 13.2 per cent. 

 Mr Snedden's figures are obtained by multiplying the December quarter increase in the consumer price index by four and presenting it as an annual figure. 
For a number of reasons, not the least of which was the conscious budget policy in August of not touching items in the CPI, the December quarter figure was artifically, low. 
While the CPI was not cooked it was certainly given a cosmetic touch-up. 
Anybody with a knowledge of economics could see this. 
By the same token the 13.2 per cent increase now being quoted by  Mr Snedden  (obtained by multiplying the June quarter by four and presenting the result as an annual figure) was inflated by factors which were certainly well beyond the immediate control of the Labor Government. 
Meat prices rose during the June quarter by 11 per cent. 
The Leader of the Opposition would multiply that by four and say that meat prices rose by 44 per cent. 
He did not say it in his speech on the Budget tonight because he does not know how to do it. The article continued: 
Winter clothing rose by 11.1 per cent during the June quarter. Home ownership costs rose by 3.3 per cent. 
These were the big ticket items of the CPI increase. 
The article went on to state: 
Just as the inflationary situation confronted by the Menzies-Fadden Government in 1950-51-52 had its roots in events beyond the control of the Government, so too the present situation is one that is a little more complex than  Mr Snedden  would have us believe. 1 need do no more than' present the point of view of that newspaper. I will leave Sneddenomics - I think that is what they called it - to their deserved fate. 
Thirdly, on the subject of inflation, I want to talk about the fact that a vast proportion of our inflation is imported from abroad. Anybody reading the daily Hansard reports of the evidence being collected by the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices cannot fail to be struck by this. High beef prices are almost entirely due to the demand for that product abroad, particularly in the United States of America and Japan. High lamb prices are due to shortages of stock in this country at a time when world wool prices have recovered. Winter clothing prices reflect the surge in wool prices. The price of cotton and cotton fabric have escalated, not due to anything that has happened in this country but due to the serious world shortage of cotton. Even with salmon we have a world shortage until, it is estimated, 1975. It is the world shortage of salmon which has been to such a large extent responsible for the increased price that Australian housewives have to pay for this product in our supermarkets. I could go on and give one example after another of where prices within our country are affected by prices on the world market and have nothing to do with what ls going on in this country whatsoever. Yet, in spite of this incontravertible fact we have the Opposition members so often putting all the blame on wages and salaries, putting their faith on an incomes policy - a new faith since they became comfortable in Opposition. We heard it again tonight. They called it a wages freeze. Where has such a policy succeeded? lt has certainly not succeeded in the United States. It merely builds up pressures. The lid of the pressure cooker gets blown off eventually in industrial upset. The rate of inflation over a reasonable period is as great in those countries attempting to impose prices and incomes policies as in those such as ours which have not done so. I could quote from the Reserve Bank's 1972-73 report to justify everything that I have said about these external prices and how a prices and incomes policy - a wage freeze as we have heard from the Leader of the Opposition tonight - would be futile. 
Next, let me make it quite clear that the Australian Labor Government realises that there is not one cure for inflation - it must be attacked on many fronts, and that is what the Government has been doing. Of course, revaluation of our currency has helped greatly and has caused very little dislocation in spite of the howls from the Opposition when it was brought in. It should have been undertaken a year earlier. We would not be suffering the inflation troubles today to the same extent if the McMahon Government, put in a straitjacket by the Australian Country Party, had not muffed the chance and badly let down this country. Of course, the direct controls on capital inflow have helped. Our financial institutions had funds flowing out of their ears. Of course the Government's monetary policy has been in the right direction. I am referring to the calling up of the statutory reserve deposits. I would like to see more of this. In addition we have had the courageous decision relating to the 25 per cent across the board cut in tariffs. At least we have some public structures acting as watchdogs in the private sector, seeking to ensure that important decisions being made in the private sector are being made in the community interest. I am, of course, referring to the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices. Let us ensure that we have got competition and efficiency and reasonable rates of return on invested funds in the private sector, not exorbitant rates. All of these are new initiatives. All represent a multipronged attack on inflation. 
Lastly I refer to the so called inflationary effect of this Budget made so much of by the Leader of the Opposition.  Dr Peter  Sheehan of the University of Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research is one of the few economists in recent times specifically to analyse the impact of budgets on the overall level of economic activity in Australia. Few others have done it. Despite the obviously complex nature of the Budget influence on the economy, Sheehan has argued that the ratio of the Budget deficit to total Budget receipts is a satisfactory indicator of the Budget impact. The average ratio of the Budget deficit to receipts during the period 1959-60 to 1971-72 was 6.5 per cent.  Dr Sheehan  suggests that in order to maintain the economy on a full employment growth path without excessive inflation a satisfactory Budget would incur a deficit of about 5 per cent to 7 per cent 6f receipts. What do we find in our Budget? The estimated deficit to receipts ratio for the 1973-74 Budget is 6 per cent. On the basis of Sheehan's criteria the impact of the 1973-74 Budget on the level of economic activity is likely to be neutral, that is, neither expansionary nor contractionary. In an address to the Canberra Branch of the Economic Society of Australia and New Zealand only last week which I heard myself, concerning this Budget,  Dr Sheehan  suggested that rather than being neutral the overall impact may even be contractionary. I would rather accept  Dr Sheehan's  analysis than that of the Leader of the Opposition. 
Let me say that I do regret the indirect taxes, particularly the increase in petrol prices, because of their effect on the Consumer Price Index and inflation. I wish some alternative could have been found for them. I wish perhaps that this had been the year of some capital gains tax or wealth tax. But I know what sort of pressures the Treasurer has been under and I accept that he chose the best of all the alternatives available to him at that time. This, for me, is but one blemish, and I refer here to the effect of indirect taxes on the Consumer Price Index. I reject the Opposition's amendment. In the interests of the vast majority of Australians I have pleasure in once again congratulating the Treasurer on a difficult job well done. I support the Budget wholeheartedly. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether it is a fact that the Australian Government approved plans in mid-July to transfer 10,000 public servants and in other ways to improve efficiency in the Australian Public Service - well before members of the Opposition commenced making their hollow noises on this subject? Is it also a fact that the Public Service itself suffered over 20 years of neglect by the previous Government and welcomes these moves as evidenced by what was said by one of its union leaders on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's AM' program this morning? 
On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices I bring up the Committee's report on the stabilisation of meat prices. A dissenting report signed by 4 members of the Committee is included with the main report. I also bring up the minutes of proceedings taken in connection with this inquiry. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 

 - Mr Speaker, I raise a matter of privilege based on an article published on Tuesday, 18 September 1973 in the 'Sun', a Sydney evening newspaper, under the heading: '5 ways to cut Meat Prices - Report by MPs'. I produce a copy of the Sun' printed and published by John Fairfax and Sons Ltd of Jones Street, Broadway, Sydney, Postcode 2007, for the Proprietors, Associated Newspapers Ltd. Now that I have brought down the report on the stabilisation of meat prices from the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices it will be obvious to honourable members that recommendations made by the Committee in its report were prematurely published in a front page article in the 'Sun' on Tuesday, 18 September 1973. It is well known that the publication or disclosure of reports of committees before they have been reported to the House constitutes a breach of privilege or contempt. This position is made clear in May's 'Parliamentary Practice' and in standing order 340 of the House which provides that the report of a committee which has not been reported to the House shall not, unless authorised by the House, be disclosed or published by any member of such committee or by any other person. 
Honourable members will appreciate that such an action on the part of the editor of the 'Sun' newspaper places suspicion on each member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices and on the personnel of our secretariat. It was the unanimous wish of the Committee at a meeting, today that I, as Chairman of the Committee, should raise this matter in the House at the first available opportunity. Clearly publication of recommendations from the Committee's report 2 days prior to its presentation to the House constitutes a breach of privilege of the House and accordingly, I move: 
That the matter of the article in the 'Sun' of Tuesday, 18 September 1973, relating to the recommendations of the Joint Committee on Prices in its report on stabilisation of meat prices be referred to the Committee of Privileges. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Because it is so difficult to forecast the future demand for wheat, as it is for nearly all primary industry products, will he do his best to ensure that at this time of buoyant demand and high prices some proceeds are prudently put aside for greater storage facilties and also for future income subsidy? 
Has the Prime Minister noted that some people are suggesting that the Australian Labor Government is not matching deeds with words in assisting business? Is it a fact that saving  the  business community from 90-day freezes, if this was ever a practical proposition, from Gorton-type slashing of Government expenditure or from McMahon-Snedden type budgets with their vast increases in taxation - saving the business community from these disastrous Opposition policies - is almost sufficient in itself without detailing the positive ways in which business has been helped? 
This is one of the supreme examples of how, if the Opposition had shown a little more sense in the second reading debate, and had arrived at an opportunity to utilise the services of the officers of the Department of Secondary Industry and the Australian Industry Development Corporation to learn a little more about these things, we would not have had before us this very stupid amendment. The fact is that already these functions are being carried out. 
Question put - 
That the clause proposed to be omitted  (Mr  Lynch's amendment) stand part of the Bill, 
I do not want to delay the Committee for very long, but I do want to say, having listened to the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  that I think he has failed to understand the nature of this Bill. I base that upon what he has had to say. I want to remind him of what the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said about this provision. He said that there are large areas in which the AIDC will operate as before. That will be in the private sector. The right honourable member for Lowe has taken advice on this. I have asked the same questions as the right honourable member for Lowe and received privately answers which satisfied me that because it would be in the private sector, those sections of the AIDC which are operating in the private sector should be in every nature private, which means that eminent firms of chartered accountants - I do not see why we should not mention the firm in this case; it is the firm well known throughout Australia of Edwin V. Nixon and Partners - should continue in the role of auditors. It is a body which is operating in the private sector, has great relationships in the private sector and should be seen to have those relationships. To that extent, the private firm of auditors provides the most appropriate people to be the auditors. Where the AIDC moves into the public sector - there are areas where this Bill will allow the AIDC to do so - the Auditor-General has his particular function. I support the Minister in resisting any changes in this area. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 5. 
Section 6 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by omitting sub-section (1) and substituting the following sub-section: - "(1) The functions of the Corporation are - 
to facilitate and encourage the establishment, development and advancement of Australian industries concerned with the manufacture, processing, treatment, transportation or distribution of goods, or the development or use of natural resources (including the recovery of minerals), by - &lt;i) providing, or assisting in the provision of, the financial resources required by Australian companies engaging, or proposing to engage, in any, such industries or in activities that are connected with, or incidental to, those industries; and 
engaging or participating in enterprises or developmental projects in relation to any such industries or activities', and 
to secure, to the greatest extent that is practicable, participation by Australian residents in the ownership and control of companies engaging in any such industries or activities."; and 
by adding at the end thereof the following sub-section: - " (4) Without limiting the generality of subsection (1), the functions of the Corporation may be performed - 
in the capacity of, and to the extent that they are appropriate to be performed by, a trading or financial corporation formed within the limits of Australia; or 
for the purpose of assisting Australian companies, being trading or financial corporations formed within the limits of Australia, in their trading or financial operations.  and sub-section (3) does not restrict the performance by the Corporation of its functions in accordance with this sub-section.". 
I realise that time is the essence in this debate and I will not take very long. Both the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  have advocated that we should return to the status quo. In a very few words I want to say how sorry I am that consideration of this Bill during the Committee stage will not take a long time. I must confess that there has been a breakdown in communications relating to the second reading speech on this Bill. It was sincerely hoped on the Government side of this Parliament that there would be a meeting of the minds across the table at the Committee stage of this Bill. To that effect the services of the officers of the Department of Secondary Industry and the Australian Industry Development Corporation were offered. It came as a surprise to me that the Bill was brought on for debate so soon, because as  Chairman  of the Caucus Economic Committee I learned of the offer of the officers only at the same time as the Opposition did. I am still hopeful that when this Bill comes back into this House after a time in the Senate, if other arrangements cannot be made on this occasion, we can have a good detailed study of it. 
I want to say sincerely something which I think could be said to come within the ambit of this clause, because this clause is the essence of the proposed changes. I believed, and many have believed, that the changes advocated by the Government were in line with the thinking of the previous Government. The right honourable member for Lowe nods his head. The changes arose out of the fact that the purposes of the Bill were defined by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in his speech during the second reading debate, and have been mentioned by the right honourable member for Lowe. They were to preserve Australian control over the mining and manufacturing industries as well as providing development finance in situations where existing financial institutions were not able to provide that finance. The second of those purposes of the Bill has been covered by the Bill. But, in the light of experience, I think that the first of them has not been covered, and that is the reason for these changes in the functions of the Australian Industry Development Corporation, that is the reason for the widening of its functions. 
I do not accept that. I think that is a misunderstanding at which the right honourable gentleman has arrived. Certainly the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  who sits at the table mentioned and quoted from the speech of  Sir Alan  Westerman when he was delivering his speech during the second reading debate. But that is not what has motivated the Government in this matter. In the light of experience we have found that the takeover of Australian industries is not prevented unless we can find within Australia the investment funds to take the place of overseas funds. The functions of the Australian Industry Development Corporation, both in our view and in the view of many men, if I may say so, who are the political colleagues of the 2 gentlemen at the table opposite, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the right honourable member for Lowe, need to be widened to do this, and that is precisely what these clauses in this Bill do. I draw to the attention of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the right honourable member for Lowe to clause 5. (a) (ii) which reads:  engaging or participating in enterprises or developmental projects in relation to any such industries or activities', 
This is in order to allow the AIDC itself to enter into joint ventures with other organisations in order to achieve the same purpose that the right honourable member for Lowe when he was Prime Minister of this country set out to achieve. It is in the light of experience that we have arrived at these conclusions and that any men of different political persuasions have arrived at these conclusions. I promised that I would not take one minute more than I had to in order to allow more ground to be covered and I am going to rest on those comments. 
I will not detain the Committee for long, but there are a couple of extra points to which I would like to draw the attention of the Parliament at this stage. Are we dinkum about keeping Australian resources in our hands or are we not? The fact is that the Australian Labor Party that now governs went to the people with such a proposition not so much to buy back Australia, which we heard a lot about, but at least to attempt to buy a proportion of the increasing investment in Australia. We need some overseas investment. Technology will be coming in. But at the same time we want to harness as much savings within Australia as possible so that the resources of this country are kept in Australian hands. It is the future investment that I am particularly interested in, at the same time attempting to buy back some of the sales that have taken place, with all that that means - and I need not go into that. 
The clause we are discussing contains a proposition to harness the funds in order to do that. Here we have the Opposition showing its true colours in opposing this attempt. It does not put up anything as an alternative to what we are suggesting. Admittedly in the second reading debate the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  went a stage further than Opposition members have previously and laid down some guidelines in the matter of Australian management and a few things like that, but I suggest that they were pretty nebulous. They did not come to the kernel of what we are attempting to do here - raise the funds, harness the funds within Australia to take the place of the overseas funds which have been bringing about so much that we do not want to continue. The debate on this Bill shows up that one opportunity we have of tapping an important area where the smaller man can invest in his own country. We had a year or two ago - many members will remember this - the proposition of the present Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  and the present Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  to attempt to raise funds to buy a portion of the Simpson Desert. The way the small amounts flowed into their offices at that time showed that the small man in this country has a great deal of interest in buying a part of his own country. The endowment insurance and public retirement fund provisions of this legislation will be a means of harnessing the funds of the smaller man to do just this. 
We have heard the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  in particular talk about nationalisation and what this legislation can do in that area. I must tell him, if he does not already know it, that an appropriation would have to be made and brought to this House in order to harness funds in that way in our country for the Government to invest on behalf of the people in any enterprise. There will be plenty of future occasions when he can debate whether that is right or wrong. In this legislation we are attempting to raise funds voluntarily from the little men of this country in order to buy part of their heritage, part of the resources of this country. That is what we are attempting to do and I support it wholeheartedly. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I am in an invidious position. I find myself rising as the opening  speaker  in this debate on behalf of the Government, set the task of answering the case put forward by the right honourable member who led for the Opposition. I find myself sparring with shadows. The best thing that could be said for the speech of the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  is that while he was making it I could see the discomfort being experienced by certain members of the Liberal Party sitting on the Opposition benches, and I have no wonder at that. I understand that the Leader of the Country Party led for the Opposition in this debate because the Liberal Party had not, until a short while ago, determined an attitude. I believe that somebody is now quickly trying to compose a speech which will reflect that attitude. I myself would have been extremely happy to know just what was to be that attitude. However, I trust that the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  who sat in this chamber during the contribution of the Leader of the Country Party will stay true to their principles and support this measure. Of course I trust also that their Liberal Party colleagues will do likewise. 
Let us analyse the argument put forward by the Leader of the Country Party. To me the whole gist of his argument was: 'Let us put off debating this Bill because we have not had the howl from the community that we expected from it'. This was the main purport of his message. The members of the Country Party howled when the Australian Labor Government introduced measures against inflation in the form of revaluation - measures which were correct. They howled, incorrectly again, when the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut was introduced on 17 July last. That has proved to have a completely hollow sound as well. Because they have not heard the opposition to: this measure that they expected to hear from industry and those outside this Parliament, they want to put the measure off until they can hear that opposition and until they can get a better idea of which way they should go. 'Do not confuse me with the facts' is their argument. 'We have an intuitive judgment one way and that is the way we ought to act' is the essence of their argument on this legislation. 
In the Industries Assistance Commission Bill the Government is trying to improve the working of the Tariff Board. It is the function of the Tariff Board to find out the facts on complex economic issues and to advise. I put the emphasis on the word 'advise'. That is what the Industries Assistance Commission will do, but it will be set up in a far more satisfactory form in order to do this and it will be given wider terms of reference so that it is not advising in just a narrow sphere. Seeking further consideration in the autumn session does not achieve anything for this Parliament or for the people. I am looking now at  Sir John  Crawford's report.  His  letter to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was dated 19 June 1973; so we have had the report before us since then. He is a man who has great support on all sides of this Parliament and, indeed, in this country. I am sure that the honourable member for Wakefield will agree with me, even if nobody else on this side of the House does, that this Bill follows pretty well completely the report by  Sir John  Crawford. It is a well argued, well documented report which, I repeat, has been before us since 19 June. Is that not sufficient time for people to study and to know the arguments in favour of this Bill? Of course it is. We do not need any further delay in order to look at the facts. 
Another of the favourite catchcries of people such as the Leader of the Australian Country Party, which was brought out in his emotional, hollow address, is that the Government is erecting another bureaucracy. How is this Commission any different from the Tariff Board, which has been supported on all sides of this House? It is different only because it is being given wider functions and made more streamlined in order to be able to carry out those functions and because it applies to primary industry good principles which previously have been applied to secondary industry and covers not only imports and tariffs but also duties and bounties. Indeed, it is the first chink in the armour of having a look at the facts relating to tertiary industry - something which is close to my heart. I am sorry that at this stage, because of the lack of well qualified personnel in our community, it is not possible to make it mandatory for all matters relating to subsidies and bounties to tertiary industry to be reported on by the Industries Assistance Commission; but I have no doubt, from the way that good sense is prevailing in the Government of this country and the way that improvements are being made, that in time matters in relation to tertiary industry also will be included. 
The Leader of the Country Party referred to industries assistance withdrawal. Why should it be withdrawal if the facts show plainly that the assistance shoud be there? I repeat that 'do not confuse me with the facts' is the principle on which he bases his argument. I trust that the Liberal Party will not be following the very poor lead that the Opposition has received in this debate. The Leader of the Country Party referred to the Commission as a central planning body with vast powers. It has not any powers other than the power to advise. I repeat that the cry of the Leader of the Country Party is: 'Do not confuse me with facts'. All that the Industries Assistance Commission is obliged to do is to seek out the facts and to advise the Government on those facts. The Government still has all the cards in its hands in order to make the policies in relation to those facts. The Commission will not be a central planning body. 
Fortunately, a long term planning body is being set up in the Department of the Special Minister of State. I think, and many people in industry think, that it will be of great advantage to this country to have some long term, indicative planning so that, whether we are in the Australian Government here in Canberra, in State government, in commerce or in primary, secondary or tertiary industry, we all will know where we are heading. I think that in that there is a great virtue - virtue which is accepted by almost every other mixed economy in the world. But this Commission is not the body for long term planning. This is not a central bureaucracy in any way. That was merely an example of an emotional approach by the Leader of the Country Party. 
Another of his claims was that industry cannot put its views. Industry has 2 opportunities to put its views when matters of policy in this area are determined. Industry can put its views openly before the Industries Assistance Commission, just as it can put its views now before the Tariff Board. Industry can and will continue to converse with Government. I am the  Chairman  of the Parliamentary Labor Party's Economic Committee, and I know that dialogue goes on not only between various areas of the business community and industry and Ministers but also with committees such as ours. This will continue. It is of mutual advantage. I am sure that this practice occurs in the Opposition as well. So, there is another kite which was flown by the Leader of the Country Party and which deserves to be shot to ribbons. 
We were told that the Government cannot reject or amend the Commission's recommendations. That is completely false. I remind you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the Industries Assistance Commission has no function other than to sort out the facts. I know that you are aware of this. But, by the contribution so far from the Country Party - I trust that we will not hear a similar contribution from the hon ourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  who will be leading on behalf of the Liberal Party - one would be led to believe that the Government could not reject the Commission's recommendations. The central thought arising from the speech of the Leader of the Country Party is that he is afraid of the facts. 
I turn to some of the features of the Bill before the House. 'I remind the House that if there is one thing that any government of this country can achieve it is an improvement in the standard of living of the people of this country. An improvement in the standard of living of the people of this country cannot be measured just in terms of gross national product or gross national income. Many more people are coming to this country and we have a rate of inflation. So, measurements in those terms are fairly meaningless. What it can be measured in terms of is the per capita growth in this country. Under 23 years of LiberalCountry Party government in this country we have had a shocking record of per capita growth. When compared with almost every other country with a similar mixed economy to ours, we are well down the league table. The reason for that is that in this country we have suffered a government which has not seen to a proper allocation of the resources of this country; in this country we have suffered a government which has responded to every little sectional interest in one way or another. If it were not by some form of tariff, bounty, dairy subsidy or some taxation concession, some other way would be found to help a sectional interest. But now Australia has a government which believes in looking at the country as a whole and in looking at per capita growth. That is why the Labor Government is not afraid of the facts relating to where resources should be allocated in Australia. We are particularly keen that these facts should, as part of open government, be collected in the open. That is the rationale behind the Industries Assistance Commission. It is a rationale which should be supported wholeheartedly by this House. 
I will not detain the House longer. I do not want merely to repeat what is in the Minister's second reading speech outlining the particular features of this Bill. There will be plenty of opportunity for others to do that. I do not want to repeat what is in the Crawford report which all honourable members have had since 19 June. Others in government have had longer to study that report. I am waiting with bated breath to hear the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  leading on behalf of the Liberal Party. I trust that he will not be supporting the stupid arguments that we have heard from the Leader of the Country Party. 
I cannot help contrasting the remarks of the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  with what I have read of the views of his colleague, the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  when it comes to attitudes to Indonesia. However, let me allow them to fight their own battles on that subject and let me say that, as far as I am concerned and I am sure my colleagues in the Australian Government are concerned, relationships with Indonesia have never been better. They are splendid. I am glad of the activities of Amnesty and other organisations in ensuring that as few people as possible will be behind prison bars anywhere in the world. If people are behind prison bars in Indonesia - I have no personal evidence of that - I trust that through Amnesty and other proper avenues we will see that tensions are broken down and as many people as possible are released to freedom. I want to make these points about Australia's relationship with Indonesia: There have been harmonious conclusions to the negotiations on the border between Papua New Guinea and Indonesia since the Australian Labor Government took office on 2 December. Furthermore, the Indonesian Foreign Minister,  Dr Malik,  will visit Australia in November. We welcome his visit and we welcome every possible negotiation we have with his country. There are very close contacts, and these will be maintained through frequent visits of high level officials between our 2 countries. 
However, in addressing myself to the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs I want to say something about Australia-New Zealand relations. In short, although there have been wonderful improvements in relaionships between the Australian Labor Government and the new New Zealand Labor Government, my message is that the 2 countries take each other far too much for granted. In other words, we must make much more effort than we have in the past to take note of each other's point of view. In mentioning the improvements in relations I pay tribute to the Ministers of our own Government and the Ministers of the New Zealand Labor Government who have visited each other's country and built up relationships since December last. 
I had the pleasure of visiting New Zealand for 10 days early in September as a guest of the New Zealand Government. I had visited the country as a long-in-the-tooth student about 15 years ago but then for only 3 days and only part of the North Island of New Zealand. My trip in September was rather different. I want publicly to express my thanks to all those responsible for this most enlightening journey for me, and I hope for honourable members when I tell them about it. Before setting out to be an expert or pundit on this subject, let me state my credentials. I took part in a seminar on the subject of New Zealand-Australian Co-operation at the Victoria University in Wellington on the first week-end of my visit. The New Zealand Prime Minister, the Honourable Norman Kirk and the Leader of the New Zealand Opposition, the Honourable John Marshall, also were participants in this splendidly organised seminar which was sponsored jointly by the Victoria University Department of Extension and the Centre for Continuing Education at our own Australian National University in Canberra. 
I then spent 3 days in Wellington conferring with Cabinet Ministers and senior public servants - mainly heads of departments. I express my thanks to all who gave their time to me and also to a senior journalist who was travelling with me. As an example of the cooperation that was shown,  Mr Norman  Kirk gave us an hour of his time, and that was much appreciated. The next day I was in Invercargill in the South Island, or more accurately at the relatively new aluminium smelter at The Bluff, near Invercargill - a good example of AustraliaNew Zealand co-operation. A number of Australians work at that aluminium smelter, where Australian resources, in the form of bauxite, are processed by the use of New Zealand power. The next day I spent as a guest of the City Council of Christchurch, the third city of New Zealand and the sister city of my own city of Adelaide, which I am proud to represent in this Parliament. 
It was laid out by the same fellow, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide so well knows. The next day and a half before I returned home I spent in Auckland, the premier commercial city of New Zealand and the largest city of that nation. Those are my credentials. Now for my views based not only on this experience but also on living and working with many New Zealanders and reading and listening to much on this subject. 
In essence, Australians and New Zealanders, it must be said, are basically the same people. It is incredible how similar we are and how our aspirations are so much the same. To focus on the ridiculous, our national dishes are even the same - the good old meat pie for the main course and the pavlova for the sweet. As far as I am concerned, the only problem with New Zealanders is that they play rugby football instead of good old Australian rules. Yet, despite these similarities we take each other far too much for granted. Australians ignore New Zealanders. We are tpo preoccupied with areas to our north, to the neglect of those to our south and east. New Zealanders are far too apprehensive of Australians. They find us too brash. They worry about us swamping them with our uncouthness. At the expense of incurring the wrath of my friends in the United Kingdom, I am bound to say that New Zealanders have been far too ready to listen to the propaganda of the Brits. Honourable members of this House will be familiar with that propaganda or, if they have not heard it, will understand it readily. The old Anglo-Saxon smoothies of the northern hemisphere have been too fond of whispering in the ears of New Zealanders just how uncouth and brash we are and how we should be left alone. This has left its mark on those strong Anglophiles of that other part of Australasia. 
I am getting away from my point. The point is that Australia-New Zealand relations have to be worked at - not neglected as they have been until recently. The fact is that to date far too much emphasis has been put on trade. Here, we in Australia have nothing of which to be ashamed. In March of this year when the New Zealand Minister for Trade- and Industry,  Mr Freer,  and the Australian Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  reviewed the progress of the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement at a meeting in Wellington they reached agreement on retaining tariff preference by each country to the other. The need for this review arose out of the dismantling of the British preferential tariff system by both countries. The main basis of the Agreement was that Australia would preserve for New Zealand a margin of preference of 15 per cent in the Australian tariff while New Zealand accorded Australia a similar reciprocal benefit but only to the extent of a 10 per cent preference. This arrangement is one that should give a boost to New Zealand's trade with Australia. 
The trade relationships in themselves are not enough. The long and short of it are that there are over 2,000 items on the customs schedules which permit New Zealand goods to come into Australia free. In all, there are over 2,600 items on which a rate of 10 per cent or less applies to New Zealand goods and only about 540 which incur a rate of more than 10 per cent. I repeat that this trade relationship in itself is not enough. The NAFTA relationship has been in the doldrums. It has been somewhat short of real progress. There was a real opportunity at the talks at Wairakei in September between businessmen and government officials from both countries. That opportunity was grabbed by the New Zealanders who have opened their borders to a marked extent, as long as Australian traders have been given the time to take advantage of these opportunities. But more than that is needed. I was delighted to learn from New Zealand's Prime Minister,  Mr Kirk,  while I was in New Zealand, that he is reviving his ideas of a few years ago of Australian and New Zealand parliamentarians and perhaps other parliamentarians, Ministers and backbenchers, getting together regularly. Bolder political decisions for our mutual benefit will certainly have to be made when we learn more about each other. The Prime Minister's idea was that the Nordic Council in Europe should be used as a model. One necessary addition is that we ought to commission now a joint economic study by our Public Service and economic research institutes as a background paper for this meeting of parliamentarians. They will then be able to make the important decisions for a significant leap forward iri cooperation in our region, to our mutual benefit. Australia-New Zealand relations need a big leap forward. This will come only from political decisions of courage. Such political decisions will be made if we know each other better. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Prime Minister noted that both the Minister for Labour and myself advocated fortuitously in different parts of the country at the same time yesterday - I admit without any prior consultation - consideration of the reintroduction of quarterly cost of living adjustments? Is it a fact that if these quarterly adjustments are to be reintroduced by legislation then a 'yes' vote would be needed for the incomes question in the referendum to be held on 8 December? Has the Prime Minister noted the excellent antiinflationary effect of such a policy, for instance in Belgium? 
On behalf of the Joint Committee on Prices I bring up the Committee's report on the import prices inquiry - Price Effects of Currency Changes, Report No. 1 - together with minutes of proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- This report on import prices - Report No. 1  -  which has just been tabled is the second report presented to the Parliament by the Joint Committee on Prices. It is the first in a series of reports on this particular reference. As background, I draw the attention of honourable members to the complex nature of this particular inquiry. The Committee faced difficulties in its investigations by the lack of appropriate statistical information. There is no genuine import price index, nor is there other statistical information on import prices collected on a cost, insurance and freight (c.i.f.) basis similar to that which is available in some other countries. Furthermore, changes in selling prices in Australia of imported goods cannot be obtained from the information collected for the compilation of the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics consumer price index and wholesale price indexes. There is, therefore, no overall measure of the effect of revaluation or of other changes in landed costs on the selling prices of imported goods. This is a matter on which the Committee proposes to comment in a later report on this reference. Because of this absence of adequate statistical information the Committee had to pursue a commodity by commodity investigation to find out whether reductions in landed costs had been passed on to the consumer or user. The commodities and services covered in Report No. 1 are inward freight rates, tyres and tubes, timber and pharmaceutical products. 
Due to pressure of business in this House today, as I note from the blue paper, I shall not occupy the time of the House be reading all of the statement that I have prepared. The statement will be distributed to honourable members. One important finding of the Committee, which is argued in the statement as well as in the report, is that, against the background of continuing world inflation, upvaluation of the Australian dollar has restrained the increase in import prices. In other words, these import prices would have been significantly higher without upvaluation. 
I turn now to the individual commodities and services covered by this particular report. Firstly, concerning inward freight, the Committee recommends that the Australian Government: 
obtains details of the currency adjustment factor (c.a.f .) scheme as it operates overseas; and 
endeavours to find out whether the application of the c.a.f. has enabled overseas shipowners to take advantage of the currency changes to obtain larger profits. 
Secondly, concerning the import of tyres and tubes into Australia, the Committee finds that reductions in the landed costs of these imports are being passed on to the consumer and user because of competitive market conditions at home and abroad. Thirdly, concerning the imports of timber, the Committee found that there are restrictive practices of suggesting prices and profit margins in the timber industry and that these practices could reduce any advantage gained from upvaluation. The Committee therefore recommends that these practices be investigated by the relevant authority. Furthermore, the Committee found that export prices of timber have increased rapidly because of world shortages with the result that landed costs have also increased despite upvaluation. However, the evidence indicates that since in boom conditions exporters would not sell under the market price, upvaluation has assisted in restraining increases which would have been greater had there been no upvaluation. 
Lastly, concerning pharmaceutical products, once again I will not read all of my statement but will say simply that the Committee recommends that the Australian Government should negotiate with the United Kingdom companies that export intal, lyndiol and ovostat with a view to recouping some of the benefits lost to this country at the time of upvaluation. The Committee also recommends that the National Health Act be amended to make it mandatory for companies to provide the Department of Health cost and financial information in respect of products in the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. 
These, then, are the major findings and recommendations of the Committee in its first report on import prices. As I mentioned earlier, further reports on specific commodities will be tabled from time to time. I understand that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  will move that the report be noted and that the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  will be making a statement indicating where he disagrees with one or two of the Committee's findings. So at this stage I merely commend the report to the House. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  - by leave - proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
My question without notice is addressed to the Prime Minister, and it is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Kingston concerning the tragic famine in Ethiopia. Is it a fact that the need in Ethiopia is not only for food and drugs but also for medical expertise? Does the Prime Minister know that at least 15 finalyear medical students in South Australia who are awaiting their examination results have made offers, through me, to go immediately to Ethiopia until they are due to take up their hospital appointments in the new year? Will the Prime Minister do what he can to facilitate the examination of this offer in the hope that such help can be used? 
As  Chairman  of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices and as the person who was responsible for moving the motion that put this matter in the hands of the Privileges Committee, I thank the Committee for the job it has done. Naturally, I have read the Committee's report from cover to cover with great interest, and I endorse entirely not only the words of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  but also the reasonable words of the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  who was, of course,  Chairman  of the Privileges Committee when his Party was in government. I agree with him in particular that the main culprit - the choice of the adjective 'main' is mine - was certainly the person who showed this report to  Mr O'Reilly,  the senior reporter of the Sydney 'Sun'. I cannot see any advantage that would have been gained by any member of the Committee giving this report to  Mr O'Reilly.  I have to agree with the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  that I heard nothing in his remarks that reflected on any officers of the Committee or officers of the Parliament. I believe that this was a misunderstanding on the part of the honourable member for Corio. 
However, having said that I must say also that I believe the honourable member for Gippsland has been guilty of rather debasing this debate by making allegations about the wider distribution of the report of the Privileges Committee. If I have read correctly the evidence given, I think I was the only member of the Prices Committee, of which I was  Chairman,  to appear before the Privileges Committee. I say to this House, as I said openly, honestly and truthfully, to the Privileges Committee - even though the transcript has not been tabled - and I have not seen it, obviously the honourable member for Gippsland has heard of what was said - I went for personal advice outside the Committee itself. I believe that this is something that is done on every committee, and by every member of every committee. I say that because I was a member of the sub-committee that looked into the matter under investigation, but I had particular responsibilities as  Chairman  of the Committee looking at the recommendations of the subcommittee in a short space of time. 
I believe it is something that every normal person would agree is the normal thing to do. I think every member of the Privileges Committee realises from the evidence that I gave truthfully, honestly and openly to them, that in seeking that personal advice, the circumstances were such that this could not have been responsible for the leaking of the recommendations of the Prices Committee. I repeat, I am happy to say this to the Parliament as I said it to the Committee, and I regret that the honourable member for Gippsland has used this occasion to try to make that sort of implication. 
There are 2 lessons to be learnt from this report. One is that as members of Parliament we must all look at the security of our documents. We must look also at the security of our offices. I have learnt only recently that some honourable members lock their offices and I think that this is something that should be commended to all honourable members. It is something that I shall certainly take into consideration henceforward in the stewardship of the documents that I have before me. The other thing to be learnt is that the members of the Press Gallery in this Parliament have responsibilities also. They are given privileges, but they have responsibilities too, and one of the great results which I hope will come from this Privileges Committee report is that those responsibilities will be highlighted. 
If I have read the report correctly,  Mr O'Reilly  stated in evidence that he was not aware of the position at the time. I trust that he is now aware of it, and that all his colleagues are aware of their responsibilities in these matters. These are the positive achievements of the Privileges Committee. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Minerals and Energy I, in a contradistinction to the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  am delighted that such a department exists. I congratulate the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  and all who work with and for him for their many achievements through the Minister's 1 1 months of stewardship. One of the many and great achievements of the Australian Labor Government is that at last we have some planning in this vital sphere of our minerals and energy resources. No plans previously existed, and the honourable member for Farrer is, to a large extent, responsible for that. The world has an energy crisis. Recent news has indicated that Australia's great overseas airline, Qantas Airways Ltd, is cutting its services to the west coast of America. Why? Because there is a shortage of fuel. We read that Belgium is the second European country to ban Sunday driving. Why? Because there is an acute shortage of fuel. That is just recent news and there has been more of that sort today. Yet when our Government took over the reins of power in this country 11 months ago there were no plans. As I understand it, there was not even an inventory of our resources. One would think from this that there was no national interest. It was incredible. Money was pouring into this country from foreigners buying up our precious national assets without anyone being being given an inkling of what might be the priorities of Australians. Under the Liberals and the Country Party we were lying back and enjoying what was happening to us, which was a form of rape. That was the heritage of the Australian Labor Government and, in particular, of our Minister. 
We on this side of the chamber are people who believe in planning, not in the ad hocery of the Liberal-Country Party Government past. It has no right whatsoever to criticise, as the honourable member for Farrer did today. That Coalition left a vacuum in policies in the field of minerals and energy. We are perfectionists. We want, for instance, to see the Bureau of Mineral Resources as one of the great areas of government in a country like ours gathering all the facts and figures for the benefit of policy making which it is possible to gather. I hope these estimates cover that need. We want to see the Minister using those facts and figures in arriving at the correct decisions - in public - as part of open government. We want to see him with adequate staff. Of course, he needs to build up the staff and resources of his Department to do the things which he is doing and which he wants to do. Some criticism was made in relation to this only last week by, I believe, a member of the Country Party. There will need to be new staff because the jobs have not been done hitherto. Our political opponents - our predecessors in office - did not arrange to do this vital work, I suspect that these estimates do not provide all the answers. I suspect that the Minister needs to win a few more battles with the Public Service Board in order to be able to do the work which he has set for himself and which his colleagues have set for him. 
Let me come to some of that work. I would sum up our Australian Labor Government policies in the minerals and energy field as follows: Firstly, optimism of Australian equity and control in the production, processing and sale of minerals and mineral products; secondly, the rationalisation of production, that is, conservation of raw materials; thirdly, the rationalisation and conservation of energy resources. The Minister had more to say about that during question time a week ago. The area where there has yet to be, in my opinion, more to be said - I am sure that the Minister will agree with this - is in respect of the dis covery of new resources. I recognise - I know that the Minister recognises - that there will have to be more guidelines when he has got the necessary facts. We must not throw out the baby with the bath water and we do not intend to do so. Exploration is needed. I shall give some of my guidelines in relation to this a little later. 
Firstly, let me make some comments on those areas in which our policy is clear. The first point is that the minerals and energy industries have no parallel in any other industry in that they are each based on a resource which can only be discovered at high financial risk and at very great expense. The second point is that Australia does not have available in the indigenous private sector all the high risk funds necessary for successful exploration. I believe that more thought will be given to the way in which Government funds are to be used in this area. Certainly the previous Government used public funds by means of taxation concessions and subsidies. I understand that $49m was used last year in this way and that $41 6m has been used over the last 20 years. I have my own personal doubts as to whether public funds ought to be used in these risk areas. It depends how they are used. Certainly our predecessors used public funds wrongly. What I do know is that the Liberal and Country Party Opposition in the Senate is putting in danger the Australian Labor Government's attempts to harness savings in Australia by means of updating the Australian Industry Development Corporation. It would seem that the Liberal-Country Party Coalition with the help of the Australian Democratic Labor Party is going to throw this proposal out when a harnessing of savings is sorely needed. 
My third point, which I think needs to be made, is that foreign risk money is available and is only waiting for clear-cut rules to be laid down. Foreign companies are accustomed to the requirements that local equity is a condition of mineral development. In some cases they are at present unable to find out the required proportion of equity although we do know that once production is undertaken we want Australians to own at least 51 per cent. These sorts of questions will await the introduction of the Bill relating to the fuel and energy authority. My fourth point is that there seems to be no reason why we should not welcome foreign risk capital. In my view 99 per cent of it will be lost, and what better country to lose it in than ours? Provided that once a discovery is made, the development of it is subject to predetermined Australian equity interest - I have already mentioned 51 per cent - there is, in my opinion, no risk in allowing foreign control; as long as we have 51 per cent margin over it or more if possible. 
My fifth point is that we have to realise that minerals are discovered only after great financial and physical effort. We cannot change the rules after discoveries have been made, and that is why the Minister has been very careful to lay down rules. A change in the rules is not only inequitable to those who have laid out their money at risk, it is also disastrous so far as any further exploration effort is concerned. Although so much risk capital is lost, it is true that there is a direct relationship between the amount of successful discoveries and the amount of risk capital invested. That is why we need that risk capital. A minerals and energy policy requires a very subtle balance between the need to maximise Australian interest, conserve presently known resources and encourage the discovery of new ones. My last point is that the Government will achieve all of its policy objectives with the energetic help of the Australian mineral and petroleum industries. I know that this Government can and will consult with the industry on how best to achieve these objectives. Today's issue of the 'Australian' carries a supplement which shows very encouraging signs of the industry's response. 
Let me come back to that area of mineral exploration where I suggested that the guidelines are not yet sufficiently clear. Let me put forward my suggestions about those guidelines. Firstly, the Government is anxious to compile a reasonably accurate inventory of its raw material resources. This should have been done years ago but our present Government is now doing this. In the case of some raw materials such as iron, aluminium and coal, the reserves are so large that there is no point in further exploration expeditions, in my belief. In other cases, the Government should, in my view, require that Australia's 30-years requirements be reserved. Perhaps it should be 20 or 40 years but I am suggesting 30 years. Under my guidelines the Government would normally issue permits for exports only for any excess beyond that reserve figure of 30 years. 
Another policy suggestion from me is that I recognise that the Government is anxious to encourage exploration of Australia's mineral resources and welcomes expeditions for this purpose from any source. It especially welcomes joint venture operations with Australian companies. However, the Government makes it clear that Australian equity, both in shareholding and in management, must predominate in any production arrangements. I mentioned that earlier in my speech. My third suggestion is that the Government might believe that because of the intrinsic material value of Australia's raw materials it is appropriate and desirable that it should participate directly in all phases of the industry, including exploration and financing. However, it might prefer to undertake the geological and geophysical surveys which are basic to all earth science developments and to encourage detailed exploration by the private sector. Nevertheless, in my view the Government should reserve the right in the national interest to buy an equity position in any discovery, either by outright reimbursement of part of the exploration costs or by sharing in the development program. 
I congratulate the Minister on what has been achieved. I know that Rome was not built in a day - he knows that as well as I do - and that much more has yet to be done. Thank goodness we have a department and an energetic Minister like the ones that we have to get on with the job of finding a solution to these problems in the interests of Australia. I condemn the previous Government for leaving this vacuum which the Minister has had to fill. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I have been grievously misrepresented by the honourable member for Angas. At least 3 times during bis speech he mentioned the honourable member for Adelaide in some context. I cannot believe that he meant me. 
Let me continue. At one stage- 
As my name was mentioned it will appear in Hansard and as; I was accused of having a voracious appetite for taxes do you think,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that honour has been done now that the honourable member for Angas has apologised? 
I wish to direct a question without notice to the Minister for Overseas Trade. Is it a fact that the Australian 
Industry Development Corporation would be well set up, if and when the Australian Labor Government's amendments to its Act are passed by both Houses of this Parliament, to assist any winemaking companies with a liquidity problem? It is a fact also that such a liquidity problem may arise in some companies as the $15m deferred taxes are collected over the next 5 years? Further, is it a fact that this excellent prospect of assistance to the South Australian winemaking industry is now put in jeopardy because of the irresponsible actions of the Opposition majority in the Senate in failing to pass the Government's amendments to the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act? 
On behalf of the Joint Committee on Prices I bring up the Committee's report on the price of carpet tiles together with minutes of the proceedings taken in connection with this inquiry. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave to make a short statement in connection with this report. 
The matter of public importance which has been raised by the Opposition is an absurd one and it is born out of hypocrisy. There is nothing which more clearly tells us that than the speech of the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke).  If ever we have heard complacency and the attitude of 'I am all right Jack, I have got 2 caravans in my garage and the rest of the country can suffer the inflation that it has been suffering', it was in the speech of the honourable member for Petrie. Why have the people been suffering from inflation? It is because of the policies of the previous Government. We have only to look at the way that foreign investment funds were flowing into this country up until a year ago. About $2,000m was coming in annually. We have only to look at the rate of increase in the money supply in this country. It was because of such policies that the Government implemented the upward revaluation of the Australian dollar, the tariff cuts and other measures it has had to use which are now working. The policy of the previous Government was to create massive unemployment, so that 130,000 people were unemployed in 1972. These things rose out of the sort of policies the previous Government inflicted on this country. Yet honourable members opposite have raised in the House today this matter of public importance. The only way I can sum it up is to say that it is born out of hypocrisy. Honourable members opposite want a stop-go, stop-go policy. They talk about cutting government expenditure but they never tell us where government expenditure should be cut except that they are now giving us an example in relation to education. Honourable members opposite do not like what I have to say because it hurts. (Quorum formed) 
These are the usual puerile tricks of the Opposition. This matter of public importance has been raised by the Opposition. This is the matter honourable members opposite want the House to debate and yet when they start to hear a few home truths about the mess they have made of this country and the mess they have made of trying to cure inflation in this country, all they do is sit one down by calling a quorum, when one's colleagues are working hard in committees. However, I have a quorum here now and I will continue by drawing attention to a letter from 16 professors of economics in this country and what they had to say. There is no need for me to use a personal argument when I can use an argument drawn up by people who are in a completely independent position. There are not 12 economists; there are 16 economists. Every State in this country is represented by the 16 economists who wrote the letter. The letter states: 
We the undersigned professors of economicsat Australian universities - - 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on Prices, I bring up the Committee's report on the price of meatmeal together with the minutes of proceedings taken in connection with this inquiry. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question which is supplementary to that just asked by the Deputy Leader of the Australian Country Party. Is it not a fact that State parliaments already have the constitutional power to control prices but that to implement price control the State parliaments must assert their power by passing appropriate legislation? Similarly, will the Prime Minister reaffirm that a Yes vote on prices in Saturday's referendum will not itself impose national price control on any goods and services? Will be remind the Australian people that even after the referendum is carried, despite the deception by people handing out how to vote cards on behalf of but not in the name of the Liberal and Country Parties, no item will be subject to price control until appropriate legislation is subsequently passed by both Houses of this Australian Parliament? 
-by leave - The report on the price of meatmeal which has just been tabled is the 4th report presented to Parliament by the Joint Committee on Prices. The inquiry into the price of meatmeal is the second inquiry by the Committee into complaints received from the public. Meatmeal, together with other protein meals such as fishmeal and oilseed meal, is an important input  in  the production of pig meat, poultry meat and eggs. In the period September 1972 to August 1973 the price of meatmeal increased by nearly 200 per cent. Such increases contributed to increases in the price of eggs, poultry meat and pig meat. 
The main cause of the increases in the domestic prices of meatmeal was the rapid increases in export prices because of world shortages - yet another example of the fact that we are, to such a large extent, importing inflation. The Committee also found that the extent of the increases in domestic meatmeal prices was influenced by the practice of some meatmeal manufacturers consulting on the establishment of list prices for the industry. This practice has resulted in prices being higher than those established under more competitive conditions. The Committee has therefore recommended that this matter be brought to the attention of the Commissioner of Trade Practices by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy). 
The Department of Primary Industry has power to control exports of protein meals under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations. The Department intensified its supervision of exports of all protein meals in 1973. Domestic users told the Committee that despite this surveillance by the Department, it was difficult at times, and in certain locations, to obtain supplies. Exports of protein meal increased by 60 per cent between 1971-72 and 1972-73 while total supplies of protein meal available to the local market fell by almost 10 per cent. Apparent local sales of meatmeal fell by 4 per cent. 
The Committee has therefore recommended that the power of the Austraiian Government to regulate the export of meatmeal be applied more stringently, not only to ensure that the domestic market has priority in the use of available supplies, but also as a means of reducing and stabilising the price of meatmeal. I commend the report to the House. 
This is a sad and depressing day for Australia. The fact is that the people have to learn from the mouthpieces of business that it is only the Australian Labor Party which will support a worthwhile piece of public enterprise in Australia. I wish that I had had time to look up the history of the formation of the Commonwealth Bank in the days of Andrew Fisher. I believe that that was probably established with Labor majorities both in this House and in the Senate. I wish that I had had time to look up details of the formation of the Australian National Airlines Commission and of Trans-Australia Airlines. Possibly they also were established only by Labor without the support of the Opposition. Probably the same may be said of Qantas and other such bodies. 
However, the Australian Country Party, at least, in the past has had some men of vision, some good Australians, who made sure that these pieces of public enterprise remained and were not dismantled as a previous Australian asset in the oil field - the 50 per cent ownership of the Australian people in Commonwealth Oil Refineries - was dismantled in 1952 by the Menzies' Government. I could continue with a list of occasions when valuable Australian assets have been squandered by the mouthpieces of business in this House. It has all been a tremendous loss to the Australian community. Today we have here an opportunity for an Australian enterprise to be set up on behalf of the Australian people for some wonderful purposes. One of them is to see that the very valuable field of minerals and energy is left, to the greatest extent possible, in the hands of the Australian community and not just in the hands of those who are motivated by private profit - in some cases, people abroad who are motivated only by private profit, not even people in Australia. 
What do we find? No real arguments have been put up against this legislation. The emotional word 'socialism' has been thrown around this chamber without any attempt by the people using it to try to understand the meaning of the word. In using this word the members of the Opposition hope that it will conjure up some adverse reaction in some minds and, indeed, this is what it does in the minds of those who do not think or read about these matters. 'Socialism' for me means a state of affairs where decisions are made for the social ' good - the -community good - instead of being promoted, stimulated and encouraged only by private profit motives. 
I do not believe that the rate of interest alone should be the arbitrator of all that is done in Australia. I am not against a rate of profit being earned by those in the private sector of the community who have a legitimate right to earn it, but of course there is a real need in Australia for more decision making to be made on criteria other than interest rates. This is what this legislation will provide in the important area of minerals and energy. 'Social' is a good word and so is 'socialism'. I will not be frightened out of using the word by those who are ignorant of it. We want to set up structures in Australia which will result in the decisions relating to this great field of minerals and energy resources being to the largest extent possible motivated by the community good, not the good of some private shareholder or some multi-national corporation although, as I have said before and I will say again, there is a large place for the private sector of the community in the whole of this field. But at the moment we have no area in this field where the Government sector - the representatives of the people and the national interest - is involved in decision making. I repeat that the rectification of such a position is precisely why the Fuel ad Energy Authority Bill has been drafted. 
I want to remind honourable members of the second reading speech of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  when he introduced this Bill. He quoted to a great extent what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had said in Japan on foreign ownership and control when he outlined very clearly that there is so much left to be done by the private sector. It is not squeezed out by any manner of means. Even overseas companies have a part to play in this field. Let us look 'back at the position as it has been under the Liberal Party and Country Party. The fact is that up to the end of 1971, of a total of $843m expended on petroleum exploration, more than $4 19m was made available from the public purse. This fact is conveniently overlooked. 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  who preceded me, in the course of his remarks almost said: 'Where is the money coming from?' Good heavens. I repeat the figures: To the end of 1971 taxpayers funds to the extent of $4 19m came from the public purse and were expended on petroleum exploration. We do not have to look elsewhere for taxpayers funds in order to finance our Fuel and Energy Authority. The money is already being collected but it is being channelled to private funds. This $41 9m consists of $174m of oil search subsidy payments by the Federal and State governments and the cost to revenue of taxation concessions to the petroleum industry not hitherto published. The estimated cost of the concessions to shareholders, under sections 77a, 77d, 77c and section 78 of the Income Tax Assessment Act in respect of the contribution of share capital to the petroleum exploration companies, for the period from 1958 to 1971, is $1 10m. 
The estimated cost of past and future tax exempt dividends, payable by companies which are currently producing petroleum products is an additional $43m. The estimated cost of the special deductions allowed in the period 1966 to 1971 and of the entitlement to future deductions for capital expenditure on exploration by companies which have discovered petroleum is $92m. Thus, to date, the total of taxation concessions granted or available is $245m. These figures do not take into account the cost of potential deductions available to those companies which are not yet producing petroleum or natural gas, but will undoubtedly do so. In aggregate, the contribution of public revenue to oil and natural gas exploration to the end of 1971 is, I repeat, $4 19m or approximately 50 per cent of the total amount expended on oil exploration in Australia. 
Here is the scandal: Not one single share has been made available to the Australian Government in return for this huge $419m subsidy. In addition, the free information given by the Australian Bureau of Mineral Resources - information which was mentioned by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  - has been responsible for .the remarkably rapid success of many mining companies, without the slightest recompense or charge to those mining companies. All this has been provided from taxpayers' funds directly subsidising the pockets of those lucky shareholders who are receivers of it. So we have the introduction to this Parliament of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill which will recycle into petroleum and minerals exploration the moneys which were, in many cases, going to the wrong companies by way of concessions provided under section 77 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. This Authority will also, as from 30 June next when the present Petroleum Search Subsidy- Act expires, be responsible for the expenditure of such moneys. 
The legislation also provides for the Authority to act in partnership with other companies either to accept farm-ins or to let out Australian exploration areas on a partnership basis to companies with the necessary technology. I mentioned 'wrong companies'. To a tremendous extent, the funds of taxpayers - the hard earned funds of individuals - in this country have been going to large multinational corporations. If this Authority is established, we will be able to channel these funds into smaller Australian companies which need them to a far greater extent. No need will exist to subsidise the larger multi-national corporations which still will be able to continue to operate their leases until the terms of those leases run out. 
One of the worst features of the present Petroleum Search Subsidy Act has been the extent to which major overseas oil companies operating in Australia have been the recipients of petroleum exploration funds which, fairly, should have gone to smaller Australian search companies. It is interesting that one hears interjections from members of the Liberal and Country Parties when one talks in this way. Are they not interested in these important Australian assets being owned by Australians? Are they not interested in the Australian Government stimulating such investment by Australians? 
This Authority will set up the structures not only for public ownership of certain of these areas but also will seek to stimulate private ownership in these areas. It is ridiculous for leaders of the Country Party or spokesmen for the Liberal Party, like the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  to come into this House and merely throw emotional words such as 'socialism' around the place without looking at the real purpose of this legislation - the Australian purpose of this Bill - which seeks to ensure that Australians will benefit from Australia's natural resources.- I contrast this objective with the squandering of $4 19m by past Liberal and Country Party governments. The Liberal and Country Parties must, be the last bastions of conservatism in the world. . 
Let us consider those countries which are involved through public enterprises in the field of minerals and energy. The Government of the United Kingdom, as we have heard, has a 50 per cent share in the British Petroleum Co. Other countries which have an involvement of this type are France, Italy - I ask honourable members to think of the ENI company of Italy through which the Italian Government has an involvement in this field; and Italy is not known to be a socialist country such as are those behind the Iron Curtain - Norway, Canada, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Iran, Iraq, India, Japan, Indonesia, the Philippines and even our closest neighbour, New Zealand. Yet we find that the conservatives of this country lined up on the benches opposite put forward these erroneous arguments when we attempt to introduce this form of enterprise to this country. They say they oppose every concept in the Bill. As the honourable member for Blaxland has said, we will be happy to go to the Australian people to show just how Australian in outlook members opposite are in opposing the concepts of this Bill. 
The honourable member for Farrer displayed rudeness when speaking about the Launceston Conference of the Australian Labor Party. We make no apology for the way in which our decisions are arrived at. The Platform of our Party, setting out our decisions in respect of this matter, is available for everyone. Let us look at the platform resulting from the decisions of the Launceston Conference of the Australian Labor Party. One of the excuses made by the honourable member for Farrer for the Opposition not supporting this Bill was that the Prime Minister did not have some specific sentence in his policy speech about it. But the platform of the Labor Party determined by the Launceston Conference in 1971 contained the policy which prevailed during the election which took place on 2 December 1972. That platform, which was available to everybody, set out clearly for the whole nation the policy intended to be followed by the Australian Labor Party. I quote from page 16 of that document which, under the heading 'Mineral Resources', states: 
the comprehensive development under Government control of Australia's mineral resources with emphasis on the need for discovery of new deposits and the direct Commonwealth and State participation in oil and mineral search and exploration throughout Australian land and off-shore territory. 
Under the heading 'Fuel and Energy', the Platform provides: 
Labor will establish a joint Federal/State Fuel and Energy Commission- 
This was later changed to meet constitutional requirements and we propose to set that body up through this Parliament. We hope to get State participation in this proposal. I cannot believe that State parliamentarians, even Liberal and Country Party State parliamentarians, will be so small in their Australianism that they will not support the concept of this Bill. Our policy provides for that Commission:  to devise and implement an integrated and co-ordinated national fuel and energy policy. 
The commission will 
regulate the exploration, development, transportation, marketing and the use of oil, natural gas, coal, fissionable materials and generative water, 
prevent depletion of fuel and energy resources needed to match Australian requirements in mineral processing, general industry and national development, and 
guard the ecology and environment from pollution by fuel extraction and energy generation. 
Later, again under the heading 'Fuel and Energy' - and this policy was available for all Australia to see at the time of the last House of Representatives election; yet Opposition members put up the spurious argument that these matters were not in our policy speech - the Platform provides: 
Labor will work for the enrichment of Australian uranium resources in plants which are located in Australia and which have at least a majority Australian control of equity and policy. 
That is the policy worked out by the due processes of the Labor Party, from the grassroots. It is a policy on which we are proud to fight elections and for which we have a mandate. This Bill sets out, as the culmination of that mandate, to implement that policy. There is no apology from me or from any of my colleagues for the way that we have put that policy to the people. The people have supported us. We bring this Bill before the Parliament so that that policy may be consummated. 
The Leader of the Country Party unfortunately had not done sufficient homework even to recognise that an important amendment will be incorporated in this legislation. I am not ashamed to say that I - I suppose more than anybody else - am responsible for that amendment. I am grateful for the wholehearted support of the Minister for Minerals and Energy and also to my colleagues in the parliamentary Labor Party for agreeing to this amendment. It is proposed, as those who, unlike the Leader of the Country Party, have done their homework will know, that the  Chairman  of the Authority will be a full-time  Chairman.  I have great hopes that this man will be one cf the top mining men in this country. This job will be a great and important one. 
I thank the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who is seeking to interject, for reminding me that as a result of a number of consultations that I have had with top mining people in Australia I know that they are wholeheartedly behind a concept of this type. I am. not referring merely to the fact that the  Chairman  of the Authority should be a full-time  Chairman  and a man with mining experience but to the concept of this Bill which seeks tq ensure that Australia's national interest isproperly served. These people realise that there is still a large part to be played by the private sector in this area. They realise also the scandal of the expenditure of $4 19m of taxpayers' funds in this industry with not one share of ownership in our resources belonging to the Australian people. They recognise that structures similar to that proposed by this legislation exist in every other comparable country. I have listed the number of countries in which this sort of public structure already exists. 
In conclusion I point out that we do have an energy crisis. We do have a Government which, fortunately, is planning, and has planned, for that crisis. But it is important that we have a fuel and energy authority to be the structure to be responsible for the Australian national interest in the whole of this field. I am proud to have taken part in this debate. I expect, from what we have heard already from the mouthpieces of business, that this Bill will have problems in the Senate. But it will be to the shame of the Liberal and Country Parties if these problems do raise their ugly heads in the Senate. I will be proud to go out on to the hustings to tell the Australian people that $4 19m of their funds has been squandered without one share being offered to them and that when we attempted to do something about that situation by way of the Bill now before us the mouthpieces of business stopped us from doing so. 
The Minister for Defence will have noted that Admiral Peek, who recently retired as Chief of the Naval Staff, has even more recently criticised the Government's strategic assessment, particularly the assessment that there is little threat to Australia for the next 10 to 15 years. My question is: Where was Admiral Peek when this assessment was made? Was the assessment made against the Admiral's opposition? 
The Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has given way to me tonight because I have a statement to make relating to charges made against me personally in the South Australian House of Assembly, so he is not here to answer the extraordinary charges of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald 
Cameron). On Tuesday, 26 February, behind the cloak of parliamentary privilege in the South Australian House of Assembly,  Mr R.  Hall, M.P., who heads the Liberal Movement there, made allegations concerning the standard of auditing of recent financial statements of the Storemen and Packers Union, South Australian Branch, conducted by my firm, C. J. Hurford and Co., Chartered Accountants.  His  language was so outrageous as to include the words 'deliberately covered up the facts of the misappropriation of money that took place in that union's affairs', and 'the firm of C. J. Hurford and Co. should be delicensed'. 
The cowardly character of this baseless charge is witnessed by the fact that  Mr Hall  has refused to repeat the damaging words in public so that I can clear my name through the courts. As I returned from a study tour of North America only on the day the attack was made, I am reminded vividly of problems there.  Mr Hall's  standards are the same as those of the persons who perpetrated the Watergate evils. They may be summarised as through enough dirt, act sufficiently excessively, do not worry about the truth and public morality - all that matters is political gain'. These are standards of the gutter and should not be tolerated here. 
As the sole principal of C. J. Hurford and Co., I accept the responsibility for the conduct of the audits of the Storeman and Packers financial statements, including the actions of the persons entrusted by me to undertake the detailed audit work and its supervision. I assert that the audits were conducted without . fear or favour, with due diligence and professional skill and that in no way was my firm or its employees professionally or in any other way negligent. Indeed I believe we went well beyond the normal calls of duty in order to achieve satisfactory standards. 
My firm was called in as auditors of the Storemen and Packers Union, South Australian Branch, in August 1972  -  not in May 1972 as alleged by  Mr Hall  in his inaccurate statement. Already the inadequacy of the bookkeeping was well known. The previous auditor,  Mr J.  Richards, chartered accountant, had stated the facts in his reports. The Federal Secretary of the Union,  Mr Jack  Petrie, had carried out a thorough personal examination in May 1972, and had reported his judgments. 
In August 1972 my firm was requested to undertake the specific task of preparing a receipts and payments statement to 30 June 1972, recording what did actually go into and come out of the branch's bank account and records. This was done. We were not given authority to draw up a balance sheet as at 30 June 1972, that is 2 months prior to our being called in, and this was said in our report. Balance sheets had not previously been prepared for this branch of this union, nor are they required by the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. However, to maintain our usual standards, my firm prepared and reported on a balance sheet as at 30 June 1973  -  the only financial year which has been fully under our control. 
From the day C. J. Hurford and Co. became auditors of this South Australian branch of this union, we brought to the attention of the branch committee at meetings and the members of the union in the published audit reports distributed at the annual meeting and posted on notice boards at every major work centre the inadequacies and irregularities in the accounts and records. Remedies were put into effect in January 1973 and we have not encountered problems since. To substantiate this, we need go no further than draw attention to the financial statements and auditors' reports themselves. The reports include the following statements: 
We have not conducted an audit of the union's assets and liabilities, nor members' records and do not report thereon. 
That was a report with receipts and payments statement for the 6 months ended 30 June 1972. Statements in the report with receipts and payments statement for the 6 months ended 31 December 1972 read: 
Internal control procedures covering cash receipts, as laid down, have not been carried out and accordingly we are unable to state whether the $16,257.92 members' contributions credited to the bank account represent all contributions actually collected from members. 
Internal control procedures covering cash payments, as laid down, have not been carried out, viz., that certain withdrawals of union funds have not been correctly authorised or supervised, nor is there sufficient documentary evidence to substantiate some of the expenditure. 
These two further statements were included in the report with the balance sheet as at 30 June 1973 and with the receipts and payments statement for the 12 months ended on that date. They read: 
Proper books of account were not kept during the period July to December 1972. 
We were unable to satisfy ourselves that all receipts and payments of the union for the period July-December 1972 have been correctly recorded. 
Any objective, unbiased, reasonable person will realise that these are not reports of a firm covering up any facts whatsoever. 
Behind the cloak of parliamentary privilege unsubstantiated charges were made by  Mr Hall  against  Mr J.  H. Doyle, who carried out the detailed work on this audit for my firm. They relate to what he is alleged to have said at branch committee meetings. They are utterly denied by  Mr Doyle  and are the subject of a separate statement prepared by him. If I do not get time to do so, I hope that my colleague, the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun),  will read  Mr Doyle's  statement. He is a most diligent man of integrity, has my utmost confidence and respect - so much so that I am seeking to hand over the few audits which are done by C. J. Hurford and Co. to him, due of course, to my lack of time and increasing responsibilities elsewhere. 
None of us associated with this audit are prepared to join  Mr Hall  in his unsubstantiated and thus irresponsible claims that there has been 'embezzlement and misappropriation of funds in that union'. My firm reported fully on unsatisfactory administrative procedures from the day we took over. We co-operated completely with a police investigation over 6 months ago. Whether a felony had been committed or whether the problem was due to inexperience and a lack of administrative training and ability had to be left to the judgment of those to whom the auditors report, namely the union members and their representatives on the branch management committee. The auditors reported fully and their clients made their judgment. 
If  Mr Hall  had confined his remarks to the need for union administrative training facilities and for possible alterations to Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Acts to bring their financial requirements in line with the Companies Acts, he would have been following me and my Labor colleagues in what we have been seeking to achieve. I personally, have spent hundreds and hundreds of hours of my spare time in promoting the Workers Educational Authority of South Australia, which has done much pioneering work in trade union education. I and my accounting colleagues have spent hundreds and hundreds of non-chargeable hours in improving the accounts and records of trade unions. The 
Labor Party in Federal and State spheres has made giant strides in the last few years in appropriating funds to improve trade union education facilities so that the working man may be helped, not hindered, and industrial peace may be facilitated. But there is not much publicity in this. We do, however, have the satisfaction of knowing that we have achieved something and have not used the despicable method of muddying the names of innocent persons for political purposes. 
I am glad to have been able to make this statement for the record, although I regret that the forms of the South Australian Parliament did not allow the State member for Adelaide to make this statement in the South Australian House of Assembly yesterday where it would have been better/ understood and also that the forms of this House have prevented me making this statement earlier. However, let it be known that I am also issuing this statement outside the Parliament. I do not need the protection of privileges. I stand behind each word and do not resort, as  Mr R.  Steele Hall, M.P., has resorted, to Watergatetype lies and excesses to achieve my political purpose. I hope that my colleague, the honourable member for Kingston, will have a few moments before the adjournment to read the statement from  Mr J.  H. Doyle. 
I was interested to hear the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  once more expound this extraordinary new found policy of the Opposition in relation to exchange rates. He did so in this short debate arising from the report of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  of the last Committee of Twenty meeting which took place in Rome. I say that this policy is extraordinary because we all know that when the Australian Labor Party took over in December 1972 it was faced with a crisis exchange rate position. It was faced with the position of money flowing into Australia at an enormous rate and Australia's balance of payments running in a very surplus form. Indeed, our currency was so undervalued that it almost was not true. We are today suffering from the aftermath of that situation. We are suffering from the poor financial leadership of the previous McMahon Liberal-Country Party Government. I think that this is pretty well recognised; even, it would seem, by some former Ministers in that Government. They are now turning a complete somersault and coming to the point of view that there ought to be more flexible exchange rates. 
I am not entering into the argument at the moment as to whether our exchange rate should be tied to the American dollar. I believe that it creates great administrative difficulty for a small country like Australia if its currency is not tied to some major currency. I believe this is the reason for the delay and I accept the difficulties which have been outlined, not just by spokesmen from the Opposition but also by people on this side of the House, in the time of changing exchange rates. But I am bound to point out once again the extraordinary metamorphosis that has taken place in the Opposition parties from the position where they should be condemned for the situation they created in the Australian exchange rate history arising at the time of the Smithsonian agreement, when I believe that probably the Australian Country Party wagged the Liberal Party tail. I should not be too harsh on the Liberal Party, but if it is prepared to take the Country Party into coalition it deserves what it gets from doing that. 
I shall not speak for long in this debate because I realise that there is a tremendous amount of business to transact in the House today and that spokesmen from the Opposition have been asked to curtail their speeches. But in the short time that I am debating this statement in the House I wish to place emphasis on the fact that Australia's inflationary problems are so much due to the international transmission of inflation. I believe that it is absolutely vital that our Treasurer should attend such meetings as he did in Rome. I congratulate him for reporting so promptly to this House after we resumed on what took place in Rome. I am glad to note - I think he has made this public, but if not I am sure he would confirm at the first opportunity - that he will be attending the next meeting of the Committee of Twenty in June. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition pointed out, at this meeting the Committee of Twenty will be terminated but only because it will convert itself into the Council of Twenty. The words contained in a Press release by the Treasurer at the time of the Rome conference emphasise how great is this international transmission of inflation and how great is this interdependence between the economies of the various countries. The Treasurer stated: 
In the last 25 years ... no single event has dramatised the interdependence of the world economically as what we currently call 'the oil problem*. 
I want to talk also about just how the interdependence occurs with inflation. There are 4 methods by which inflation is transmitted from one country to another. The first one is on current account. When one country, say, Australia expands its demand, then its imports increase. This of course places great strains on the countries from which the imports come, thereby increasing real demand in those other countries. This is one way in which we are so interdependent Another way is of course on the capital account When one country changes its interest rates this causes capital to flow. If it raises its interest rates, capital flows inwards. If it decreases its interest rate then capital flows outwards unless it has some other direct methods of controlling thai capital movement. This, of course, has a tremendous effect on the volume of liquidity of a country and has an effect on the inflation rate in that country. Then, in some countries, particularly where some countries are near each other such as in Europe, there are common wage claims which cross borders. So if there are tremendous wage claims in one country these are transmitted, particularly within the same industry, to another country. The fourth way in which inflation is transmitted is by means of what I call common sociological and other pressures in the various economies. What happens in one country very definitely affects what is happening in another. 
Arising from that point I want to say that it was the persistent and massive monetary expansion originating from the United States at the time of the deficit-financed escalation of the Vietnam war that has caused such a tremendous increase in inflation in the world. There is no doubt, if we want quickly to define inflation, that the simplest and most accurate definition is too much money chasing too few goods. This does not apply only within the borders of one's own country; it also applies in the international sphere. If there is too much liquidity internationally chasing a lack of goods and services representing that liquidity then there are problems in the world. It was because of deficit financing, I assert, in the United States that this international liquidity did grow at such a tremendous extent and has caused the sort of inflationary problems we are suffering today. In addition to that, there are cyclical changes which take place. The world economy becomes more buoyant and vice versa. If one studies economic history one can see these changes. Unfortunately, such a cycle has exacerbated the situation caused by this very great increase in international liquidity. 
The next point I wish to make arising from this is the effect of exchange rates, which brings me back to the statement of the Treasurer and the reason why the Committee of Twenty meets. The major link between prices across countries is the exchange rate. Breaking that link usually requires variation of the exchange rate. A rigid exchange rate tends to guarantee that a country shares in the broad trend of world prices. Countries may resist such trends by steady revaluation combined with a degree of monetary restraint. Attempting to resist world inflationary trends without revaluation causes the domestic currency to become overvalued and this then generates speculative inflow. The resulting increase of liquidity ultimately aggravates domestic inflation as firms and individuals take advantage of the abundance of credit and purchase additional goods, bigger and better houses and so on. That is precisely the situation that this country has suffered in 1973 and now in 1974, due to the lack of action on the part of the previous Government to regulate properly our exchange rates at the time of the Smithsonian Agreement - that was at the end of 1971. Instead we had to wait until we had a Labor Government in 1972. When it happened our political opponents yelled from the rooftops that this was going to cause tremendous disaster in this country. Now they have gone through such a metamorphosis - I repeat the word - that they believe that we ought even to untie our exchange rate from the United States rate and have more of a floating exchange rate. This is a complete change in attitude. Thank goodness a spell in opposition has done them some good, although it is hard to find any other areas where this applies. 
So to the meeting. There were 5 purposes set out by the Treasurer in his statement, which I will not repeat. It was an honest statement because he pointed out how the ball game has changed from that which applied at the meeting of the Committee of Twenty previous to the one in Rome. The old picture was one of the United States in deficit and Japan and Europe in surplus. Australia was in surplus. The Treasurer has said time and again, and he repeats this in the statement, how necessary it is for each of the individual countries to get their own house in order. A declaration of what sort of international value should be fixed for drawing rights, or SDRs, will not cure the international problems. We need to cure this problem in our own country. The Australian Labor Government can be proud that it did take measures to cure our own problems - our own chronic surpluses. We became a good neighbour for the rest of the world. We can now go to the Committee of Twenty meetings, hold our head up high and talk to these other nations in these important councils. If we are to do anything effectively about world inflation we need to hold our head high and say that we have done something about our own chronic problem when we upvalued our currency, indeed even when we cut our tariffs. We can implore others to do what we have done. We must declare, of course, that the United States did take measures as well which have borne fruit. 
So we have this new ball game. The picture in Rome was very different because the United States now has moved into surplus and Japan and Europe into deficit. The ball game has also been made very different because of the oil crisis. So the exchange rate adjustments become the means of reforming the world currency situation rather than the more institutionalised means. To use the Treasurer's words in his statement, there was a 'vindication of pragmatism in economic policy making'. I now come to the oil crisis and what that has caused. I am an optimist. I believe that although we cannot expect the prices of oil charged by the various Arab nations to be reduced in any way, the Arabs will, I hope, out of these surpluses help the underdeveloped countries. In the past it has been up to the Western nations to give aid of all sorts to the underdeveloped countries. Now the rich nations - the nations with the surpluses - will be the oil producing nations and they have a responsibility to help underdeveloped countries such as India and Pakistan which are not oil producing countries. 
I will not say more about the Rome meeting other than to repeat my congratulations to the Treasurer. I believe that we must ask the Press of this country to take a new look at the important meetings that are going on around the world instead of stirring up the emotionalism that exists among people who do not understand these affairs, such as stories about somebody taking yet another trip abroad. They should put the emphasis where it is due, and that is on the great importance of these international meetings. Nowhere is this clearer than in meetings of the Committee of Twenty and meetings of such bodies as the International Monetary Fund, because so many of our problems of high prices in this country are directly related to the world financial situation. So the world financial scene is a rapidly changing one, and co-operation based on consultation seems to have more chance of success than a policy based on the acceptance of a firm and detailed book of rules. So meetings such as the meeting of the Committee of Twenty have to be held. Of course, we must send our top financial men to such meetings. In this country the top financial man is the Treasurer, and he is the person who should attend the meetings. The Treasurer was at Rome. I am glad that he is to attend another meeting in June. I am glad that he has reported fully to this House. 
The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  in his closing words said something to the effect that he hoped the industry would not rue the day that it had agreed to the propositions contained in the Wool Industry Bill 19.4. I think the fact is that members of the Opposition parties, whether they are Australian Country Party members or Liberal Party members like the honourable member for Angas, do not give the rural industries of Australia and the people of those rural industries the credit which they deserve for being good Australians and for not just looking out for their own self interest. I am glad to have the opportunity to say that the whole essence of this Bill throws up the interdependence of the primary industry sector, the rural sector, on the one hand, and the rest of the community on the other. This is a clear example of the Australian Labor Government getting together with this great rural industry - the wool industry - and recognising its worth. I believe that a tragic myth has been allowed to grow up that this Government does not recognise this interdependence. We recognise it just as much as the rural people of this country recognise it. In my view it is a myth that must be killed. That is why I am glad to stand here and to seek to do so on this occasion. 
Certainly the Government has recognised that if we all are to increase our standard of living then change is necessary. People who live in the rural districts recognise just how great is the need for the changes. The changes not only relate to seasonal changes but also to market changes. I am pleased to have spent a great deal of my life in the rural areas. Indeed I spent much of my professional life before coming into this place as a chartered accountant looking after rural clients. I know their worries. Even though I represent a city seat I know their hopes and their worries very well. In fact, I reckon, although as I have said I represent an urban seat, that in this place I exemplify the interdependence of people who live in cities with those who live in the country, whether they are in the wool industry, the wheat industry or the barley industry of my own State of South Australia. My fortune, my income, has been very much, related to theirs. 
Because change is necessary it is good that we have a government that does not wait for change to take place before measures are taken. This has been the history of the previous Government from 1949 until 1972. That Government waited for change to take place and then acted belatedly. That is not the case with this Government. Changes have to take place if we are to increase the standard of living of everybody. The changes carried oat by this Government have been made across the board. There has been no discrimination one way or the other against rural industry or any other industry. Certainly I accept that the removal of the superphosphate bounty of course has hit the rural industries in particular. 
But this is not the only across the board subsidy that has been removed. 
Let me correct myself. Of course it has not been removed. The fact is that the previous Government wrote into the legislation that the bounty should be phased out by the end of this year and all the signs are that if the Opposition parties were in power they would be removing the same subsidy. I know,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that you want me to get back to the Bill. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)  - Very much so. The honourable member for Adelaide should know that we are at the Committee stage. 
I am being removed from the Bill,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  by interjections from members of the Country Party and to a lesser extent from members of the Liberal Party and I was forced to go chasing that hare. The fact is that this Bill does show the interdependence, and so do the clauses that we are debating during the Committee stage. I just wanted to make the point in passing that even though notice has been given that the superphosphate bounty is not going to be renewed, similar sorts of across the board input subsidies have been removed in other industries. I only have to point to the 25 per cent tariff cut or what has happened to the subsidies in regard to oil exploration. These are across the board decisions and they are consistent with other decsions taken by the Government. There is no discrimination against rural industries. These are measures which are taken in order to increase the standard of living of us all and to ensure that industry is not being propped up. I think that just as the rural people of this country will recognise this in the long run, even if in certain sectors they do not recognise it now because the opportunities for the message to get across are far and few between, so it is that they will recognise that rationality is behind the clauses of this Bill which we are discussing at the moment. 
Although I was unable to be in the House when the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  led for the Opposition on this Bill when making his second reading speech, I am pleased that he took a bi-partisan approach. I trust that he will adopt the same attitude if he speaks during the Committee stage. I have just had pointed out to me that a mem ber of the Country Party interjected that there will be more Forrest Places soon. I trust that this was not so. If it was so I hope that the member concerned will identify himself, because I believe that the great majority of farming people in this country totally reject what took place in Forrest Place. 
As I have said, this Bill does show the interdependence of city and country areas. Where the community interest is involved, the clauses of this Bill are written in such a way that the community pays three-quarters of the cost. Where there is less of the community interest involved and the industry itself is totally involved, in regard to the promotion side, the industry is involved in three-quarters of the cost. We have had too much of pork barrel politics, and I think that many people in the country recognise this. We have to get down to principles. We have to look at the total community. We have to look at the welfare of the total community. That is what this Government is doing. That is what this Bill does and that is what the clauses of the Bill do. That is why I am pleased to support this legislation at the Committee stage. 
Three years ago - in fact, in February 1971 - I was fortunate enough to be a representative of this 
Parliament on a parliamentary delegation to the Council of Europe at Strasbourg, which is on the border of France and Germany. The occasion of the visit was to take part in a debate in that European parliament on the subject of aid for developing countries. One of the documents which formed the background to this debate was the annual review of the subject of aid for developing countries drawn up by the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Australia was at that time a member of the Development Assistance Committee but not of the OECD as a whole. Of course, since that time Australia has become a full member of the OECD. As a member of just the DAC, Australia was invited to take part in the debate at Strasbourg, along with such other DAC members as the United States of America, Canada and Japan, which were obviously not members of the European Parliament itself but which were invited to debate the subject in that European parliament. Since then I have become an admirer of the work of the Development Assistance Committee. 
I would like to draw attention to the annual review of the Committee. Indeed, I believe that the most useful general reference work on the practical aspects of development assistance is the review to which I have referred. According to the latest DAC review, which was issued in November 1973, the net flow of resources to developing countries and multilateral agencies amounted to US$1 9,700m in the year 1972. It is regrettable that 1972 is the last full year for which these statistics are available. Almost half of that amount - US$8,650m - was disbursed in the form of official development assistance and other official flows. Of this official aid, about half was distributed in the form of grants. Private flows, mostly in investment form, came to US$8,540m while US$1, 028m was supplied in the form of grants from private and voluntary agencies. That gives some idea of the extent of aid in the world. 
I would like to say more about that overall world picture in the context of this debate concerning the setting up of an Australian development assistance agency. However, because of the amount of business to be undertaken by the House today. I have been asked to restrict my remarks to only half the normal time. As the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  knows, being an amenable fellow I have agreed to that request. So I shall leave it to those who are interested in the world picture to look up the contributions to this debate last night, in particular, and today from both sides of the House. In particular, I want to commend to the House the contributions of the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  and the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke),  which I thought were very worthwhile contributions that were made in a bipartisan approach. Indeed the whole of this debate has been more or less along that line. 
Instead I shall say something about Australian development assistance. I shall confine what I have to say to some general comments on the character of Australian aid and to a comparison of Australian aid with that of a number of other major donors. The main features of Australia's development assistance are, I think, firstly the heavy emphasis on bilateral programs. The Australian practice in concentrating on bilateral aid is consistent with that of other countries. Multilateral programs account for only 10 per cent of the assistance received by Asian countries. The second feature of Australia's aid is the heavy concentration on Papua New Guinea, which absorbs about two-thirds of Australia's official development assistance and an even greater percentage of the total flow of financial resources. The third is the emphasis on grants and grantlike contributions. 
As has been pointed out elsewhere, Australia's performance compares favourably with the efforts of others on the basis of the several standard formulas for evaluating aid that are used by the Development Assistance Committee. At this stage I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard a table setting out comparative aid-giving performance in 1972, which I think is the last full year for which figures are available. I have shown this table to the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland). 

<graphic href="088131197404036_26_0.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. What is so important is not the extent of the aid as shown in that table but the impact of the aid. Among the donor countries, Australia has, of course, a unique position. This has been pointed out already in this debate. Australia is the only developed country in the region of the poor developing countries of the world. Japan aside, Australia is the only country to which the security implications of underdevelopment are of regional concern. It follows, therefore, that what should concern Australia is not merely her performance as a provider of development assistance, but the actual impact of her development assistance. In my view it is essential that Australia be involved in ascertaining whether the countries in the region are progressing satisfactorily in their development plans and, if they are not, how Australia and other donor countries should significantly increase their efforts. In other words, we must be an aid leader. 
As is seen by reference to the table incorporated in Hansard, according to the various formulas used by the Development Assistance Committee, Australia's record as a donor nation compares very favourably. This way of looking at aid, however, takes little account of its impact. The figures setting out Australia's performance might look good to an Australian. But we could ask ourselves: What would a citizen of an Asian recipient country think of them? Two-thirds of Australia's development assistance, as I said earlier, goes to Papua New Guinea. Therefore, the amount of aid to be disbursed to the 1,000 million Asians who live in the region between Pakistan and the Philippines is less than $80m in the current financial year. Most Asians probably would see this expenditure as a modest effort by the only really prosperous country in this region. Perhaps they also would observe that Australia spends more than twice as much on defence assistance to Asian countries as it does on economic assistance. These criticisms aside, however, our assistance has been welcomed and relatively wisely spent. 
Australia's aid to Asia is heavily concentrated on Indonesia which currently is receiving about 40 per cent of our total allocation to Asia. The case for a special effort in support of Indonesia is not difficult to sustain. Indonesia is Australia's nearest neighbour and, at the same time, her development problems are very serious and complex. She has a population of 125 million. Since they gained independence the Indonesian people have endured nearly all the problems and setbacks associated with developing countries. Indonesia's political stability and progress in economic development are matters of vital concern to our country. A severe crisis in the Indonesian economy almost certainly would herald a period of political instability with obvious implications for Australian security. When these circumstances are placed in proper perspective, an even greater Australian effort in development assistance would not be difficult to justify. It could be argued that our present effort is a modest one for a prosperous neighbour, to whom Indonesia's success in overcoming her development and related problems are of such vital importance in foreign policy as well as long term commercial considerations. 
The Government, of course, has announced that $500m will go to Papua New Guinea over the next 3 years. If I may interpose a personal view here, I am hopeful that other countries also will help in the development of Papua New Guinea, to take some of the burden of that country off our shoulders so that we can spread the aid that is available. Already in this debate we have seen evidence of the good intentions to raise our aid to 0.7 per cent of gross national product. Undoubtedly there is some truth in various allegations about our aid. The existing programs of development assistance are not without their critics in Australia, as in other donor countries. It is sometimes argued that Australia should limit her development assistance and concentrate on cleaning up her own house. These critics allege that because a proportion of our aid to developing countries is wasted through corruption and inefficiency, these funds would be more effectively spent at home; we should not give aid to countries where corruption is present. It is alleged also that most Australian aid goes to countries under dictatorial regimes, where the funds are spent largely on making the rich of those countries richer, thereby exacerbating social inequalities. It is contended also that foreign aid weakens the resolve of the people in less developed countries and encourages undue reliance on external support. 
The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke),  among others, applied himself to these problems in this debate last night. It is, of course, incontestable that corruption and maladministration are present in less developed countries. But these conditions are themselves symptoms of underdevelopment and indications that the countries in which they exist are in need of help. A primary task facing the development economists and governments of donor and recipient countries is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of development assistance. This problem is not an easy one to solve, but substantial progress has been made in recent years. I should like to end on that point because the whole rationale of this Bill is to set up a statutory agency in which people will be specialists in this field of aid for developing countries. I welcome the introduction of the Bill. I keep to my promise not to speak for the full time I am allowed in this debate. I only trust that all the hopes expressed by honourable members from both sides of this House will be fulfilled in the specialist team which will form this Agency. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. I was misrepresented by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  in the second reading debate when he asserted that I made a promise at a meeting - I think he said it was attended by SOO people - at the University of Adelaide, that overseas aid gifts would be made an allowable deduction by a Labor government. I made no such promise. For a number of year I have attended Australian Labor Party Federal Conferences and indeed for many years before coming into, this Parliament I was a member of the Federal Conference Economic and Trade Committee. So I would know that no such promise could be made. No such specific details of policy were ever made by the Labor Party prior to coming into office. In fact I favour a system of tax rebates rather than concessional deductions. That proves that I would never have made such a promise. I believe in encouraging private giving and I would have said so. 
My question is also to the Prime Minister, but on an unrelated subject. What is the known extent of the Russian naval combatant presence in the Indian Ocean prior to the possible re-opening of the Suez Canal, excluding those vessels which are working on the clearance of Chittagong harbour? What is the known extent of the United States naval combatant presence in the Indian Ocean prior to the possible use of Diego Garcia, similarly excluding any vessels pursuing non-combatant tasks? Is the Prime Minister now able to outline in greater detail the initiatives being taken by India and our own Government to seek agreement between those 2 powers that each should limit its presence in the Indian Ocean, or preferably facilitate a zone of peace there? Has he noted that, among others,  Senator Mike  Mansfield, the majority leader in the United States Senate, supports such initiatives? 
A popular myth with the Liberal-Country Party Opposition today - tactics in this Parliament being what they are - is that the Public Service ought to be knocked for political gain. Because of misleading propaganda, this myth has arisen. I will show in the course of my remarks that there is no substance at all in the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  to the effect that pro.tacted delays have occurred or that anything has been shelved. So many emotional campaigns, similar to this one against the Public Service, are far from the truth. That is why I am happy to take this opportunity to say a few words in this debate about the distribution of the $70,015,000 surplus in the Australian Public Service Superannuation Fund. 
Let me make this quite clear: I do riot believe that the Government ever had any alternative but to distribute this surplus for the benefit of member contributors to the Fund on the one hand, and to pensioners on the other hand. All superannuation funds in the private or in the public sphere are and should be quite sacrosanct - separate, viable and independent from their parent body. The various taxation Acts ensure that this is so in the private sphere. I believe that the principle must be maintained in the public sphere and it will be maintained in the new superannuation scheme which will be drawn up later this year. Every indication, every representation from representatives of public servants or, should I say more accurately, representatives of member contributors to the fund, shows that those member contributors would prefer that the surplus of or the benefit from this Fund should be distributed in cash. 
In his second reading speech, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  indicated how this surplus came about. He stated 2 principal reasons and they bear repeating as it is some time since we heard that second reading speech,. Firstly, when the Actuary gave his advice on the setting up of this Fund, or when the last appropriate recalculation was made, he had assumed that the future long term average earning rate would be 5 per cent. Along with everyone else, the Actuary has been proved to be wrong. The long term earning rate has been higher than 5 per cent. Secondly, the Actuary has had to take into account the new long term interest rates in making this new calculation.  His  assessment as at 30 June 1972, known as the tenth quinquennial investigation, was made at a time when he was obliged to assume that the future long term interest rate would be in the region of 5i per cent. For these 2 principal reasons we have, what seems to be on the face of it, a massive surplus of $70,015,000. 
I say that it seems to be a massive surplus because when we take into account in this assessment the massive size of the Fund itself, there is a new perspective. Thousands of members and thousands of beneficiaries are involved in the Fund. When one examines what each contributor or beneficiary will receive 'by way of an increased benefit, the result does not look quite so impressive or massive, which is the word that I used. The matter as I said is put into better perspective. 
The first breakdown noted by the Treasurer in his second reading speech, to which I referred earlier, is the breakdown of that $70,015,000. 
On the one hand, the sum of $52,525,000 goes to the contributors - that is those who have not yet retired but are still contributing to the Fund - and on the other hand, the sum of $17,490,000 will be distributed to the pensioners, that is, those people who have already retired. I have done my sums and note that these 2 amounts do add up to $70,015,000. Indeed, the distribution has been actuarily calculated on the basis of members contributions. Of course, where citizens have taken lump sums and have left the Fund, they cannot benefit from the distribution. I am glad that the families of deceased members who were, at the time of their death, either beneficiaries receiving benefits from the Fund or indeed were contributors due for lump sums are to receive a benefit from this distribution. 
Another point well worth mentioning relates to the fact that $19,749,000 of this massive sum of over $70m surplus - something in the region of 28 per cent - is directly attributable to surpluses accumulated prior to the previous quinquennial assessment, namely, the surplus assessed at 30 June 1967. At that ninth quinquennial assessment calculated as at 30 June 1967 the surplus was $14,779,000. Because this was not distributed it has accumulated by the addition of interest to the $19,749,000 or 28 per cent of the total that I mentioned. This is a large percentage of the total being distributed. I question whether these surpluses should be distributed every 5 years rather than 10 years; in other words, after each quinquennial investigation has taken place. I note that the last distribution of the sort allowed for in this Bill took place in 1965, which is 9 years ago. This followed from the eighth quinquennial investigation as at 30 June 1962. Two points should be made here. At least the Labor Government has got around to distributing the surplus after the tenth quinquennial investigation much more smartly and swiftly than our predecessors, the LiberalCountry Party Government, got around to distributing the surplus after the eighth quinquennial investigation. I repeat the question I asked: Should these distributions not be every 5 years rather than every 10 years? I believe this point makes nonsense of the argument of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition who spoke about protracted delays. The time taken to bring this Bill to the House is a far shorter period from the quinquennial investigation, from the end of the period that has been investigated - namely, from 30 June 1972 - than was the period to the previous distribution from the investigation which took place as at 30 June 1962. More than that, the Liberal-Country Party Opposition must be condemned for the fact that no distribution was made after the quinquennial investigation which took place as at 30 June 1967. The previous distribution which took place as at 30 June 1962 was only after a 5-year period in which this surplus accumulated. 
We must assume rising interest rates and more surpluses; that is why the point I make that we should think in terms of distributions every 5 years is valid. If one examines recent history and what is happening abroad and one looks, for instance, at Conservative or Labour governments in the United Kingdom or Democratic or Republican administrations in the USA one sees that the ruling rate of interest has been rising. Indeed in those 2 countries and in most other countries it is above the ruling interest rate in Australia. Our political opponents in the Liberal and Country Parties may win future elections in Australia, although I very much doubt it, and they may resort to their deflationary tactics if they do win - that is, by cutting government expenditure, creating unemployment, slashing prices and bringing misery and wastage to this country. These were the tactics they employed as recently as 1971. They may win an election, although we doubt it, and do all this over again, but the people of Australia will bitterly regret the day they allow this to happen because all this achieves is wastage, unemployment and misery. Certainly inflation is not cured. There are no instant cures for inflation. There are time lags between measures taken and their effects. 
 I am explaining that we are bound to see increases in inflation and I am talking about the consequences arising therefrom. Inflation will be curbed to an acceptable level by the end of this year if we continue with an Australian Labor Government, as 1 believe we will. This will be particularly so if the people give this Government workable numbers in the Senate so that its reform measures can be put into effect. This brings me back to the point I have just made for the benefit of the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  If the superannuation fund that exists at the moment continues there will be future surpluses and my view is that consideration should be given to distributing them more often. However, we are all aware that the future of the superannuation fund is in the melting pot right now. A government committee has reported. The Treasurer has made some proposals arising from what was, I believe, a Treasury committee report. These proposals are now being studied by outside actuaries. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition mentioned the names of the 2 actuaries who are studying these proposals. In his second reading speech in introducing this Bill the Treasurer said: 
No adjustment of interest rates is contemplated pending a final decision by the Government on the new superannuation scheme. 
Unfortunately for those concerned it is unlikely that there will be any decision in this sphere until much later this year. If the rumours I heard prior to standing in my place to make this speech about supply being stopped or curbed there will be even further delays, as there will be delays in supplying this country with the necessary funds to get on with tasks in the fields of health, education and many other areas where this Government has made such a mark in such a short space of time. In the meantime it is realised that the existing rate of contribution is greater than is needed for the benefits payable under the existing scheme. Again I point out that surpluses will eventuate. 
What is important is that the surplus arising from this tenth quinquennial investigation belongs to contributors and pensioners and is to be paid out. The Superannuation Board expects that it will be able to make payments to the pensioners during September and October - I trust that any news of elections will not delay that - and to contributors by the end of this year, perhaps as a Christmas present. I have said that the surplus belongs to member contributors and also to the pensioners who are receiving benefits now. I want to dwell on this aspect. I know that some people in the community have suggested that the $70,015,000 could and should be better used on social services. The question has also been asked whether if there had been a deficit in the Fund this would have been offset by member contributors paying into the fund. Initially this is a most attractive concept for those of us not in the Fund. Certainly the $70m-odd could be well used in social welfare payments because the needs are great, but the concept does not bear close study. As I understand it, this surplus has arisen from the member contributors' own contribution. There is a de facto, if not a de jure, contractual obligation between those member contributors on the one hand and the Government on the other hand that these funds belong to the contributors. If the member contributors were entitled to only a 5 per cent long term interest rate on the money they invested in the past, even though they may have been able to achieve a greater return outside the Fund, and if the surpluses were to be transferred to Consolidated Revenue, this should have been clearly set out by our Liberal-Country Party predecessor Government at the time the contractual obligation was undertaken. It was not so set out and that is why I assert that the Australian Labor Government has taken the only possible course in making this distribution to all those who have contributed and made the surplus possible. 
For the reasons I have put I am very pleased to support this Bill. I trust that nothing that takes place in politics in this country in the coming weeks or in the coming months will delay the payment of the benefits to the pensioners, in September-October, as promised by the Superannuation Board, or indeed the surplus which has been promised to the contributors by the end of this year. I trust that nothing will delay this payment and I trust that there will be no more talk from Opposition spokesmen about protracted delays or anything being shelved because the record of the Australian Labor Government in this matter is so much better than the record of our predecessors. Our predecessors delayed for 5 years the distribution of surplus funds disclosed by the previous quinquennial investigation and in spite of that we have got on with the job of distributing surplus funds disclosed by the tenth quinquennial investigation so much more quickly than they distributed surplus funds disclosed by the eighth quinquennial investigation. 
When will the Liberal-Country Party Opposition in this Parliament speak in the national interest - in the interest of the average Australian - rather than in the interest of every interest group that there is? The Liberal and Country Parties have no policy in this field. All we have heard is a tissue of ideas put forward by a superannuation group here, a Bank of New South Wales group there or an association of bankers and so forth. At this early stage I pay tribute to the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who introduced this Bill again to the Parliament tonight, for the patient way he has dealt with every criticism expressed to this Bill. He has been patient because almost every criticism has been completely spurious. The Opposition has not in any way told the Parliament or the people what it intends to do about harnessing investment funds - harnessing the savings of Australians - in order to make sure that it is Australian savings and Australian investment which, to the greatest extent possible, is responsible for the development of Australia. I repeat, the Opposition has no policy whatever. All it does is to put up aunt sallies which are easily shot down. They have been shot down patiently and carefully time and again when we have debated this question in the House and also when the various interest groups have expressed their opposition and stated their arguments in public since the Bill was passed through this House. 
Those who listened to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  heard him say that it was hardly a tribute to the Labor members of the Senate Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control that the Government was re-introducing this Bill. What nonsense! It was not the wish of the Labor Party in the Senate that this measure should be referred to that Committee. We have discussed this measure in the committees of our Party. Many different groups in the community have expressed their views to our Party committees which have listened to all the arguments against this measure. Those arguments have been patiently answered. The concept of the Bill is simple. The Labor Party Government won an election as recently as December 1972 when one of the issues concerned foreign ownership and control of Australian resources. We are not against foreign investment as such. However we say that to the greatest extent possible we should make sure that there is Australian participation in every one of these enterprises. We are particularly interested in foreign investment when it brings into Australia new technology, but in order that there should be Australian participation we must have Australian savings. This Bill is one of the great measures designed to harness those savings in our community. It is uncomplicated. It just happens that every time anything new or anything of a reform or radical nature is proposed there is automatic opposition from the conservative forces in Australia - 'automatic opposition from so many in the business community - when there is no need for it. 
This Bill provides the means for individual citizens to gain a direct interest in very many different enterprises and ventures in Australia. It can be used also for funnelling overseas funds into Australian industry. Of course the Australian Industry Development Corporation can be a vehicle into which overseas investors can deposit money on fixed interest terms. By this means this Australian public enterprise organisation can take out equity investment or indeed fixed interest investment in Australian ventures. I am particularly interested in the fact that the AIDC will be a big investor in the Redcliffs petrochemical project in my own State of South Australia. We cannot hope that the Australian participation in that worthwhile enterprise will be as we would wish it to be unless the funds are in the AIDC to invest in that venture. Therefore, through these changes to the AIDC we must be able to harness those extra savings which we seek in order to invest in that project. The same applies to any great number of worthwhile projects in this developing country of ours. 
One of the great attacks of the Opposition has been that this is socialism by stealth. We have heard the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  mouth these meaningless words again tonight. 'Steamhammer' was one of his new descriptions of the Government's actions. But of course he was back to using the word 'socialism'. We are not at all reluctant to use the word 'socialism'. The word 'social' is good; so is the word 'socialism'. Indeed, it means that the community itself is involved in these projects. I am suggesting that through the AIDC there will be public participation in a lot of these great worthwhile development ventures. Of course the individual can invest in the AIDC and through it have a stake in these other projects, whether it is Redcliffs or a project in a State other than South Australia. 
The Australian Industry Development Corporation takes into account the economic viability of the project, the need to decentralise industry, protection from pollution, balanced employment opportunities throughout Australia and the better use of our resources. If we did not take into account the criteria which I have just stated, the only criterion taken into account by private industry would be the maximisation of return, which means that the highest profit and the highest interest rate are the criteria which are taken into account. The savings of Australians are being invested in high rise development in cities. In an inflationary age when building materials and skilled labour in the building industry are in short supply we have large buildings in Australia which arc completely empty because they have been built as hedges against inflation by people who have not used the criterion of the Australian nat ional interest when making their investment decisions. They have used this criterion when making those decisions: What is the quickest buck we can make? 
That is another reason we need as much public investment as we can possibly harness in Australia. The Government cannot invest publicly unless we use taxation funds. There is so much else of a social nature on which we want to use taxation funds, so we want to harness the savings of this country. I repeat that that is another reason the Australian Industry Development Corporation must be increased in size and must be used for this very worthwhile purpose. There will be no compulsion on life funds, superannuation funds or other funds to invest in such an organisation as this, but there will be an opportunity to do so. Perhaps through later legislation we will see an opportunity to invest in such an organisation as the AIDC instead of in Commonwealth loans, municipal loans or other loans in order to get the advantages of the 40/30 rule under the Income Tax Act. Why not allow investment in the AIDC in this way rather than in Commonwealth loans? I repeat, this is a very worthwhile Bill. 
 Mr Speaker,  on behalf of the Joint Committee on Prices, I bring up the Committee's report entitled Import Prices Inquiry - Price Effects of Currency Changes - (Report No. 2)'. I seek leave to make a statement. 
I rise to support this motion which honours a former Labor member for my electorate of Adelaide. I will not repeat  Mr Joe  Sexton's history because this has already been ably outlined. However, I, as did the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in paying their tribute, want to say a few words about his character. Joe Sexton was a man who never forgot what motivated his political activity and the activity of many others. In his case it was a desire to help people in need, a desire to alleviate the misery of poverty, a desire to protect the weaker citizens of our community - those who were most vulnerable. He set about this work as a politician and a parliamentarian, and as a private citizen after he left this place, in a most competent and sincere way. As has already been said, he had a very sincere manner. This was the essence of his character; this was the mark of his personality. 
A myth grew up after his defeat at the polls in 1966. Those of us in public life experience these myths which are often built on fiction and are sometimes nutured in the media. This myth was that his illness - he was a diabetic - had slowed him up and was responsible for the success of an energetic campaign on the part of a very young opponent. This was given as the reason for his defeat at the polls in the 1966 election for the House of Representatives. I take this opportunity once again in the interests of truth to seek to kill that myth. The swing against the Australian Labor Party in the division of Adelaide in 1966 was the second lowest percentage swing against my Party in all the South Australian electorates in that year. Only in the electorate of Grey was there a lower swing. We concede that the unpopularity of the Party's Vietnam policy at that time brought about this swing. However everyone knows that that policy of the Australian Labor Party on Vietnam was correct. But this temporary unpopularity was responsible for the defeat of the man we are honouring on this occasion. 

 Mr Sexton continued his social work after his defeat. He was a foundation member of the board of Southern Cross Homes Incorporporated. At the time of his death he was a liaison officer between the board of that association and its tenants. He had held the position for a number of years. Prior to that he was in charge of the maintenance of the homes. In both capacities he gave unstintingly of his time and ability. Much of his work was done in an honorary capacity. At the time of his death  Mr Sexton  had been a conscientious, hard-working and popular politician. He will be remembered affectionately not only by those who worked with him in the Labor movement but also by many older citizens whom he helped. He will be missed by all of his many friends.  His  large and devoted family already know of my sympathy. Today I am pleased to have this opportunity in this Parliament to pay this tribute to  Mr Joe  Sexton not only on my own behalf but also on behalf of those whom I represent and whom he served. 
My question is for the Minister for Social Security. When .will regulations be introduced to make increased benefits available for nursing home patients and when will legislation toe brought to this House on the subject? Is it a fact that the delay in increasing these benefits is due not only to the imminence of new awards for those working in nursing homes but also more particularly to the forcing of the double dissolution? As this double dissolution was forced by the Opposition parties, does this not lay bare the deceit of those Opposition members who have attempted to make cheap political capital out of the diffi culties of nursing homes - difficulties which they promoted? 
Has the Prime Minister noted the interesting divisions in the business community concerning the Prices Justification Tribunal? Has he noted that one set of company chairmen in their annual reports blame the Tribunal for lesser profits whereas the other set reckons that the Tribunal is useless? Can these views be reconciled? Is it possible that the work of the Tribunal has been sum.ficiently successful to encourage the Premiers to make their recent tentative offer of pricing powers to the Australian Government? 
In supporting the motion that these amendments be agreed to, I want to make 2 points. The first is that this is one example in a long history of examples of the Australian Labor Government reasonably accepting amendments put forward by the Opposition. I point out that this is something new since the Australian Labor Government took office. I had 3 years in Opposition when reasonable amendments put up by the Labor Party in this place were merely overlooked, stamped on and given scant attention. I hope we will see in this Parliament for many years to come this recognition that all wisdom does not rest on the one side but that there are reasonable amendments and other experiences, even in the Opposition, which can affect legislation. 
The second point I want to make is that we welcome the 11th hour conversion of the Opposition to a Financial Corporations Bill. Such legislation is something that the Labor Party has- been suggesting as necessary in this country for at least 20 years. It has been a tragedy since the Reserve Bank was set up to find just how many of our financial institutions were outside the ambit of the Reserve Bank's authority. This has created many anomalies in our institutions in this country. It has been a long, hard struggle with long, hard work by the officers of the Treasury "and by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  himself, to whom I pay tribute. I am glad that this hard work has now come to the point when we will have an Act in this sphere. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
I would like to point out that the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  has brought some extraneous matters into this debate. The fact is that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  offered some time ago to see the  chairman  of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia and the  chairman  of the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia. Originally they sent a telegram indicating they were not prepared to see him. I would also like to point out that there was a complete distortion on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's 'A.M.' program yesterday morning about just this matter, which should have been corrected this morning. Two segments gave me the impression that the Minister was not prepared to see the  chairman  and that the Opposition had mediated and was bringing this about. I repeat the word 'distortion' about this. Nevertheless I agree with the honourable member for Hotham to the extent that 1 am glad that agreement has now been reached between both sides of the Parliament about this measure in order to bring sanity to the situation and to produce negotiations between the parties. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
-The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  might have had the honour to be the first  speaker  from this side in this historic Joint Sitting, but I take some pleasure in being our last  speaker  and sweeping up the crumbs. In my view, all 4 debates of this 2-day Joint Sitting of this Australian Parliament have possessed 2 clear characteristics. The characteristics are clearly illustrated in the arguments which have been made in relation to this Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. The first characteristic is the belief of the Australian Labor Government in the will of the majority of the Australian people prevailing. We do not believe in surrendering to sectional interests. We believe in the community interest-an interest arrived at in a democratic way. We saw that illustrated in our electoral Bills and in our health Bills, and now we see that same characteristic illustrated in this Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. 
Until the election of the Australian Labor Government to the treasury bench in this Parliament there was precious little, if any, application of the community interest to policy making in this enormously important mining sphere. There was a lack of overall Australian Government policy. The former Liberal-Country Party 
Government had allowed the Australian mining industry such an enormous amount of freedom over its operations, including the writing of long term contracts and the unilateral determination of export prices, that in some cases policies were being followed that were harmful instead of helpful to our nation. The welfare of the Australian people was suffering instead of benefiting. The Fitzgerald report, which has been mentioned on a number of occasions in this debate, has indicated this so clearly. This was not the fault of the miners. This was clearly the fault of our conservative predecessors. They had the responsibility for the guidelines. They neglected that responsibility. 
The Australian Labor Government rejects such a laissez-faire philosophy. We have set about formulating and implementing, under the Minister for Minerals and Energy, a national minerals and energy POliCY of which the establishment of this Petroleum and Minerals Authority is only a part, although a vital part. We believe in economic planning. We believe in long term planning for orderly development. This is what we are seeking to achieve in this Bill. Without such orderly development we in the Aus.tralian Labor Party cannot hope to achieve the welfare policies that we are so bent on achieving. I refer to the national superannuation scheme, the rehabilitation and compensation scheme and other welfare policies that we want to achieve. 
I make the point that this is democratic socialism and we are proud of it. But let us be clear that this is no State monopoly. The Petroleum and Minerals Authority is no State monopoly. Our health scheme is no State monopoly. Both are examples of public enterprise in healthy competition with private enterprise. There is merit in both systems. There is even more merit in one being in healthy competition with the other. Ours is a mixed economy and is likely to stay so in the lifetime of any one of us in this Parliament. There is room for both public and private participation in aU spheres so long as it is clearly understood that democratic socialism means that the private sphere must work within national indicative planning guidelines. We must have national planning by a national government relating to national issues in order to maximise the national cake for the benefit of all, not just the few. 
Overlaying all of this has been the surge of Australian nationalism. This has been sufficiently dealt with in this debate and there is no need for me to repeat it. This brings me to the second characteristic of these 4 debates. I refer to the obstructionism being inflicted on this country by the Liberal-Country Party Opposition. Members of the Opposition will not admit that they have been electorally defeated. The Prime Minister opened his remarks to the Joint Sitting on this note and I am going to close it on this issue. They are piqued. Like the small boy who could not get a kick they want to tuck the football under their arm and go home. They will not play the game. In short they want to bring this country to its knees. Under our out-of-date for the 1970s form of government, with the States warring with the Australian Government, a hostile Senate with extraordinary powers able to frustrate the will of the popularly elected House of Representatives, members of the Opposition have plenty of opportunities to practice this obstructionism. Their attitude is that they shall not practise restraints. They say: 'We want others to do so in other spheres, but not us. We must have powers even though in the process Australia suffers.' In the minerals and energy field and in the attitude to the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill we see the characteristics of the Opposition well manifested. 
I am not going to state that there has not been a downturn in some areas of minerals and energy activities and in oil exploration in particular. The vast majority of the blame for this must be directed to the Opposition in this Federal Parliament. The Australian Labor Party's aims, backed by the majority of the Australian people, are clear. We want a healthy, viable Australian minerals industry. We want it working for the welfare of the Australian people. To the greatest extent possible we want it owned and controlled by the Australian people. In many areas within this mining sphere the vehicle for achieving these aims is this Bill. The obstructionism to this Bill resulting from the Opposition's attitude has brought about the down-turn in the minerals and energy activity. This dog in the manger attitude we have witnessed is not shared by people outside this Parliament. The Australian Petroleum Exploration Association has gone on record as saying that it wants this BUI passed. I end on that note because it proves the 2 characteristics which 
I said underlay all 4 debates. One is that we need the economic planning of this Bill and the other is that it is mere obstructionism at this stage which is preventing this Bill from becoming law. 
Debate interrupted. 
-The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  might have had the honour to be the first  speaker  from this side in this historic Joint Sitting, but I take some pleasure in being our last  speaker  and sweeping up the crumbs. In my view, all 4 debates of this 2-day Joint Sitting of this Australian Parliament have possessed 2 clear characteristics. The characteristics are clearly illustrated in the arguments which have been made in relation to this Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. The first characteristic is the belief of the Australian Labor Government in the will of the majority of the Australian people prevailing. We do not believe in surrendering to sectional interests. We believe in the community interest- an interest arrived at in a democratic way. We saw that illustrated in our electoral Bills and in our health Bills, and now we see that same characteristic illustrated in this Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. 
Until the election of the Australian Labor Government to the treasury bench in this Parliament there was precious huie, if any, application of the community interest to policy making in this enormously important mining sphere. There was a lack of overall Australian Government policy. The former Liberal-Country Party 
Government had allowed the Austraiian rnining industry such an enormous amount of freedom over its operations, including the writing of long term contracts and the unilateral determination of export prices, that in some cases policies were being followed that were harmful instead of helpful to our nation. The welfare of the Austraiian people was suffering instead of benefiting. The Fitzgerald report, which has been mentioned on a number of occasions in this debate, has indicated this so clearly. This was not the fault of the miners. This was clearly the fault of our conservative predecessors. They had the responsibility for the guidelines. They neglected that responsibility. 
The Australian Labor Government rejects such a laissez-faire philosophy. We have set about formulating and implementing, under the Minister for Minerals and Energy, a national minerals and energy policy of which the establishment of this Petroleum and Minerals Authority is only a part, although a vital part. We believe in economic planning. We believe in long term planning for orderly development. This is what we are seeking to achieve in this Bill. Without such orderly development we in the Australian Labor Party cannot hope to achieve the welfare policies that we are so bent on achieving. I refer to the national superannuation scheme, the rehabilitation and compensation scheme and other welfare policies that we want to achieve. 
I make the point that this is democratic socialism and we are proud of it. But let us be clear that this is no State monopoly. The Petroleum and Minerals Authority is no State monopoly. Our health scheme is no State monopoly. Both are examples of public enterprise in healthy competition with private enterprise. There is merit in both systems. There is even more merit in one being in healthy competition with the other. Ours is a mixed economy and is likely to stay so in the lifetime of any one of us in this Parliament. There is room for both public and private participation in all spheres so long as it is clearly understood that democratic socialism means that the private sphere must work within national indicative planning guidelines. We must have national planning by a national government relating to national issues in order to maximise the national cake for the benefit of all, not just the few. 
Overlaying all of this has been the surge of Australian nationalism. This has been sufficiently dealt with in this debate and there is no need for me to repeat it. This brings me to the second characteristic of these 4 debates. I refer to the obstructionism being inflicted on this country by the Liberal-Country Party Opposition. Members of the Opposition will not admit that they have been electorally defeated. The Prime Minister opened his remarks to the Joint Sitting on this note and I am going to close it on this issue. They are piqued. Like the small boy who could not get a kick they want to tuck the football under their arm and go home. They will not play the game. In short they want to bring this country to its knees. Under our out-of-date for the 1970s form of government, with the States warring with the Australian Government, a hostile Senate with extraordinary powers able to frustrate the will of the popularly elected House of Representatives, members of the Opposition have plenty of opportunities to practice this obstructionism. Their attitude is that they shall not practise restraints. They say: 'We want others to do so in other spheres, but not us. We must have powers even though in the process Australia suffers.' In the minerals and energy field and in the attitude to the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill we see the characteristics of the Opposition well manifested. 
I am not going to state that there has not been a downturn in some areas of minerals and energy activities and in oil exploration in particular. The vast majority of the blame for this must be directed to the Opposition in this Federal Parliament. The Australian Labor Party's aims, backed by the majority of the Australian people, are clear. We want a healthy, viable Australian minerals industry. We want it working for the welfare of the Australian people. To the greatest extent possible we want it owned and controlled by the Australian people. In many areas within this mining sphere the vehicle for achieving these aims is this Bill. The obstructionism to this Bill resulting from the Opposition's attitude has brought about the down-turn in the minerals and energy activity. This dog in the manger attitude we have witnessed is not shared by people outside this Parliament. The Australian Petroleum Exploration Association has gone on record as saying that it wants this Bill passed. I end on that note because it proves the 2 characteristics which I said underlay all 4 debates. One is that we need the economic planning of this Bill and the other is that it is mere obstructionism at this stage which is preventing this Bill from becoming law. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Just a year ago I visited New Zealand as a guest of its Government to take part in . the seminar on AustralianNew Zealand relations which was held at the university in Wellington. Not only did I meet  Mr Kirk  on that occasion at that seminar but I also had the privilege of spending an hour with him on a later occasion in his office. My meeting with the late Prime Minister of New Zealand was an inspiring and stimulating occasion for me. Most vivid in my memory is his outline of his vision for his country. As. has already been said by the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Kirk  had a special affection for the people of the Pacific Islands. He also had a special feeling for young people, for less privileged people and for the real quality of life of people, excluding things material. I repeat: It was a privilege.for me to meet him. I am glad to have this opportunity to associate myself with this motion of condolence. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on Prices I bring up the Committee's report on prices of household soap and detergents together with the minutes of proceedings taken in connection with this inquiry. I ask for leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
It is my pleasure to follow the normal traditions of this House and to congratulate the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  on his maiden speech. It has been a hurdle well cleared. Although we look forward to further contributions from him I hope, if I may say so, that they are not made too often because this energetic Australian Government of ours has a tremendous amount of legislation to pass and the days and the sittings are already very long. It is good to hear that Les Irwin is well. I visited Gallipoli with him in 1971. However, Les Irwin will readily understand it when I say that I would like to see his quiet and determined successor,  Mr Ashley-Brown,  back in this Parliament. I am sorry that the honourable member for Mitchell did not pay a well deserved tribute to  Mr AshleyBrown,  as I now do. 
The 1974 Budget debate has commenced tonight with a speech from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  Already his effort has been demolished in no uncertain way by the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan).  However, I shall return later to his disappointing contribution. At this point I would like to put into perspective the economic situation in which we find ourselves. 'Exceptional strains' is the phrase used by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his Budget speech. When the Australian Labor Government took over the reins of office in December 1972 there were 4 factors affecting the economy of the country. The first was that funds were flowing in as they had never flowed in before. We were awash with overseas funds. It was hot money expecting a revaluation of our currency, and the funds of wise investors overseas who realised that our assets were cheap. Why was this so? It was so because of a criminally negligent decision of the Liberal-Country Party Government in allowing our currency to be well below its true value, its market value, from the time of the Smithsonian agreement in December 1971. For one whole year- 1972- I use the phrase again, we were awash with funds. The 'filthy lucre', to use a colloquialism, was running out of the bankers' ears. 
That was not all. In December 1972 Australia was beginning to suffer from the August 1972 Budget. Who was the author of this Budget? Who was mainly responsible for that disastrous document? None other than the Leader of the Opposition who has been preaching to us at his self righteous best tonight. He it was who was the author of an inflationary Budget, a domestic deficit Budget at a time when the corner had been turned, when caution was required. What was the motive for his extravagance for which we are all paying now? It was none other than the need to buy votes or to attempt to buy votes for the inevitable election at the end of 1972. That was the second factor confronting the new Australian Labor Government when it took over in December 1972. 
The third factor which caused the demand inflation which this country suffered for the next 18 months- we make no bones about it- until about the middle of this year, all during 1973 and halfway through 1974, can also be laid firmly at the feet of the Liberal-Country Party Opposition. That third factor was the pent up savings of the community just about to be unleashed in a wave of spending with the new aura of confidence which came with the new Labor Government. The wave of spending during 1973 was the result of the stagflation which we had suffered in 1972. Unemployment had risen to over 200,000, over 2 per cent. People were afraid to spend. The election of the Australian Labor Government brought change and new confidence. Citizens began to spend their savings. The recession caused by the slashing of Government expenditure by the Gorton Governmentthis is something which was advocated all through this year and last year by the Snedden Opposition and which would have given rise to a much worse unemployment situation now- and by a recessionary Budget in August 1971, was at an end when the Labor Government took over. People were at last prepared to spend their savings. But we had a price to pay for this additional factor of Liberal-Country Party folly in the demand inflation of 1 973. 
The fourth factor which confronted the Government when it took over in December 1972 was the phenomenon of world inflation. For our size in terms of population, we are one of the great trading nations of the world. We are not self supporting like the United States of America. We cannot build a wall around us. We are very vulnerable to what is going on in the rest of the world. One of the clear and unmistakable characteristics of the recent past has been that the more a trading nation one is the greater is its vulnerability to inflation. Look at Japan. As was pointed out by the honourable member for Phillip, the report of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development shows that Japan had an inflation rate of over 25 per cent. I would like to repeat the figures given by the OECD as at 30 June 1974 which were outlined by the honourable member for Phillip. I believe they are worth repeating. In fact there were 1 1 countries of the Western world whose rate of inflation was worse than Australia 's rate of 14.4 per cent in that financial year. In addition to Japan which had a rate of inflation of 25 per cent, Italy had a rate of 18.9 per cent, Britain 17.1 per cent, Denmark 15.9 per cent, Ireland 16.2 per cent, Finland 16.2 per cent, Greece 3 1.8 per cent, Iceland 43.8 per cent, Portugal 25.9 per cent, Spain 15.2 per cent, and Turkey 25.9 per cent. These are only the figures for OECD countries. They do not include countries like the Philippines, Malaysia and Thailand in our own part of the world, which I have just visited and which also suffered badly from this world phenomenon- we can even call it a world malaise or a world illness. 
That part of the world, namely the Western world, which runs the capitalist system, the mixed economy and the world trading type system such as our own, has been in the grips of a world boom. The price of commodities has rocketed upwards. One of the main causes of this has been too much liquidity floating around in the world system. A big reason for this was the deficit financing of the United States in order to pay for the disastrous Vietnam war. But exacerbating this, as was also mentioned by the honourable member for Phillip, has been the energy crisis and the deeds of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries in pushing up the cost of their scarce commodity- the hydrocarbons, the energy and fuel upon which we have become so dependent. This was the economic situation inherited by the Australian Labor Government. 
Four dominant factors bedevil us. I repeat them. The first was the under-valuation of our currency for a whole year due to the folly of our predecessors. The second was the buying votes inflationary Liberal-Country Party Budget in August 1972. The third was that nobody was spending because there was no confidence before we took over. This was soon to be converted into a spending spree. These 3 factors clearly were caused by the Opposition which now preaches to us all. The fourth factor was a world influenced illness, inflation, so much of which was being imported. 
How has this been tackled? Fifteen days after we took office on 2 December 1972 the Government acted promptly with the up-valuation of our currency. There were howls from the Opposition against this move. I notice that there is hardly a whimper now. Hardly anybody in this country would suggest that that was a wrong move to take at the time. If they did they would be completely economically ignorant. There was the calling up of the special reserve deposits. This was a method of the central bank to control the amount of bank lending by the trading banks. This was promptly done after the taking over of government. We have noticed the opposite happening now as the special reserve deposits are being released. There was the cutting of tariffs by 25 per cent across the board- a courageous political decision- in July 1973. We were bending over backwards to let down this boom gently, known in the rest of the world as a soft landing. Japan also is trying to experience this. However, this was not enough. There was another upvaluation of the currency in September. This still had insufficient effect on businessmen's expectations. Therefore this had to lead to the further policy to overcome the boom when we were forced into the November 1973 monetary measures of higher interest rates. 
 Nobody would suggest that higher interest rates are something that a government would like to impose. But it was necessary in order to mop up the excess liquidity in the community. It was necessary, I repeat, to make government bonds more attractive- to siphon off excess liquidity from the community. The alternative was to tax this away from the people. I have not heard the Opposition claiming that this is what it would have done. So we had the unfortunate effect of a flow-on from the higher interest rates into the housing sphere. We all know these adverse effects. No one in his right mind would inflict this upon the community unless it was vitally necessary, particularly someone who has not a majority in both Houses of the Parliament and cannot govern with security for even the short period of 3 years. Yet, this courageous decision was taken because it was the only decision to take. This perspective is necessary. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has been living in cloud cuckoo land. One year ago the cry was: Too much demand; shortages everywhere; something has to be done. It was done. Even though what was done was with the greatest gentleness, we were blamed for not being harsher. 
If we had followed the advice that was coming from opposite we would have frozen wages and frozen prices and by now we would really have known what unemployment is. Instead of following the advice coming from the opposite side of the chamber, gentle policies were taken against a serious situation caused by those opposite in the way I have described to the House tonight. In spite of this, demand was brought into equality with supply in about the middle of this year. Because in this capitalist system we are so dependent on the whim of businessmen and their investment decisions, because we do not have a majority in the Senate, because we have a lack of co-operation in many of the States, because the Opposition went out onto the hustings less than a year ago and fought a sensible referendum giving this Australian Parliament powers that are possessed by every other equivalent parliament in the world- power over prices and incomes- we had a landing from these boom conditions which now do demand very careful treatment, and very careful treatment they will get from a very sensitive government. The result of this was, as I said, that the demand was brought into equation with supply earlier this year. In most areas shortages are a thing of the past. 
The decision makers are going to the other extreme when it comes to investment. They were on the crest of a wave. Now they are in the depths of despair. There is a world downturn. This, of course, also affects them. But it is all part of this capitalist system which is supported by those who are in Opposition in this Parliament. Once again the Government found itself relatively naked in this crazy federation, operating this stupid system without sufficient tools to counter properly the trends that are befalling us. If we had in our hands powers over investment decisions we might be able to do something about them, but we have not. They are in private hands and these private hands must be carefully handled. If we had control over capital issues 2 years ago we would have been able to tail off the boom a lot earlier and have a soft landing. But we do not have these controls, mainly because conservatives fight every referendum and deny the national government of this country the tools which are so desperately needed and necessary if it is to do its job properly. 
The capitalist economy has always ricocheted from boom to slump and back to boom again. Stop-go has been a feature of this system as long as any one of us can remember. We are doing nothing more nor less than suffering the same stop-go phenomenon which this system of ours has always suffered. The Australian Labor Government, I repeat, in the face of great criticism at the time, has bent over backwards to iron out these bumps, these booms and slumps. We have done better than our opponents, in spite of the noise that is coming from certain parts of the benches opposite. We have not in any way reached the sort of situation of a 2 per cent unemployment figure brought about by the Gorton measures of February 1971 and the Budget of August 1971. The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  is interjecting. He is a very recent member to this Parliament and obviously has done no homework at aU in recent economic history to learn what the tools are to control this economy. I do not pretend that what we have done is enough. What I say is that within the limitations of the tools available we have done all that can be done. This is the context of this Budget. Demand is more or less in equality with supply at this time. We have a government which is flexible and which Will act quickly when further trends are clearly visible. 
Very naturally and understandably the wage determination system is in chaos arising from this excess demand situation which we have suffered. We are not denying that wage and salary earners must catch up their incomes after this period of inflation. In fact there are many people in the community who deserve to catch up after such a period of demand inflation caused by the follies of our predecessors. Indeed, many others have a right to catch up on what has been caused by demand inflation in the recent past. An orderly wage determination system has to be devised. The days of leap-frogging must be put behind us. No wonder we have stoppages, strikes and all the dissatisfaction that is caused in the world of labour. Because of this Federal system of ours we have a leap-frogging of State determinations vis-a-vis Federal determinations and so on. What had to be done was to create the right climate for a new wage determination system to be established. Even though the signs are that we will have many disappointments, let us hope that that is something which Will arise out of the context of this Budget. 
There is rationale behind this Budget, and very good rationale it is. I am very hopeful, because of what I have heard in the last few days, that additional benefits will be given annually to wage and salary earners after we bring in wage indexation. I am very hopeful that the commendable establishment and development of the Prices Justification Tribunal will mean that price rises will be less frequent than they are at present and at a much lower level. I am hopeful that the States, even Queensland, will support new initiatives in this area which is so vital for our needs. 
It is in this context, I repeat, that we must see this Budget. From a deflationary point of view it is a neutral Budget. I am not going to pretend that from my point of view and the point of view of those in Adelaide whom I represent it is a perfect Budget. There are a few smaller things I should like to see amended, but negotiations will go on elsewhere about those. We are in the Australian Labor Party not expected to be sheep. In spite of the emotional and meaningless headlines we see in the newspapers from time to time about the Caucus rebuffing the Ministry, we will continue to practice participatory democracy and those who are the Ministers Will expect us to do so. 
The main message is that the strategy of this Budget is correct. A $23m domestic surplus is neither inflationary nor deflationary. The Leader of the Opposition has been grandstanding and sermonising. I repeat that it was not even a theatrical success in this Parliament; still less was there solid thought applied to the present difficult economic conditions from that side of the Parliament. It is the members of the Liberal and Country Parties who failed to revalue the currency and created those other follies which I have already mentioned. These were the legacies taken over by the Australian Labor Party, I repeat, in December 1972. To add insult to injury the Leader of the Opposition stalked the country opposing the giving of the necessary powers over prices and incomes to the Australian Government less than a year ago.  His  speech tonight was deceitful. He does not know whether he is applying himself to inflation or to unemployment and he has not the courage to make the choice. What Australia needs is constructive criticism from the Opposition. What it is getting is hollow, theatrical nonsense. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister in his capacity as Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that some of Australia's posts abroad are sorely taxed by the number of visitors they are obliged to look after? For instance, is it a fact that our Commission in Hong Kong was subjected to about 32 visits from members of the Queensland Government and Parliament last year and our post in Japan received a similar number from that source? In view of the lack of co-operation by the Queensland Government with the Australian Government what is the Australian Government's policy in relation to this matter? 
I have a message-I mean I have a question, and it is without notice, for the Minister for Social Security. The Minister will be aware of the financial problems of many nursing homes and aged persons homes organisations which signed contracts for building operations with rise and fall clauses prior to the Government giving further benefits in this area. Has the Minister any news for these organisations? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-During the course of his contribution to this debate- that is about all I can call it- the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  asked the rhetorical question: When was the member for Adelaide ever interested in the truth? I take exception to that remark. I consider it is up to the honourable member to state whenever I have not been interested in the truth. I believe that statement of his was as hollow as the rest of his speech. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Has the Minister noted a recent report that the new director of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories,  Dr Neville  McCarthy, has suggested that the role of the CSL as a pharmaceutical manufacturer should be strengthened? Further, has the Minister seen that  Dr McCarthy  allegedly stated, 'We can do a lot more if we're asked', but there appear to be no serious moves at present to diversify CSL activities into production of a large number of prescription drugs? Would the Minister do what he can to assist the CSL to increase its activities to provide community oriented competition in an area where prices are worrying? 
-Where the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  was not being political his speech on this most important subject was very thoughtful. I draw his attention and the attention of the House to the fact that only last Friday morning the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices of which I am  Chairman  and which, as the honourable member would know, is an all-Party committee made up of members of the Senate and members of the House of Representatives, had representatives from the Australian Bureau of Statistics before it for 4 hours. We covered the very ground which was the main subject of his speech. Our hearing was in camera. It is my intention, provided that there is nothing of a confidential nature in what was brought before the Committee, to seek the support of my colleague to make available to every member of the Parliament copies of the transcript of our meeting. I hope that the honourable member for Lilley will take advantage of that transcript so that he can be better informed on these matters just as I was better informed. 
There are many weaknesses in the compilation of the consumer price index. He has drawn attention to some of them. But I would require somebody of his background and training to be constructive in applying himself to this problem to which there are no easy solutions. As he has pointed out, the consumer price index is becoming more and more important. Its importance will intensify if wage indexation is to become a feature of Australian wage determination policy. 
I draw his attention also to the fact that the household expenditure survey which he has suggested is in the course of being carried out, thanks to the actions of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  Until last Friday morning, I had been extremely disappointed that this household expenditure survey had not been commenced many years previously by the Government of which he was a member. I had accepted that this was due to a lack of intestinal fortitude on the part of earlier Treasurers. Let me greet the honourable member in the same spirit as for most of his speech he greeted us by saying that that was not the reason. The reason why this survey had not been undertaken earlier was a lack of people with the necessary training in the community in this area. So, I will not be endeavouring to make political points by saying that this has not been done; I will merely be saying that our Australian Labor Party Government Treasurer has taken the necessary decisions for this household expenditure survey to be done. I hope that, arising from this action, in future the consumer price index will be far improved. I look forward to the honourable member for Lilley being constructive about it rather than, if I may say so, destructive as he was in his speech and in putting forward ideas. 
I am sure that the honourable member will be constructive in future. May I draw attention to the fact that we are enjoying a measure of open government in Australia. I believe that it is right and proper that the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  should raise the matter of the conflicts of ideas that are taking place relating to economic policy in Australia. I must confess that I did not hear the whole of the honourable member's speech. I raise this matter only because that part of his speech which related to areas where he differed from Treasury advice was commented on by the honourable member for Lilley in his opening remarks. He used such phrases as 'stalking horse ' and being 'unjust and unfair'. I believe that the honourable member for Lilley is being unfair in this matter. I think that he ought to adopt up to date attitudes in this matter and point out to the community, as I am now pointing out, that there is a need for people of different experiences- not just officers of the Treasury whose whole life is here in Canberra- to apply themselves to these problems. 
I am mentioning this subject in order to advocate that there should be some more formal organisation giving economic advice in this community. We in the Australian Labor Party have as part of our policy indicative planning. I believe that that ought to be done by a body formally set up. As I understand it, the Priorities Review Staff is not constituted to carry out this work. I am hopeful that, as the policies of our Government develop, we will have a more formal body doing the long term economic planning. This will be a body in which people from the community, whether they be economists from private enterprise, from a firm of management consultants such as the W. D. Scott organisation or economists from the academic field, would meet more formally with those senior officers in the Treasury who are involved in the general financial and economic policy division, planning the economic policies of our country. 
I recently returned from a short trip to China. Although there was much that was nauseating that one learned in that country, there was much to be admired. One of the aspects that I admired very much was the mixing up of people in the community. We tend to get too compartmentalised. I often think of this when I hear talk of worker participation in management. Perhaps there should be more management participation on the work floor as well. This is particularly evident when one realises that a great deal of the formation of economic policy here in Australia is being done in Canberra where those who are carrying out that responsibility are rather divorced from the great centres of population- the Sydneys, Melbournes, Adelaides and Brisbanes of" this nation. 
This is not the fault of the public servants themselves or of the staff of the Treasury. They are obliged to be here. Perhaps it is the fault of those politicians- more the fault of the previous Government- who in the past have not made the necessary arrangements to provide for more formal, and a greater number of, meetings between those who are qualified in the community to formulate policy on these subjects with those here in Canberra doing just that. I know that many of the senior officers of the Treasury will come back to me and say that they get out into the Melbournes and Sydneys as often as they possibly can. I believe that they do but in my view it is not often enough. This is because of the other important duties and great commitments which they must carry out in Canberra. So, we ought to be bringing people to them. 
I am particularly interested in those who formulated the Adelaide plan, especially as I am the member for Adelaide. As often as possible, I try to be in touch with such people as Professor Eric Russell and Professor Geoff Harcourt of the University of Adelaide, Professor Keith Hancock of the Flinders University of South Australia and  Mr Barry  Hughes and others who have had a hand in formulating the Adelaide plan. I know that they would very much appreciate greater contacts with officers of the Treasury. It would be excellent if the Treasurer could set up the distribution of some of the valuable documents including policy documents and ideas documents which float around in the Public Service. They could be distributed to people such as those whom I have mentioned in the universities in Adelaide and, indeed, other universities and among employer groups and employee groups such as the Australian Council of Trade Unions, so that a greater cross-fertilisation of ideas could occur and so that the formulation of policy in this most important area of all will be the result of the work of a wider group of people than those who are at the moment advising in this area. 
So, I do not accept in any way the criticism of the honourable member for Lilley about the Treasury being a stalking horse. I think it probably is our fault if the Treasury does not understand some of the attitudes and some of the hopes of those of us who are in the Government party. I think it would be even better if we set up the necessary structures so that there could be thus cross-fertilisation of ideas. 
-Empty vessels make most sound. Never has there been more evidence of that saying being a truism than the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  He is like a gramophone, and so is the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  on the question of Tasmanian freight rates. Every Labor member of the House of Representatives from Tasmania in the last few weeks has spoken in this Parliament. In fact they have done more than just speak: They have achived results in the lowering of freight rates. They have reported to the people of their constituencies and they have reported to this Parliament. I am referring to the honourable members for Braddon  (Mr Davies),  Wilmot  (Mr Duthie),  Bass  (Mr Barnard),  Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  and Denison  (Mr Coates).  They are working hard in the Parliament for these constituents right now. They have gone to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and they have achieved reductions in freight rates for those they represent. As the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  will show when he speaks shortly, the increases in freight rates which were the result of policies of the present Opposition were far more serious for the people of Tasmania than the recent increases after the reductions which have recently been implemented because of the actions of the Tasmanian Labor members of the House of Representatives. 
Tonight I will apply my remarks mainly to the subject of civil aviation, but before I do so I want to set the scene. Everywhere in the Western world the government hi office in under attack and on the defensive because of inflation. That is clear. Until there is an election that happens. The people are able to see in an election that the opposition has no answers, just as the Opposition in the Australian Parliament has no answers, on the matter of increased freight rates. People are able to see in an election that the opposition is worse than the incumbent government, with all the problems that there are to overcome. This has happened in Canada, where  Mr Trudeau  was returned. It has happened in the United Kingdom, where  Mr Wilson  was returned. It happened as recently as last May when  Mr Whitlam  was returned as Prime Minister of this country. It will happen again when he is pitted against the Leader of the Opposition. When the Opposition's empty and ridiculous promises are seen to be as rotten as they are it will happen again. So let the Opposition take its little bit of pleasure right now. The pendulum will swing as it does in politics. 
There is another reason why the policies of the Opposition will be seen to be what they are. That reason will become obvious on a comparison of the specific policies of the Government and the Opposition on transport. Transport is only one of the many areas where this is so, where the Government's policy can be seen to be fair and equitable and a breath of fresh air after the stagnation and lack of ideas of 23 years of LiberalCountry Party government. The previous Government spent money in a piecemeal fashion. What was done was done in an uncoordinated fashion. No idea of national policies could be seen from what was coming forth from the Liberal and Country Parties. They had no idea of national needs. The States were merely handed moneys. I repeat that there was no coordination in what was done with those moneys. The railways were starved, freeways abounded whether they were necessary or not, and highways like the Hume Highway were absolutely starved of funds and neglected. Civil aviation was one of the lucky areas, and I repeat that it is on civil aviation that I want to focus attention during the time I have left. 
The Australian Labor Government has set out to bring order where there has been disorder and planning where there has been ad hockery. Our aim is for a truly national, rational co-ordinated system and the careful husbanding of funds to get the best benefit for each $1 of taxpayers' funds spent on civil aviation. Australia is a vast country and increases in our overall standard of living are limited by the cost of transport. But that in my view does not mean that taxpayers have to meet that cost. For the most part the user should be the one who covers the cost, particularly in the area of civil aviation. Otherwise poorer people are merely subsidising the standard of living of those of us who travel by air. Let us look at our air navigation charges. In 1973-74 the cost of providing, operating and maintaining our navigation facilities amounted to $140m. The revenue received from the users of those facilities and services was $75m- a deficit of $65m. The Australian taxpayer was asked to pay more than $6 for each passenger who travelled on an Australian airline. The Australian Labor Government has sought to raise the charges to make the user pay. I think this is a policy which can be defended very easily. The deficit should be brought down shortly from the $65m I mentioned earlier to $63m in the estimates which we are now discussing. 
This brings me to the main reason why I have risen in this debate. I ask the Minister for Transport to use all his powers of persuasion and aU the powers he may have to lean on Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans- Australia Airlines to seek the conversion of our 2-class domestic airline system to a one-class system. Needless to say he will have to lean on both the airlines if this is to be done. Let me be quite frank. I am sickened by the fact that whether one travels Ansett or TAA nearly everyone sitting in front of the curtain, that is travelling first class, is being paid for out of public funds or to a lesser extent out of shareholders' funds. Nearly everyone behind the curtain travelling tourist class is paying for himself. It just is not good enough in my view. If there is one thing which the present economic crisis which the Western world is suffering should teach us it is that we have to improve the productivity to bring about an improvement in our standard of living. We have to concentrate on greater efficiency. Part and parcel with this, we have to make public funds go further. Here is one way of doing so. 
Let us all go tourist class. It will mean more people travelling in each aircraft. Relatively, it should bring down the cost of travel and save us the nasty action of making members of the Opposition as well as public servants go tourist class instead of first class. We would all have to do so because there would be only one class and no choice. Although I say so myself, this suggestion will hurt no group in the community more than members of the Australian Parliament. There can be few as a group who travel more often or further distances than we do. Our lives are enormously busy. Very few of our constituents have any idea of the demands made upon us- the way we are obliged to rush around this country. It is an enormous load off our minds to have firstclass travel, just as it is to have transport to and from the airports. It is also very much more convenient for us and our families to get up at 6 o'clock instead of 5.30 in the morning to get a 7 a.m. flight. But surely the personal inconvenience of the 187 members of both Houses must be secondary to the national interest. I believe that it is in the national interest to have one class domestic airlines. 
Surely the tourist section does not have to be as cramped as it is at present. Six abreast is too tight for people of even my size. I feel certain that a little more room can be given if there is not so much traffic up and down the aisles. On the longer flights to and from Perth everyone gets a tray anyway. Soon we would wonder why we ever had an elitist 2-class system. The internal airlines are all one class in New Zealand, and they are very good. The internal airlines in many other countries are also. One I visited recently is China. It has a one-class system, which is excellent in a country such as that. I have mentioned just 2 countries. 
I hope that the Minister will use his powers of persuasion and at least let the airlines look at this suggestion. There is no reason why we should just go along with the elitist policies of the Opposition just because they are policies which applied in the recent past. Our 2 -airline system is here to stay, but too much of the taxpayers' funds is being used in sudsidising it. I support the actions of the Government in making sure that the user rather than the taxpayer pays for this system to a greater extent. But we also should look at suggestions such as the one I have made for one class domestic airline travel in order to bring down the cost of air travel. 
-For those who have not had the opportunity of looking at the estimates for the Department of Minerals and Energy I should like, for the record, to explain that the estimates are divided into S separate headings. Not only are there the administrative costs but also a section about which we hear little, the Division of National Mapping; the Bureau of Mineral Resources, about which we hear more and which does so much valuable work in collecting information on which decisions are made and on which the private industry has so much relied in the past; the Joint Coal Board and the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. I know that the estimates for Appropriation Bill (No. 2) are not before the Committee but we will not have an opportunity to talk about them at great length when they are before the House and in addition to capital works and services under that heading we also have the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority, the Atomic Energy Authority, the Pipeline Authority and, for the first time this year- this is splendid to see- $50m appropriated for the Petroleum and Minerals Authority, the new body set up since the joint sitting of this Parliament. However it is not about any one of those particular headings that I want to talk, it is about 3 items that come under the heading 'Adminstrative', namely, the Redcliffs petto-chemical industry, the uranium industry and solar energy. The latter I will discuss if there is time. 
Before commenting on these items I pay tribute to the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  who so often is under attack not only from the Opposition but also from people whom I consider to be ignorant of the problems he faces- people in the media and from private industry. One feature of these attacks is that they are destructive and not constructive. I believe that everyone in this country should accept that the Australian Labor Party was 2 years ago and again a few months ago elected to power in Australia on a clear policy of not only developing Australia's great resources of minerals and energy in a rational way but also to see that those resources were in the hands of Australians and that decisions were not being taken elsewhere in the world as so often they were in the past. A grandfather of mine was a leading mining engineer in this country. He worked with a British company even though he was an Australian. I have spent two very enjoyable and worthwhile years of my life working in the mining industry at Broken Hill. Fortunately in that case, although a lot of the capital has been contributed from outside this country the directors of those mining companies had the foresight to make sure that the management would be in Australian hands, but that has not applied universally.  (Quorum formed).  I do not know why the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  who aspires to be a front bench member, called for a quorum. It is a very puerile thing to do. I was talking about the degree of Australian participation in the mining industry and the very clear support that the Australian Government has had on 2 occasions from the people of this country to do more about Australian participation. I suppose, because of the success of the Minister for Minerals and Energy, the honourable member for Curtin felt that the time allocated to me to speak on this subjectI was given only 10 minutes in all- was too long. 
I should like to talk now about the Redcliffs petro-chemical industry. This is an industry that is vital for South Australia. The products of the Cooper Basin, in addition to the methane which is transported by pipeline to Adelaide and soon to Sydney, are ethane, propane and butane. More and more of these properties of the natural gas from the Cooper Basin will be available as the producer companies, mainly Santos Ltd and Delhi Oil Corporation Ltd, in that area move to what I, as a layman, would call wetter wells. It is essential that we get this industry under way as soon as possible for the future not only of South Australia but also so that the ethane, propane and butane will not be wasted. The South Australian Government has had worthwhile plans for a number of years in this area. They were attacked initially by the Opposition in South Australia but I believe now generally are supported by the Opposition although I notice that there are still some cynics, including  Senator Steele  Hall, about this particular industry. The whole of the complex required the support of the Minister for Minerals and Energy and I take this opportunity of thanking him for the support that he is now giving to that project. I stress the urgency of it as otherwise energy will be wasted. I also stress the urgency of ensuring that the partiesthe ICI consortium on the one hand, and the producers on the other hand- quickly come to terms on the prices of these products to come from the Cooper Basin natural gas. I repeat that this industry is so vital for South Australia. 
There are environmental problems which I believe should have been tackled earlier. This is no criticism of the Australian Government Minister. I do not know where the fault lies but it is disappointing that the environmental inquiry is taking place only now when there has been so much delay already in this industry getting under way, an industry, I repeat, which is vital for my State of South Australia. I hope that even though the site at Redcliffs may not be the ideal site after this inquiry has been carried out, we will make use of the valuable products from that Cooper Basin and ensure that they are not wasted and that we will look for another worthwhile site even if it will not bring about the decentralisation which the Premier of South Australia was seeking and even though we may set up that industry near the petroleum refinery at Port Stanvac at Port Adelaide or in a similar area. I believe that there are also problems quickly to be overcome in regard to the new taxation provision relating to mining companies. The whole of the pricing arrangements between the producer companies and the users of the methane in Adelaide and Sydney have now been thrown into the melting pot by the new mining provisions. I ask the Minister to do all he can to help in that area as well. 
-So much of what the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  has just said is so patently nonsensical that I do not propose to spend any of my time answering him, except that if I have time to do so at the end of my speech I will mention the Credentials Committee of the General Assembly of the United Nations and the South African position, which was raised by the honourable member for Bradfield. 
I have been fortunate this past year in being able to study at first hand Australia's relationships with the United States of America, Canada, Malaysia, Thailand, China, Japan and the Philippines. However, much as I would like, in speaking in support of the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs, to talk about those countries and Australia's improved image in those countries, the efficacy of Australia's aid programs in relation to some of them and so on, I do not have time to do so. I have decided to give priority to talking about one of our closest neighbours where problems might be looming and about which I would like my views known. I refer to Portuguese Timor, which has been mentioned already by the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison). 
A coup in distant Lisbon in April this year brought about the overthrow of the fascist regime which had ruled Portugal and her territories for more than 40 years and its replacement by a government of progressive army officers and liberal and socialist civilians. This change of regime has sparked off a process of decolonisation involving the dismantling of the last of the great Western European empires. So far the attention of the international and Australian Press has been focused largely on events in Mosambique and Angola, the 2 large Portuguese territories in Africa. But the policies of the new government in Lisbon carry important implications for the small distant Portuguese territory of Timor, which lies less than 400 miles from Darwin and is thus one of Australia's nearest neighbours. It is already clear that the present status of Timor as an overseas province of Portugal will change as a result of the process of decolonisation, which is expected to get under way in one or two years. 
The Portuguese colony of Timor, which comprises the eastern half of the island of Timor together with the enclave of Oecussi and 2 small islands, has an area of approximately 7,400 square miles and a population of about 650,000. It is thus small in size and in population when compared with Australia's other neighbours in the area- Indonesia and Papua New Guinea. Australia cannot, however, ignore future developments in Timor, for 2 obvious reasons: Firstly, Portuguese Timor is a neighbouring state and, despite its smallness and comparative insignificance, it is incumbent upon Australia to show concern for its future. It should be remembered that in the South Pacific area Australia has several neighbours who are smaller in size and population than Timor. These small states look to Australia for economic assistance, for guidance and leadership in major diplomatic issues and, in the final analysis, for security should their national integrity ever by threatened by some outside power. The Australian Government, by its early recognition of the provisional government of Guinea-Bissau, has already indicated that it is concerned about the future of small states, as it is about issues involving the major nations of the world. Therefore, in our attitudes towards the decolonisation process in Timor we have a record to uphold; and to ignore the fate of this territory, in spite of its smallness and strategic unimportance, would be to risk our diplomatic integrity among the many small nations of the South Pacific area. 
Secondly, the change in the future status of Portuguese Timor inevitably brings Australia's relations with Indonesia, our most important northern neighbour, sharply into focus. There can be no doubt that Australia's relations with Indonesia are of overriding importance in very many respects. Indonesia is not only Australia's nearest Asian neighbour. It is a large nation of some 130 million people, a key member of the Association of South East Asian Nations, and forms, as it were, a bridge to Asia. A stable, friendly Indonesia is an imperative in the overall perspective of Australian security. 
The future of Portuguese Timor was apparently discussed at the recent meeting between the Australian Prime Minister and  President  Soharto. Although no communique was issued after this meeting, which took place early in September, reports suggest that the Indonesians indicated that the best solution for Timor would be for the territory to integrate with Indonesia. The Indonesians reportedly are concerned that an independent state of Timor would in some way threaten the soft underbelly of the archipelago nation. This was a curious departure from the position taken by the Indonesian Foreign Minister, Adam Malik, as expressed in a letter to Ramos Horta, when the latter visited Djakarta in June. I might say that I subsequently met Ramos Horta here and entertained him in this House. In his letter,  Mr Malik  not only indicated Indonesian support for an independent state of East Timor; his letter in fact provided for no other alternative. This view, however, was clearly not shared by certain other Indonesian leaders, some of whom are at least equally influential, who see the absorption of this territory of Portuguese Timor as the only acceptable solution. 
In Portuguese Timor itelf, despite the small size of the politically conscious minority, which probably amounts to less than 3,000 at the outside, there has been a surprising amount of political activity since the new Government disbanded the political police and allowed freedom of political activity, shortly after coming to power. Three political parties were established. These parties have been taken to represent the 3 options open to the territory in its political future. The 2 main parties- the Democratic Union and the Revolutionary Front for an Independent East Timor- have independence as their objective. The first of these parties, however, favours an interim period of some form of association with Portugal while the second, which is more radical in its outlook, favours full independence after a minimum period of decolonisation. These 2 parties between them attract the support of about 95 per cent of the politically aware section of the population. The third party favours integration with Indonesia and has so far attracted very little support. 
The merging of Portuguese Timor with Indonesia, because of the former's smallness in size and fundamental economic weakness, would, at first sight, seem to be the best solution to the territory's future, from the point of view of both Australia and Indonesia. But the problem is a much more complicated one. It is clear that few Timorese, after 4 centuries of Portuguese colonial occupation during which time they had little contact with their Indonesian cousins, are interested in joining with Indonesia. Their historical background and cultural influences have been very different from other areas of the archipelago. They feel that, as an independent state, Timor's economic development will advance much more rapidly than as the 27th province of Indonesia. They are also aware that Indonesia's record in granting autonomy to its outer provinces is not impressive. Finally, it is indeed rare in recent political history for a territory which has existed in virtual isolation for so long to deny itself the prospects of independence and the prizes of office in favour of a more or less anonymous existence as part of another state. 
The emergence of Portuguese Timor from this 4 centuries of colonial vassalage presents something of a challenge to Australia. In view of the paramount importance of our relations with Indonesia, it would seem tempting to let this tiny territory be incorporated into Indonesia, regardless of the wishes of its inhabitants. But we are traditional supporters of the principle of selfdetermination, as set out again today by the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison),  who is at the table, and the right of nations, even small nations, to independence. Australia cannot therefore connive at the denial of these rights to the Timorese people. This Portuguese territory may be small and basically economically unviable. But there are many other smaller and economically weaker countries in the world, among them Guinea-Bissau. Indonesian fears that Timor would pose a threat to her security also seem exaggerated. In their foreign policies, small states, almost without exception, go to extremes to placate the fears of their neighbours. The young leaders of Timor have already indicated their readiness to adjust their foreign policies to suit Indonesia. 
The positive course for both Australia and Indonesia would be to accept the challenge of helping the process of decolonisation in these Portuguese territories, preferably in a cooperative effort. The Timorese leaders have been looking anxiously to Australia for some sign that we would be prepared to assist them in their political and economic development, and to help them placate Indonesian fears that they would pose a threat to the latter. However, Australia is no longer represented in Dili, where the consulate was closed in 1971, and we are hardly in a position to know what is presently happening in Timor. There have, however, been disturbing reports of an angry Timorese reaction to rumours that Australia is prepared to sell them out. These reports appear to have contributed to a sharpening of tensions in Timor and a deepening of suspicions and hostilities towards Indonesia. These are unfortunate developments which, it would seem, could be avoided if Portuguese Timor's 2 powerful neighbours, Australia and Indonesia, could join together in helping the people find a just and free solution to their future status, the outcome of which would surely carry obvious advantages in terms of both security and goodwill in Indonesia. I hope that this course which I advocate will be adopted by the Australian Government. I believe that it will be of benefit not only to the Timorese people but also to Indonesian-Australian relations. 
My question which is directed to the Prime Minister, concerns the tragic Cyprus situation. The Prime Minister will be aware of the bad conditions still prevailing in Cyprus- the suffering, the loss of production, and the disruption to the normally pleasant way of life on that island. He will also be aware of the sad hiatus that seems to exist- the apparent lack of action in finding a solution, the existence of foreign troops on that independent soil, and so on. As the Prime Minister and his Government have given a new respect to the Australian position in the world- a new authority for our countryand as we currently have a seat on the United Nations Security Council, will the Prime Minister please outline to the House the action that Australia is taking and will take to improve this tragic situation? 
-In rising to support the Defence vote I want to draw attention to the nonsense that we have just heard from the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  The rubbishing of our armed Services by the honourable member does neither him nor the Opposition Parties who chose to place him on the front bench any credit whatsoever. The whole basis on which his remarks were made was wrong.  His  remarks were full of a lot of emotional claptrap which should not be expressed in this Parliament. On the other hand I want to congratulate the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  who is carrying out an extremely difficult task very well indeed. It is a most difficult task because the whole thrust of the Australian Labor Government is for peace, not war. I must say that their difficulty is snared by all those who work in the very honourable area of defencethose members of the armed Services generally and civil servants- because, frankly, it is much much easier to build up morale in a time of threat or war than it is in a time of peace and when we have friends. Thank goodness we have friends who share those thoughts. Thank goodness we are living in a time of peace and we ought to congratulate ourselves that we have an Australian Labor Government which concentrates on just that. 
One of the most important concepts of a defence policy is the recognition that the situation as we know it at present could change. As is well known, the best strategic analysis sees no real threat to Australia at the present time. It sees security for many years. I need only quote from the 1974 Defence Report to show this. This report is not something that has been dreamed up by Labor politicians such as myself. The report has been written not by politicians but by senior pubhe servants in this country, heads of the armed Services, heads of the Joint Intelligence Organisation, the head of the Prime Minister's Department and the head of the Defence Department. These are the words which they used in their 1974 report in contradistinction to the nonsense that has come from the Opposition benches: 
No regional power has or is likely to acquire for many years the capability and motive that might require a substantial Australian defence response. 
I almost feel like quoting that part of the report again so that these words can sink into the minds of members on the Opposition benches, but time will not permit me to do so. 
The basic need is to maintain a capability in military skills and in basic equipment from which the nation can respond to meet a change in the situation as we know it now. The nature of any change is most difficult to predict. However, if we bear in mind that the primary object of having armed forces is to defend the Australian mainland, it is clear that a defence policy must aim towards providing the essential sea and air power to enable sufficient forces to be available to ensure adequate control of the seas close in to Australia, to be able to patrol well out into the ocean areas and to strike if necessary. It is essential that a force be kept in being with sufficient equipment as a basis from which balanced expansion can be effected. These are the principles which we are looking to. 
It has been recognised for a number of years that the destroyer element in the Navy is inadequate. The important decision has already been taken to purchase 2 patrol frigates from the United States of America. It should be understood that this purchase will in fact replace ships due to be phased out of service by the end of this decade. As was pointed out earlier, the patrol frigates are due for delivery in 1981. Another important decision is to purchase 8 long range maritime patrol aircraft. Again, however, this is a purchase which replaces existing Neptune aircraft which are due to be phased out. A decision to replace the Centurion tanks with 53 United States M60 tanks or German Leopard tanks has already been made. 
No one will deny that there has been a gradual fall in the percentage of the defence vote spent on equipment. Indeed it has fallen from approximately 25 per cent in the mid-1960s to approximately 7 per cent today. To a great extent this has of course largely been caused by the need to spend more of the vote on pay and improved conditions of servicemen. The defence vote itself has been increased from $ 1,334m last financial year to $ 1,4098m in this Budget. There is no doubt that the manpower position in the armed Services has been brought to a much more realistic level when we consider the very high cost of new equipment. The plain fact is that in peacetime in a low threat situation the important thing is to keep manpower to minimum levels commensurate with the basic function of the defence vote, that is, the maintenance of skills and the ability to man the warships and aircraft available to which I referred earlier. 
Defence expenditure as a percentage of the gross national product in a number of countries which are acutely aware of their responsibility to ensure national security but which at the same time, like ourselves, really have no aggressive intentions- and perhaps I should first of all point out that Australia's percentage is approximately 2.4 percent- are as follows: Canada 1.8 percent; 
West Germany 2.9 per cent; Italy 2.9 per cent; Sweden 3.1 per cent; and Switzerland 1.7 per cent. It is not really fair to make comparisons of this type because Australia's defence situation is very different from that of any other nation. A European country such as Sweden for instance, has for many years maintained a capability for rapid mobilisation of very large armed forces. If we make a comparison with a country such as this it is apparent that Australia spends a most substantial percentage of gross national product on her defence. 
A feature of Australia's defence situation which will continue to influence planning is her strong position in comparison with other nations in the South East Asian and Asian areas. Japan is clearly much more powerful in a military sense if she wanted to mobilise, and so is China. However, neither of these countries has either the capacity or the desire to attack Australia. Other nations in the area have not the industrial capacity or the industrial strength to sustain operations on the scale required to threaten Australia's security. These are facts, not emotions as put forward by the Opposition. 
In addition, Australia has achieved a close relationship with her neighbours. It is realised by the Australian Government and the South East Asian nations generally that there is an overall gain to be achieved by mutual co-operation. Australia has accepted a heavy long term commitment to aid the less developed nations. This is directed towards economic aid to assist in development as well as direct assistance. There is no need to remind the Parliament that the total of $341m included in the Estimates is $81m more than the amount for last year. It is proper to bring that matter to the attention of honourable members at this time when we are talking about having friends rather than enemies. With Australia's industrial development so far ahead of that of the poorer nations in this region, there is everything to gain from the fostering of the friendships that are now being developed by the Australian Labor Government. 
In any consideration of defence one thinks of the fundamental principle that long term planning based upon a concept of the general security of the Australian mainland is the only basis which is sound. This means the maintenance of the very efficient small armed forces which we possess. It also means a regular and critical review of equipment planning so that we actually possess those capital items which we need so badly. 
I would like to say something about equipment in the few moments left to me, but I notice that my time is about to expire. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Australian Government, through the Minister for Defence, whom I have already congratulated, is concentrating in providing all 3 of the armed services across the board with basic items and bringing their equipment up to date. He is not going in for glamour items like the Fill and therefore has none of the problems obtained by concentrating efforts in that sort of area. I repeat my earlier message of congratulations to the Minister. Of course our whole emphasis must be on peace, not war. 

 Mr DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Northern Development. What are the present prospects of a long term sugar agreement with the United Kingdom? Has the Minister noted a report that those negotiating on behalf of the United Kingdom Government were uncertain as to the quantities of sugar that may be available from Australia and as to the price of that sugar? What truth is there in those reports? 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
-I rise to - 
-The call always goes from one side of the House to the other, and I have been in this House waiting for the call. Indeed, waiting to take part in this debate - 
-I have been waiting in this House to take part in this debate. Indeed, I thought that I would wait until there was something to answer in the debate before I made my contribution, but I have waited in vain. I must confess that I hope that not too many people had the misfortune to listen to the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  who took his full 20 minutes on this subject. You were very tolerant,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because he hardly touched on the subject of these 2 Bills during the time he was on his feet. He started by saying that he supported the Government in the matter of the Taxation Administration Bill 1974 and the Banking Bill 1974. He then strung together so many cliches that I hope nobody will have to read them. Indeed, as I said earlier, I hope that not too many had to listen to them. 
The fact is that the Government has taken an initiative in this matter for which, to my knowledge, the country has been waiting for 5 years. I entered this House in October 1969. 1 can well recall the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  in early 1970 drawing attention to the tax havens which existed. The honourable member for Hawker is another Labor member from my own State of South Australia. I can well recall the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  who is a Labor member from New 
South Wales, drawing attention to the existence of these tax havens. When we were in Opposition during that period from 1969 to 1972 1 also drew attention to the tax reform that was required in relation to tax havens. 
The one initiative that was taken in relation to this matter of tax reform during that period- the last 3 years of the 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Government and which I can support in any way- was the McMahon Government's setting up of the Asprey Royal Commission into taxation. For the honourable member for Hume to sermonise on all of the initiatives taken by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government was an example of someone completely misleading this House. I say again what I indicated earlier: We have been waiting for all of this time for legislation in relation to tax havens. It is only because of the extremely busy schedule of legislation which has been introduced since December 1972, when the Australian Labor Government took office, that we have had to wait this length of time, since we had a Labor Government in this country, to bring in measures such as these. So I am at least glad that the Opposition is supporting this legislation. 
Having heard the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and the honourable member for Hume in particular, I state that, in constrast I consider that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  had a contribution to make to this debate. I will come to deal with his contribution in a moment. Having accepted that the honourable member for Lilley had a contribution to make, I mention again that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Hume in saying that they supported these measures did nothing but read other Government second reading speeches or generally sermonise on the need for taxation. They tried to use phrases of a kind they would use if they needed to rise in the House to support motherhood. It has been a sad debate from the point of view of the contributions from those 2 members of the Opposition. 
Let me go over the purposes of these 2 Bills once again. The first purpose is to take full advantage of the constitutional powers of the Australian Government in relation to exchange control regulation of the financial aspects of overseas transactions. The second purpose is to provide for the extra territorial application of the banking foreign exchange regulations. The third purpose is to include provisions that validate for the purpose of any civil proceedings, acts or transactions already entered into or which might be entered into in future without the proper exchange control authority, the right of the Government to prosecute persons for breaches of the banking foreign exchange regulations. Those purposes have been set out by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his second reading speech on the Banking Bill 1 974. Similar purposes are set out in the Taxation Administration Bill 1974 as these are complementary measures. 
The honourable member for Lilley drew particular attention to the powers contained in the proposed new section 39. If I understood him correctly he pointed out that although these were powers which were held under the Constitution since the Constitution was formulated, in articulating them in this way in these Bills we were drawing attention not only to the powers but also, if I interpreted him correctly, to the great dangers in these powers. 
I stand corrected. Apparently, the honourable member was drawing attention to the fact that we must be watchdogs and make sure that the powers are properly used. I take his point. They are important powers. However, if I may coin a phrase, I think it is sleight of hand to expect that because these powers are now articulated in this way we can ex post facto suggest that the Government is responsible for the international transmission of inflation that has occurred in the past. Perhaps it could be argued that the Government by setting out these powers and using them wisely in the future has less excuse for the international transmission of inflation. I add straight away that I would take issue with that but perhaps it could be argued. Certainly, one could not argue, as I think the honourable member for Lilley tried to argue during what was at least a novel contribution in contra-distinction to the contributions of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Hume, that the past was such that the Government could be blamed for the international transmission of inflation. That could not be so. 
But let us just talk about the future. I do not believe in any way that the proposed new section 39, if used properly, will do anything but ameliorate the effects of the international transmission of inflation. As the honourable member for Lilley well knows- he is one of the few Opposition members who knows anything about this subject of economics- the fact that an importer of timber in this country is obliged to pay so much more for a cargo of timber from the west coast of America could not be affected by the new section 39 unless one imagined that those powers could be used in some way to alter exchange rates in relation to just that one importation of timber. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. He has not raised a point of order and he knows that. 
Of course, this is another example of the rowdyism of the Opposition in its endeavour to flout the Standing Orders of this House. 
Debate interrupted. 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. He will be aware that many local government councils in Australia are wondering when they will receive their cheques as a result of the special and generous assistance which is being given to them by the Australian Labor Government after the evaluation of their needs by the Australian Grants Commission. I know that the Bill has been through the Parliament. Has it yet received royal assent? Will the Minister please outline the procedures from this point? 

 -Mr Speaker, I rise tonight to draw your personal attention to gross abuses of Standing Orders of the House of Representatives last Thursday evening, which abuses I believe warrant your attention and the attention of the House. I wish to outline the facts. Firstly, at about 5.48 p.m. on Thursday 2 1 November I was correctly called by the  Deputy Speaker, Mr Scholes,  to speak on the Banking Bill 1974. A member of the Opposition had been the previous  speaker  so naturally the call came to the Government side of the House. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  then abused the forms of the House by seeking the call on a point of order which did not exist. Secondly, when the  Deputy Speaker  properly put him in his place by reasonably pointing out that he could not have the call because he had already spoken in the debate, and anyway the call belonged to the Government side of the House, the  Deputy Speaker  went on to say: 
There are certain procedures to be followed in this House which even the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has to follow. 
The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  with characteristic arrogance, proceeded to abuse Standing Orders by rising allegedly on a point of order to hurl abuse at the  Deputy Speaker  by saying: 
We do not have to have insults of that kind. 
That was, I believe, the pot calling the kettle black, if ever I heard it. 
Thirdly, 10 minutes later the forms of the House were grossly abused once again by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition interrupting my speech by rising to take a non-existent point of order concerning which Minister was looking after the Bill in the House and then proceeding to attempt to move a motion which he did not have the slightest right to move. I believe there is no precedent in the House for that disgraceful behaviour. I repeat that it is quite unprecedented. Fourthly, when this abuse of Standing Orders was correctly pointed out to him by the  Deputy Speaker,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition added insult to injury by moving a dissent from the Chair's ruling on no grounds whatsoever, once again grossly abusing Standing Orders. Fifthly, the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  was also grossly culpable by seconding this spurious dissent motion. The right honourable gentleman failed to take his call to speak to it. In fact, he gave way to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  whom the  Deputy Speaker  thought wanted to speak in the debate on the dissent motion but who indeed wanted to speak in the Banking Bill debate. Then the Leader of the Country Party had the hide to abuse Standing Orders still further by seeking to move yet another dissent motion. Hansard pages 3899 to 3902 show quite clearly that he had no grounds whatsoever for doing this. 
Sixthly- this is my final point- at this stage,  Mr Speaker,  I was still seeking to speak on the Banking Bill but was prevented from doing so by further non-existent points of order taken by the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  and the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  who were warned but not named. By then, my time had expired and so, I repeat, I was prevented by abuses of the Standing Orders from exercising my rights in this House to partake fully in the debate on the Banking Bill 1 974. In short, my rights to speak were shockingly curtailed. 
To summarise, in my opinion this disgraceful episode is just one more example of the rowdyism of the Opposition parties in this chamber. I believe that members of the parliamentary Liberal and Country parties must, by this persistent larrikinism in this Parliament, be seeking to bring about the downfall of the parliamentary system in Australia. It is not so much the Australian Labor Government which will suffer, it will be our whole system. I believe that the 5 members I have mentioned in the course of these remarks deserved to be named and thrown out of the chamber at the time. This was not done because of the understandable leniency of the  Deputy Speaker.  I believe the 5 members deserve to be severely reprimanded and made to apologise. Let me identify them again: The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the Leader of the Australian Country Party, the honourable members for Curtin, Cowper and Gippsland. These were the main culprits, aided and abetted by the rowdyism from the Opposition benches on that occasion. I believe it is my duty to draw this disgraceful episode to your attention,  Mr Speaker,  and to the attention of the House. This is just another episode in a long history of rowdyism since these people, who think they were born to rule, were thrown deservedly into opposition. 
The Treasurer will be aware of the liquidity difficulties being experienced by many companies and, resulting from these difficulties, the representations made for the deferment of the quarterly company tax instalment which was due a couple of weeks ago. The Treasurer announced earlier that the Australian Taxation Office would consider sympathetically an application by any company for deferment of the instalment. Is the Treasurer now in a position to say how many companies have paid up, how many have applied for deferment? Of those, how many have so far been granted a deferment and how many have been refused? Finally, how many companies have yet to contact the Australian Taxation Office on this subject? If the Treasurer is not in a position to give this information is he yet in a position to form an opinion as to whether or not a general deferment for those who have not paid is in order? 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a short statement concerning an inquiry by the Joint Committee on Prices. 
-We are debating the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Bill 1974. It is a simple Bill which comes at the end of a very heavy legislative session. It merely extends for 12 more months legislation which was produced for this Parliament and passed through this Parliament in the life of the LiberalCountry Party Government under Prime Minister McMahon. I have had the job in this debate of listening to 3 Opposition speakers- two from the Liberal Party, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  and one from the Australian Country Party, the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)-  with a watching brief because members of the Government Party have not taken their turn in this debate due to the heavy legislative program. Frankly, I am wondering what I can do with that brief because there is so little to answer. There have been many generalities but not much of a particular nature. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  who will follow me in this debate, has promised that he will bring up the case of one or two companies and be more specific. I am sorry I do not have the advantage of following him because perhaps there might have been something of substance about which I could have commented at that stage. Perhaps the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  will be able to comment on those matters when closing this debate. 
As I said, the Bill merely extends the operations of an Act which was brought into this Parliament by the Opposition when it was in government. We have heard from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition such phrases as 'dereliction of duty' and suggestions that we, on the Government side, are being ambivolent or equivocal in merely following the previous Government's legislation. I am the first to admit that the legislation does have some bad disadvantages, that it does have some holes in it which need to be filled, but this is a complicated sphere. The Government has been working hard at drawing up guidelines. I hope I will find time later to mention the foreign equity participation guidelines as they relate to the mining industry. It is one thing to have the guidelines but another to translate those guidelines into complicated legislation. If we had brought into this Parliament at this stage of the parliamentary session such complicated legislation with a view to getting it through before 3 1 December, the Opposition would have criticised that action as well. 
Surely no honourable member opposite is suggesting that the legislative program has not been sufficiently full for us to have plenty of excuses not to have brought this on any earlier than now. Each one of us in the Parliament meets criticism in the community and is asked: 'Why are you people always bickering? Why is it that the Opposition is always opposing everything that the Government does? Is there not plenty of legislation on which you can agree?' I have to own up and explain to the people that often the Opposition does agree with the Government on legislation going through this place but we do not hear about that because it does not make the headlines in the newspapers and it does not take time in this House. 
I am glad the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  is here and agrees with me that we do hear these criticisms and that my answer is a correct one. I suggest that this piece of legislation should have come within that category. There is every reason why this Bill to extend the original legislation introduced by the Opposition when in government should not be hurried but should be mulled over carefully, and that the guidelines which have been produced should be very carefully translated into legislation. 
I think the sorts of speeches we have heard from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Parramatta and, to a lesser extent from the honourable member for 
Paterson, do not do justice to them. I deal first with the comments made by the honourable member for Paterson. He talked about an 'about-face' in relation to Labor Party policy in this matter. A 'reversal' was another word he used to describe it.  His  assertion is just not true. The Labor Party's platform is quite clear in relation to foreign investment. It is as follows: 
Establish clearer guidelines Tor overseas investors, for the benefit both of these investors and of the Australian community. Overseas investment in Australia to be encouraged only where it introduces new technology and expertise, includes plans for Australian participation in the enterprise and/or otherwise shows itself to be in Australia's national interest. 
That has been the policy of this Party both before it came to government and since. But we have to see the implementation of that policy in the context of the economy. 
There is little doubt that when we came to power in December 1972 funds were flowing into Australia as they have never flowed in before. The banks had money flowing out of their ears because our currency was undervalued and because there was inadequate legislation and inadequate administration to stop this money flowing into the country. The Act which this Bill seeks to extend was- to use the words of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  when he led for the Labor Party, when in Opposition, during the debate on this legislation which became law- a death bed repentance on the part of the Liberals. For 23 years there was no legislation covering foreign takeovers of our companies and suddenly there was this death bed repentance and this legislation came into force. 
I have mentioned that the Act does have some deficiencies but it has not been all that bad. We have not heard any specific proposals from the Opposition as to what are those deficiencies. We are still anticipating, of course, what the honourable member for Bradfield may have to say; but the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, in his generalities, did not mention specific areas where the legislation is deficient. I will mention a couple of areas in which there are deficiencies but they are not loopholes that are easily closed. The weakness of the existing law is manifest especially in the incapacity to screen the takeover of assets and companies which are foreign controlled but which have a small Australian equity. In addition, Australian acquisition and examination of foreigner to foreigner deals are two of the areas which, I hope, the new legislation will cover. This is being specific but I have not heard anything of that nature from the Opposition so far. 
Also, the Opposition completely overlooked that since this legislation was introduced we have had much more administration over the inflow of funds relating to foreign exchange. There is now a Committee on Foreign Investment which is examining funds flowing into this country- not only funds which are being used to take over Australian companies, which is the subject of this Bill, but also funds which are generally flowing into this country. That Committee screens all transactions coming under the foreign exchange regulations. That is something which has been totally overlooked but which has been a very worthwhile tool of government in ensuring, as we on this side of the House want to ensure, that the assets of Australia are not going to be owned abroad and that decisions, for instance in respect of the motor industry in which I as the member for Adelaide am most interested, are not taken in Detroit but in Australia. 
I do not think there is one objective Australian who would do anything but recognise that since the Labor Party came to power there has been a new feeling of nationalism in Australia. The Government has been able to use this death bed repentance of the Opposition Parties very effectively. Having conceded that there are a few loopholes in this legislation and that new legislation is needed, there point out that the existing legislation, and the Committee on Foreign Investment to which I have referred, have done a worthwhile job in ensuring that not too many of our assets are owned abroad. We have yet to buy back Australia, but at least since Labor took over we have not been selling off any more of Australia, and this is one of the very strong points of this Government which will be recognised again and again when we go to the polls. One of the criticisms made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  was that there were very unclear guidelines in relation to what foreigners could do in relation to takeovers of Australian companies and what they could not.  Mr Speaker,  I want to draw to your attention an article dealing with the Committee on Foreign Takeovers which appeared in the 'Australian' on 16 February 1974. The article stated: 
The Committee on Foreign Takeovers- the body which vets overseas bids and makes recommendations about them to the Treasurer- has embarked on a program to explain its role. 
It was in February 1974 that that program started. The then  chairman  of the Committee,  Mr Sharah.  apparently spoke on a number of occasions to very many different bodies of accountants, investors and others explaining the rules that were being used by the Committee on 
Foreign Takeovers. It is not true that this has been a bad example of open government. It was a good example of open government when the Treasurer made  Mr Sharah's  time available lor him to speak to such groups throughout the community. I know that  Mr Sharah  outlined at these meetings the information his committee was seeking, and indeed still does seek. He also gave a good indication of what a bidder needs to take into account if he is to succeed in his approach for a company and if he is to succeed in his application to the Committee. The article continues: 
High on the Government's list, for example. is the introduction of a new technology or new products to Australia as a result of a takeover . . . 
High on that list also is the establishment of new markets for Australian produce. These are some of the guidelines laid down by the Committee and they follow, of course, the platform of the Australian Labor Party, as I have indicated earlier. The article goes on: 
The foreign takeovers scheme is actually administered  by  a staff of 20, comprising 14 graduates in economics, engineering, science or arts, two accountants and four clerks. 
Is it not open government to explain not only what are the committee's guidelines but of what they are made up? Furthermore, I have evidence of this open government in the fact that the Committee has also indicated to the community that the requirements spelt out by  Mr Sharah  were that details must be given about production, quality and range of products and services, cost and distribution efficiency, managerial, technological and viability of the proposal. That is open government, explaining to the community just what the Committee is looking at in this matter of foreign takeovers. The article goes on, referring to the Committee 's staff: 
They are split in five teams each of four persons. Two teams are involved in preliminary investigations, one on detailed investigation and one team functions as a secretariat. The fifth team is engaged on what is known as executive assistance, involving liaison with ministerial officers, publication and notification of orders, press releases, reports to ministers, etc. 
Where a clear need for a foreign takeover is established, it rarely goes past the preliminary examination stage. Others go to detailed examination to allow time for careful  examination  of complex benefit arguments. 
This is the work of the Committee of Foreign Takeovers which is so vital to ensure that our assets are not being gobbled up by those living abroad. 
Finally, I want to mention the guidelines that the Prime Minister has announced in relation to mining companies. During the recent visit to Australia by the Prime Minister of Japan the opportunity was taken by the Australian Government to release these guidelines for foreign  equity participation in and control of the mining industry of Australia. Australia's Prime Minister said that the guidelines were a development of the policy he had outlined in Tokyo last year and should be read in conjunction with the recent statement by the Australian Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  on the Government's program for the development of the uranium resources in the Northern Territory. The guidelines fell into 6 separate headings: Development in Australian interests, equity control and ownership, roles for the public and private sectors, exploration, processing and consultations with the Australian Government. Unfortunately, I did not have an opportunity to show this document to the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  who is at the table, as he came into the House only shortly before I came to my feet. This is an article entitled 'Australia Invites Foreign Equity Participation', published in 'CACCI  Newsletter', and it sets out the guidelines in relation to mining and foreign takeovers. I seek permission to incorporate this article in Hansard. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on Prices I bring up the report of the Committee on the practice of retailers repricing existing stock, together with the minutes of proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be reprinted. 
I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard a short statement on the report. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on Prices I bring up the Committee's report from the Import Prices InquiryPrice Effects of Currency Changes (Report No. 3), and minutes of proceedings of the appropriate committee meetings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a statement in connection with the report. I might add that I have arranged for copies to be available in the House for honourable members. 
-by leave-I present the transcript of evidence taken by the Joint Committee on Prices during a briefing session on the Consumer Price Index. I ask for leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard a statement in connection with that transcript. Before you seek leave,  Mr Speaker,  I wish to inform the House that copies of this statement are available in the chamber and will be sent to members' offices. 
-I have listened in vain in this debate to find a justification for the raising of this so-called matter of public importance. I believe that it can be summed up as a damp squib. In fact, what the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  has said virtually is that we live under an economic system which is subject to trade cycles and to stop and go practices. In fact, we all suffer from it, no matter which party is in power. Certainly the honourable member pointed out accurately that policies have to change, and thank goodness we have had in power a Government which is responsive to the changes in the economy and changes its policies accordingly. There is no doubt also that businessmen's confidence is one of the main factors involved in the working of the capitalist system which we have, and it is indeed a fickle flower. But businessmen's confidence is not helped in any way by the sort of attitudes that have been adopted and the sort of actions that are threatened by the Liberal and Country Parties in Australia which have brought about the political instability that exists. If the creation of this lack of businessmen's confidence can be said to be the fault of this chamber, we can point the finger very justifiably at every honourable member opposite for creating that political instability. 
Let us look at some of the policies that have been instituted by this Government in order to bolster the confidence of businessmen whose investment decisions are important to the rate of economic activity in Australia. There have been successive reductions in the statutory reserve deposit ratios from June through to October, which lowered the ratio from 9 per cent to 3 per cent. Is the Opposition suggesting that that is not one of the effective remedies for the present situation that started many months ago? I repeat, the ratios have been reduced from 9 per cent to 3 per cent and have helped to bolster demand. There is nothing that will do more for businessmen's confidence and their investment decisions than making sure that there is demand in the community needed for the purchase of the goods which that private sector is making. This, of course, has increased enormously the ability of banks to lend and banks are lending. 
There have been various measures to revive the housing industry, including a change in September last in the 60/40 ratio for savings banks. The ratio was changed to 50/50. It allowed savings banks to lend more for housing. An allocation of $150m for housing was made on 12 November last. Does anybody suggest that this was not a measure to remedy a lack of demand in the community? Does anybody suggest that it has not been effective? If we listen to the wails and the whingeing, to coin an excellent phrase, from the Opposition, we would have thought that indeed there would not have been the same capacity in the building industry to produce the same desire to produce the houses as we are experiencing at present. But there has been an upturn in the building industry, and it has not been due to the efforts of the Opposition that that has happened. Thirdly, there has been the elimination of the variable deposit requirements, reduced from 25 per cent to 5 per cent on 8 August and eliminated on 10 November. There has been the reduction of the embargo on overseas borrowings from a minimum of 2 years to a rninimum of 6 months to encourage foreign capital inflow. That last policy change was made in November. 
Is this the action of a Government that is not very aware of the need to bolster investment in the private sector? It certainly is not. One Opposition member suggests that this is desperate action. Is he going to suggest to us that it is action that should not have been taken? Is he suggesting to us that, when those embargo measures were introduced soon after this Government took office in December 1972, they should not have been introduced, when so much in foreign funds was flowing into this country and the banks had money running out of their ears? 
I quote what the 'Australian Financial Review' had to say on 10 October about the situation we took over: 
The McMahon Government ... for electoral reasons, promoted a rate of monetary expansion which was totally unjustifiable in its rapidity and which, with the accompanying rate of capital inflow, was mainly responsible for the demand inflation of 1972-73 and the inevitable consequence of the current cost inflation. This is something which has been said often enough before but which should not be forgotten in the heat of political controversy . . . 
I repeat that statement. I have said it myself often enough in this chamber. But it is not good enough for the honourable member for Balaclava or the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  to rise in this chamber and suggest that it is domestic management in this country that has created this present economic situation when an independent observer, such as a leader writer of the 'Australian Financial Review', can put the real blame so succinctly. 
I continue to list the remedies which this Australian Labor Government has initiated to overcome these difficulties with this fickle flower, the businessmen's confidence. I have outlined three of the Government's proposals. I turn to the fourth step it has taken, that is, the devaluation of 12 per cent announced on 25 September which was roughly equivalent to a 40 per cent increase in tariffs. The fifth measure was successive reductions in Treasury note yields from 10.75 per cent on 13-week notes and 10.76 per cent on 26-week notes in mid 1974 to 7.8 per cent and 8 per cent respectively as announced on January 9. The list is as long as my arm. The sixth action is revision of the September Budget policy from a balanced domestic budget to a large domestic deficit. The next is a range of protective measures for domestic import-competing industries, such as textiles, footwear, automobiles, and so on, designed to create employment in Australia. 
The eighth point I mention is the comprehensive, across the board, cuts in income tax dating from 1 January this year. This was followed by the investment allowances decision. The only practical suggestion we heard from the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in his 15-minute speech was that this should be extended to primary production manufacturing. Perhaps that is a worthwhile suggestion, I am not going to argue the merits of that now. But to bring on a debate and to take up the time of this House by suggesting there have not been effective remedies to overcome the private sector investment crisis, socalled, when one can read out a list of about 1 5 remedies, all of which have been effective in overcoming the fact that private investment is less than it ought to be, is, I repeat, to take up the time of this House unnecessarily. 
On top of all that, to suggest, as the honourable member for Balaclava has done in his speech, that this trade cycle is not to a large extent world promoted, also is misleading the members of this House. Of course it is. Is anybody going to suggest that the decline in the demand for our beef, the imposts that have been put on beef imports into Japan, the Europen Economic Community and the United States of America, have not affected the beef industry. Is anybody going to suggest that, with the beef producers having less in their pockets from selling their products, this does not affect the level of demand in this community? What about the price of wool? Is that not determined on the world market? Is not the fact that the world trade is in a slump affecting the level of demand in this country and therefore the investment decisions of businessmen in this country? Is anybody going to tell us that we are not one of the great trading nations- per capita, one of the greatest trading nations- and that, indeed, any of the factors that are affecting world demand are not going to affect us here? Is anybody going to suggest there is not a decline in private sector investment in New Zealand, the United States of America, Great Britain and Japan, and that as a great trading nation this does not affect us enormously in this country? 
The fact is that this Government is aware of the need for private sector investment. It is aware that private sector investment is so important in order to provide full employment. The Australian Labor Party, in Terrigal, has written this into its platform. It was always implicit; now it is explicit. There is the need to overcome the paranoia of some members from the other side of this House and, indeed, of some businessmen who make these decisions. All in all, this debate has been a waste of time in this House. I have not even concluded the list of the measures this Government has taken. 
I wholeheartedly support both Bills. I think that the kindest way in which I can possibly describe the speech of the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  is to say that he has been snowed by big business. It is very sad that we are obliged to listen to that sort of speech being made in this House declaring the interests of big business as it relates to these measures. This is the fourth time in 1 8 months in which we have had the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill before us. This is the second time in which the Bill has come before us in this form. Thank goodness there has been an eleventh hour conversion on the part of most of the members of the Opposition towards the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill because it is a measure that is in the national interest. 
I remind the House that we can thank  Sir John  McEwen and perhaps colleagues of his in the Australian Country Party that we have the Corporation at all. Certainly, from the speech of the right honourable member for Lowe, it is no credit to him that we have this Corporation. It is probably because of him that we have it in a form in which if not both hands at least one hand of the Corporation is tied behind its back. So it cannot do the job for Australia properly; indeed. so it cannot ensure that so many worthwhile developments which require investment are given the funds that are necessary to carry out that investment. I have a note in front of me to the effect that a major manufacturing venture in Victoria that is over 75 per cent Australian owned was able to proceed only when the AIDC brought together the Australian partners. But there are so many other areas in which ventures such as that have foundered because of the restrictions placed upon the AIDC at the present dme. The arguments against it can all be answered. 
Those who listened to the speech of the honourable member for Lowe will know that he again brought up the old clap-trap about nationalisation by stealth and implied that the Government will use the new national interest division of the AIDC as a back door for nationalisation. We have heard that time and time again. We want the AIDC to participate in major new development, especially in the minerals sector, and, through the national interest processes, the Government will be able to help it do just that. But it is simply not true that the.Government can take over an industry or even buy a shareholding under the AIDC Bill. Any investment the Government makes through the national interest mechanism will require a separate Act of Parliament, if only to appropriate the funds for the purpose. So there will always be the opportunity for specific debates on the issue in this House. In addition to that, the national interest machinery provides for a commercial evaluation by the AIDC in every case and for the independent advice of a national interest committee. So I hope that we will not hear that argument brought up against this Bill again. 
Then there is the matter of the cost of money that may result from these changes. The argument goes that the National Investment Fund will siphon off funds otherwise going to government and semi-government authorities, thus adding to the cost of government borrowing. I repeat again that the Fund will be offering equity type investments, that is, investments offering potential capital growth in which neither the capital sum nor the income is guaranteed. Such investments are not at all competitive with government or semi-government securities. These things have been said before but it seems that when one is dealing with the right honourable member for Lowe they require repeating time and time again. The Government has been elected on this measure and re-elected on this measure. The fact is that the whole purpose of the AIDC is, firstly, to finance development and growth in the private sector and, secondly, to secure the ownership and control of Australian industries by Australians. But it cannot do that job properly with the present restrictions placed upon it. There are too many of those restrictions. It cannot even help co-operatives in this country. I hope that, in particular, the members of the Australian Country Party or those interested in co-operatives, whether they are co-operatives relating to fruit, fishing, milk or any other agricultural enterprise, will realise that one of the purposes of the changes contained in the Bill now before the Parliament is to enable the Australian Industry Development Corporation to invest funds in those co-operatives to help to make them more valuable to the communities they serve. 
Another attack that is made on the AIDC is that it has the effect of taking the place of private enterprise. I will defend that. When we look at the history of where so much of the investment of this country has gone in recent years- into highrise buildings in capital cities when wonderful new projects like the Hamersley iron ore project have fallen to such an enormous extent into the hands of investors overseas- we must defend the fact that the market mechanism of private enterprise, of the private sector, as outlined by the right honourable member for Lowe, does not do the job properly in the interests of Australians. We need a public body such as this. Although it is almost exclusively run by businessmen with experience in the private sector, they have a new criteria. They are not thinking just of their private shareholders and the sorts of dividends those shareholders will receive. They are thinking of the national interest instead. I know that the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has paid a tribute to those businessmen on many occasions for the job they have done, but they themselves must realise that they must do so much more because there is so much work to be done to ensure that the industries of this country are owned by Australians and do not require so much investment from abroad. 
I repeat that the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill will remove the restrictions placed upon the AIDC. The National Investment Fund Bill provides the opportunity ibr so many ordinary citizens- the little investors in this country- to have a part of the act, to provide funds for the Australian Industry Development Corporation. Both measures are closely interlinked. Funds are needed. Such a measure as the National Investment Fund Bill is needed so that those funds will be made available. I promised the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  that I would not take any more than a few minutes to speak on these measures. I repeat that I am glad that most of the members of the Liberal Party have been converted and will be supporting at least the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. I believe that they are doing so in the interests of the Australian community. I trust that at a future time they will have new heart on the National Investment Fund Bill and ensure that the necessary funds are available from the small investors in this country so that we can get on with the job of developing enterprises in the minerals and manufacturing sector and of securing the ownership of those enterprises by Australians. 
My question is to the Minister for Health. Are sufficient doctors graduating from Australian medical schools to satisfy our needs? Can something be done to ensure that those entering medical schools are not only academically the most brilliant students, nearly all of whom want to be specialists? Has he noticed the suggestion of the Doctors Reform Society that there should be assistant doctors? How can we obtain more salt of the earth doctors, namely, general practitioners with a social conscience? 
Government supporters- No. 
-I congratulate the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  for at least, in his consideration of clause 20 (2) (c), getting away from the detailed comments and recommendations on this Bill as put forward by the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges. This was one that obviously came from the honourable member himself, as indeed has one other. I say this to draw into focus exactly what is happening in the Committee stage of this debate. Some of us have a document of 86 pages relating to about 86 or more separate clauses and sub-clauses of this Bill. They are detailed comments from the body that I have mentioned, the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges. It is no tribute to the members of the Opposition who are rising in this debate merely sycophants of the ideas in this document, because from the research that I have done I have found that there were 6 separate committees of the 6 stock exchanges around this country which have studied the Bill in detail and have come up with the sort of - 
I would like to add my voice to those who are asking the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to have another look at this provision. I believe in public enterprise in competition with private enterprise. I am a strong supporter of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. But at the same time I think there is an analogy with the Commonwealth Bank under the leadership of the Reserve Bank. It is not a perfect analogy but the Commonwealth Bank is in the same field, of course, as the private trading banks and follows the same rules. I was on the board of one of the State savings banks which did not come under the leadership of the Reserve Bank but which as a government corporation nevertheless decided of its own accord to follow the rules set down by the umpire which in that case was the Reserve Bank. I think in the same way, in a field such as this, the AIDC, operating in exactly the same area as many corporations which have to be registered, could well benefit itself by being seen to be part of that market and by being obliged to register under this Bill. I have said before, and I am sure that the Attorney agrees, that there is time for a number of the suggestions to be looked at again. I would ask him in particular to look at this question. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 48. (Reports by registered corporations.) 
I have waited in vain in this debate to try to understand what the Liberal-Country Party Opposition really wants. What is its approach to this Bill? It is one thing to nit pick and to suggest individual changes to various clauses of the Bill, but it is another thing to tell this House in a second reading debate whether the Opposition wants a Corporations and Exchange Commission such as the one proposed in this BUI. The fact is that the philosophy of honourable members opposite puts them into a tremendous dilemma. They are on record in many different places as paying lip service to the idea that they want a national companies Act and a national securities Act, but when it comes to the point of putting that into effect they go to water. Opposition members want to pretend that they will take the part of the small investor when there is a boom and the stock exchanges are going mad; but when it comes to actually deciding how that is to be achieved they listen to the voices of vested interests and they go to water. There is no other way of explaining it. 
There is a perfect analogy to this in the restrictive trade practices legislation. There is one small difference: At the time that concept was brought by them into this Parliament when they were in power they had a man of principle in  Sir Garfield  Barwick to do so. But then, of course, they mutilated the ideas that he brought to the Parliament so that the eventual legislation, amended time and again, meant nothing. Then a reform Government took over in this country and we achieved a Trade Practices Act which meant something. On this occasion they enjoy being in Opposition where they do not have to commit themselves as to just what their line will be. They can merely criticise the stand that has been taken. They want the Bill withdrawn. Like those opposing the Family Law Bill, they want it withdrawn. That is just an easy way of saying that they do not want to commit themselves to any sort of legislation such as this or to any reforms. Anybody would think that this issue had not been before the nation and had not been considered for years by all the people who are interested in this field. Of course it has been. I turn to the work of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Australia, of which I am a member. I would like to read from an article which appeared in the 'Australian Financial Review' as long ago as April 1970. The article reads: 
The Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia warns against duplication of State control of companies in a federal body. 
That is the essence of what the Opposition is getting at in relation to this Bill. Opposition members cannot pretend to be State righters and at the same time advocate the introduction of effective legislation in this field. They still pretend that a uniform Companies Act will work. The article continues: 
An editorial in the Institute's official journal 'The Chartered Accountant in Australia' says that the States have the power and the responsibility for the control of companies. 
If events show that proper control cannot be exercised at State level, then surely the remedy does not lie in the setting up of a duplicate Commonwealth Administration', the editorial said. 
It would seem obvious that the better course would be for the States to relinquish their powers and let control of companies be solely a Commonwealth matter'. 
A similar comment was made by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. In this case I do not have to go back quite so far, only to July-August 1972. The editorial in that issue of The Chartered Secretary' is headed 'Need for a Commonwealth Companies Act' and reads: 
Just a decade ago uniform company legislation was attempted in Australia, a concept which relied upon continuous co-operation between all seven Governments and  unaninimity  of amendments considered necessary. The tenth anniversary - 
The article was written back in 1 972-  finds us with a ragged state of affairs. Amendments have varied in the State Acts and Territory Ordinances, both as to content and date of introduction. Some Acts have been amended this year, some have not. Over the period, some draft legislation has been delayed or put aside entirely, for various reasons including local influence, and often after considerable committee work and public ventilation. To prevent abandonment of the principle of uniformity, some legislation has inevitably been enacted which brought with it inconsistency and lack of precision and certainty. 
The editorial goes on in that vein. Yet the Opposition says that the concept of making it a national Corporations and Securities Industry Bill is something new. The fact is, of course, that it cannot accept the position that only by having Commonwealth legislation and throwing overboard its archaic abeisance to State rightism can this be achieved. It will not commit itself, I repeat, as to what it would do. Let me just draw attention to that point. I refer to a paragraph which appeared in the 'Sydney Morning Herald ' on 3 1 January which dealt with a seminar which was held in the Wentworth Hotel on 30 January of this year. The article reads: 
But  Senator Greenwood  backed off from committing the Opposition to any specific course of action, except to say that the Bill should not be rushed through. 
The Opposition is still saying that the Bill should not be rushed through, almost a month later. When is it going to commit itself? We have heard the comments of a number of Opposition supporters on this Bill, but really they made, I think, only one legitimate claim and that was in relation to appeals against particular decisions of the Commission. That matter is taken care of in the amendments which the Attorney General  (Mr Enderby)  has already brought before the House. I believe that he would have already said- if he has not, I say it now- that all of the submissions on the details of this Bill will continue to be looked at. It is some weeks before the Bill will get through the Senate, if indeed the Senate does discuss the Bill at all. 
Let me point out also that this is only the first of 2 Bills of this nature which must come before the Parliament. Of course, there must be a National Companies Act as well, covering all of those areas which have not been covered by this Bill in relation to corporations. The AttorneyGeneral has said in his second reading speech that when the second measure comes before the Parliament it will be amalgamated with this Bill. There will be another occasion for everbody interested to put forward ideas on the detail of the Bill to ensure that it is properly considered. I commend the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges. As the member for Adelaide, I was given promptly on my request, after receiving a telegram from the  chairman  of the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges,  Mr Tom  Phillips, telling me that it was available, a document setting out the detailed comments and recommendations on the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill. Far more worthwhile work has been put into this document than the Opposition has put into the formulation of its attitude, as displayed in the debate both last night and this afternoon. 
The Opposition is not against the overall concept of the Bill, as I see it. I have not been able to read that into  Mr Valder's  comments either, which I read in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 13 February. As I said, I analysed his article in great depth. If I have not already said it, I say it now. It seems that the right of appeal was the only major disagreement that he had. Of course nobody in his position is going to enjoy a Commission such as the one which is proposed to be set up and which will be watching over the activities of the Stock Exchange. But I read into that article no strong conviction that that is not inevitable. One would expect such people to put up a rearguard action on it. When it came to the details of the Bill, I repeat that it was only the right of appeal that meant anything to me. 
I come back to the point I was making about the detailed comments of the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges, a copy of which I have in my hand. This document will, of course, be studied in great detail and there will be many other opportunities for its recommendations to be incorporated in amendments if they are found to be of substance. The extraordinary attitude of the Opposition is really highlighted in a report in today's 'Australian Financial Review' on the contribution made to the debate yesterday by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  The article reads: 
He said that the Opposition opposed the blending of corporations and securities industries laws into the one legislative enactment. 
These 2 aspects should be kept divisible and separate and should be administered by 2 regulatory bodies .... 
Why? Yet again no explanation is given as to why that should be so. Perhaps the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  who is to follow me in this debate will give me an explanation. It seems to me that if we have 2 regulatory bodies we are getting away from one of the great virtues in this Bill, namely, the industry itself knowing with whom it is dealing. At the moment we are trying to overcome the shocking anomalies and inconsistencies created in the Companies Acts which provide for seven different bodies to deal with people who operate in this field. Why does the Opposition want to break down the 7 bodies to 2 bodies? Why does it not want just one body? In that case everybody would know with whom he is dealing. People would know the attitude of one regulatory body and then have a right of appeal against the decisions of that body. Later on the  Deputy  'Leader of the Opposition showed more inconsistency in the attitude which he took. I read again from the report in this' morning's 'Australian Financial Review': 

 Mr Lynch 's speech, however, did point up something of a dichotomy in the Opposition 's argument. 
On the one hand it is saying that many of the powers of the Commission are too wide and arbitrary, while on the other aspects, it says, the Commission should nave stronger powers  In other words he is indicating that the Commission should have the power to act more quickly and decisively. 
At the same time the Opposition complains that the Commission can act without any regard for review by an aggrieved party. 
It is completely inconsistent for the Deputy Leader of the Opposition to criticise the way in which the Commission can work on the one hand, because there are safeguards against its acting too pre-emptorily and, on the other hand, to say that there are not sufficient safeguards. That completely signifies the dichotomy of thinking that is exemplified generally in the Opposition's attitude to this Bill. Apart from the 2 professional journals from which I have quoted and which show that those working in this field particularly recognise the strong need for a national approach, I want to quote also from an article in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 8 November 1973. The article, which is headed Most company men favour Federal law', reads: 
There exists a multiplicity of organisations which claim to represent business, to know the attitudes and needs of business or particular sectors of the business community. 
In recent times these organisations have made many assertions and claims. One in particular was made by  Mr Williams, president  of the Australian Chamber of Commerce and a similar view was expressed by  Mr Irvine,  a solicitor speaking for the Institute of Public Affairs (New South Wales). 
How these gentlemen reached their conclusions - 
The conclusion that a national approach was not needed- is not known though  Mr Williams  has stated to the writer - 
Harry H. Rappaport of the School of Economic and Financial Studies at Macquarie University- that no survey was attempted. Both have categorically stated that the business community is strongly opposed to the idea of federal companies legislation. 
Some weeks ago, and prior to the dissemination of the above assertions, a questionnaire was prepared which, among other things, asked that views be expressed relating to the desirability of: 
Federal companies law; 
Federal securities industry law; and 
Federal registration of public accountants. 
The questionnaire was sent to 198 companies secretaries, S3 large firms of chartered accountants, 60 firms of stock brokers. 
The results of this survey as it relates to the above questions are tabulated below. 
I ask that leave be granted for that table to be incorporated in Hansard. Unfortunately the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  was not present earlier in the day for me to show it to him. 
I must support the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  in this matter. I cannot believe that any government, even a Liberal-Country Party government, would choose as a commissioner on a commission such as the one we are discussing in this Bill tonight a person with such Little integrity that he would not deduce from clause 26 (2) (c) that he must not be a director of any company that trades on a stock exchange. I do not accept the analogy of shareholding in this particular sphere but I would expect even then that the integrity would be such that there would not be a material shareholding. 
However, that is not my purpose in rising to my feet. I rise to point out that there is no other analogy between a dealer who is a member of a stock exchange or a partner of a member of a stock exchange in the context of clause 115 which- you do not have to draw my attention to the fact,  Mr Deputy Chairman-  we are discussing. A merchant banker was mentioned and so was an ordinary banker. I must draw to the attention of the Committee the fact that neither of those occupations is such that a commission is involved in the turnover of shares. That point is all-important when we are discussing the matter of whether a holder of a dealer's licence should be a director of a company. 
Let me interpose here the comment that I believe as a chartered accountant that those firms of chartered accountants in the western world which have laid down that their partners should not be directors of companies have done a service to the integrity of the professional community of this country. One such company is Price Waterhouse and Co., the largest of the firms of chartered accountants, and one with which I have had no personal dealings at all. I understand that that firm does lay that down, and I think it is something to be commended. It still does not prevent a dealer who is a member of a stock exchange or a partner of a member of a stock exchange being a capital market adviser to any company, but a person who is an adviser in a particular field in which he is well qualified is different from a person who is a director with all of the responsibilities of a director. 
I ask the Committee also to consider the fact that we are dealing with legislation which arises out of many problems which occurred in this country's capital market at the time of the boom, particularly the mining boom. I suggest to the Committee that if indeed the members of a stock exchange and the partners of members of a stock exchange who are dealers in this field had devoted their entire attention to the matters which were the subject of their main calling- in fact, they are dealers in that market- we might have had many fewer problems than we have had. It was the people who were the directors of Poseidon NL and directors of other companies involved in this field who are also members of the stock exchange who by their actions gave rise to so many of the problems which have been brought out by the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. I will not detain the Committee any longer. There are other points that I would like to make, but I merely say that I support clause 115 and hope it will not be altered. 
I ask the Minister for Education: What was the old system of so-called scholarships? What is the new system of student allowances? How would a reversion to the old system affect students? 
I have a grievance which I was unable to outline in the House last Thursday night so I am doing so tonight. It relates to the South Australian project known as the proposed Redcliffs petrochemical industry. Honourable members will know that during the recent recess an announcement was made in South Australia that this project had been postponed for 2 years. Let me make this quite clear: I am in this Parliament for a number of reasons, but one of the main reasons is to fight for a fair go for South Australia. South Australia is not endowed with the natural resources of most other States of this country but it has one great advantage, and that is the quality and stability of its people. But its people, its work force, need opportunities and the South Australian Labor Government and indeed Labor members of this Australian Parliament are dedicated to creating those opportunities. 

 Mr Speaker, you can imagine our disappointment, indeed, in my case resentment, on learning that the establishment of one of the new great industries for my State was to be delayed for 2 years. This delay is not only a blow to South Australia but to the whole of our country. The reason for this is that the delay is causing a serious wastage of energy resources. I should like to explain the situation to honourable members. 
The natural gas which is being extracted from the Cooper Basin in the north of South Australia by a group of producer companies led by Santos and Delhi can be divided roughly speaking into 4 components- methane, ethane, propane and butane. As I understand it, some of the wells, what we call the wetter wells, have more ethane, propane and butane in relation to methane than do the other wells, the drier ones. At the moment natural gas is being extracted only from the drier wells, so it is mainly methane which is being produced, and this is all that we are geared to use in South Australia for domestic and industrial purposes. But shortly these drier wells are going to be finished and the producers are going to have to produce from the wetter wells. Here is where the wastage occurs. The valuable ethane, propane and butane- I say for the education of the very ignorant members of the Australian Country Party- will merely have to be used or burnt at the well-head- instead of being used as an essential feedstock in a petrochemical industry. It is like champagne being poured down the drain. This is a shocking wastage in an energy lacking world. 
Well, where are we to turn to lay the blame? No one in the Liberal or Country Parties or the Liberal Movement take any comfort from what I am about to say. If anything, they are the culprits. I believe that if the Australian Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)-  indeed our Australian Labor Government- had not been frustrated by the Opposition all along the line in seeking to set up our Petroleum and Minerals Authority, the cornerstone in our battle to ensure Australian ownership and control of our own energy resources, there would not be this delay and this wastage. 
Then let us look at the attitudes of  Dr Bruce  Eastick, who leads the Liberal Party Opposition in the South Australian State Parliament, and  Senator Steele  Hall, who leads the Liberal Movement, and is that Party's only representative in this Parliament. Their attitude about this project' has been nothing but one of cynicism. One would think that South Australia did not need a petrochemical industry if one had listened to them over the last four or five years. One would think that it did not matter that the ethane and the propane and the butane would be wasted. They have done little but hamper the South Australian Premier, Don Dunstan, in his efforts to organise and obtain this industry for my State. 
So what do we do now? I believe that there are two decisions which could be taken immediately which would reduce the 2-year delay and hasten the establishment of this petrochemical industry. The first policy initiative which must, in my view, be made now is to invite the Dow Chemical Company back into the field as the base of a possible consortium to develop this petrochemical industry. I believe it was a mistake built on a misunderstanding when the project was given exclusively to the ICI Mitsubishi group to develop- before any commitments were put in writing. It is my conviction, after talking to many different people, that the ICI company has never been so motivated as Dow to ensure this project would get off the ground. ICI did not need it so badly. They have never had the same faith as Dow in what gas reserves would be proved in the Cooper Basin. ICI has been too cautious all the way. It is my belief that Dow would conform with the requirements for Australian investment participation in this scheme- and has been prepared for this for some time- which was the cause of the original misunderstanding. Let me make one more point. Too much of our Australian chemical industry is in the hands of ICI already. It would not be a bad thing for another company to have more. Let me also make it clear that I am no lobbyist for Dow; as far as I know I have never met in person any Dow executive. But I believe that Dow ought to be let back into the field to provide competition for ICI during this negotiating stage and it is my intuitive judgment that the Dow consortium would be the successful one. 
I wrote it myself. I have an interest in the petrochemical industry of South Australia which is more than any Liberal member in this House has. The second policy change which must be made in order to ensure this energy wastage of ethane, propane and butane does not continue, is for the Australian Government to remove its requirement for the propane and butane- the LPG- to be converted to petrol. I believe this is a wastage of energy resources. It is the heavy crude that we need, not so much the lighter petrol which results from this uneconomical conversion. We can export the propane and butane in return for a guaranteed supply of heavy crude, and the export price is badly needed, as far as I can ascertain, for this petrochemical industry to be viable and to get off the ground. 
This greater economic viability without the conversion of petrol does not apply only to the revenue which would be obtained for the products of this petrochemical industry as compared with the costs. It also relates to the amount of capital which is required to build the industrial plant. If there were no requirement for what I suggest is the energy wasteful and mighty expensive conversion to petrol, then I understand that the value of plant saved- the investment capital which would not have to be foundwould be about $70m. This $70m saving is about half of the enormous figure being requested by the State Government from the Australian Government for the necessary infrastructure at Redcliffs, that is, for the housing, harbour and so on. I believe that the consortium itself could then find the capital and build all the infrastructure, as has been done with so many other great national development projects, such as Hamersley, Mt Newman and Gove. So, the Australian Government would not be required to find at least $l40m for this infrastructure; nor would the Australian Government be obliged to subsidise the conversion to petrol, which subsidy from the taxpayers would be essential if that conVersion idea were to prevail. Thus in one fell swoop yet another of the issues causing this tragic delay would be removed. 
Let me make one last point: At one stage I thought it would help this necessary developmental project enormously if it were built in the Adelaide metropolitan area instead of persisting with the decentralisation at Redcliffs. The problems of finding the investment funds for the infrastructure would be removed and environmental problems would not exist. I admit that I was wrong. The salt and brine near Redcliffs is essential for viability and, in my view, any environmental problems have been overcome satisfactorily. So at Redcliffs it must be. For the sake of all South Australians, even those Liberal Party members from that State who seem to be taking so little interest in this project, I appeal for these 2 changes in policy to be made- the Dow company to be back in the field and no petrol conversion to be made. I appeal to Labor's opponents in South Australia- I exclude the honourable member for Angas as I do not think he has been barking, as one or two others have been, during what I have said- to help and not, as hitherto, to hinder, so that we can achieve sooner the establishment of this South Australian petrochemical industry. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. Can he give the House the present position concerning the Constitutional Convention? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 

-I claim to have been grievously misrepresented. Incidentally, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  gave me no notice, which he should have if he observed the normal courtesies of this House, that he was going to raise this matter, which applies to me very directly. I want to make it clear that it is true - 
-The whole implication was against me personally and it affected me personally. Normal courtesy would have required you to raise this with me personally so that I could have documents here to help me in this personal explanation. I intend to make my personal explanation straightaway because the proposition is so easily answered. Yes, I am a director of one of the applicant companies for the fourth commercial radio licence in Adelaide. There are 5 directors of the company. Three are members of the Liberal Party, the politics of one other are not known and I am the fifth. I have one voting voice out of five on the board of directors. It is not true that the Trades and Labour Council has a 25 per cent share in the company. The Trades and Labour Council has no shareholding. In fact the unions concerned are individual unions organised by me. 
I might add also that one of the applicant companies is almost entirely a Liberal Party company. How the honourable member for Lilley can impute against me or the Australian Broadcasting Control Board that if Festival City Broadcasters was chosen it would be a political choice is completely beyond me. It is not a Labor company. It is the only company which has a directorship which covers all of the political parties and therefore could be said to be the only neutral company which is applying for this station licence. The parts of the letter read by the honourable member for Lilley were taken completely out of context. Elsewhere in the letter it would be found that the words I used were: 'The concept which this company hopes to sell to the Broadcasting Control Board - 
I do not often have the opportunity to speak on an education Bill but I have entered this debate for a number of reasons. Firstly, there is my great pleasure that going through this Australian Parliament is another measure which shows the Labor Government's strong commitment to technical and further education. I say another measure because, as I shall show later, this Bill is just a further manifestation of the Government's policy. Secondly, there is my awareness that this has been a relatively neglected field where there are enormous needs and where it is so clear that the expenditure of public funds will result in easily identified dividends- indeed, will result in benefits which are very clear and will be recognised by the community. 
I am not impressed by the contributions from the Opposition so far in this debate. It seems to me-1 am sure I will be excused for feeling thisthat members of the Opposition have their usual hang-ups about State rights. We had so many years of a lack of action in a field where there is so much to be done, yet when we now have a government which is acting in this field we find a certain amount of nitpicking going on about what the States want and how they might be upset. 1 have no wonder that the right honourable member for Higgins,  Mr Gorton,  is still writing articles about how his Party is going wrong in this sphere of action, as is being exemplified by what is being done by the Australian Labor Government as opposed, I repeat, to the nitpicking that is going on about State rights on the other side of the chamber. 
The third reason I am entering the debate is that I have had a number of years of involvement in adult education in South Australia on a voluntary basis working on the executive of the Workers Education Association of South Australia. Indeed, 1 have been fortunate to attain the positions of Chairman and President of that Association and I look forward to having something to say about the adult education aspect of the Bill later on. Remaining on this personal note, I add that time I have given voluntarily to adult education has been motivated in my case by the fact that I had received the greater part of my tertiary education as an adult part time student. As an aside I should like to take this opportunity of saying that I have a strong conviction that as a community we may perhaps allocate too many resources in an expensive way to full time education if indeed some of those resources could be allocated to part time education. I believe that mature students are not getting as fair a go in Australia at the moment as they should be, not because of any action of the Government but because of actions in universities in many cases, and in some of the institutions they are not being given the same opportunities to work on a part time basis to get their education. 
That explains briefly why I have entered the debate to support the second reading of the Bill. I make it clear that this Bill is merely, as I said earlier, another stage in the development which the Australian Labor Government had already commenced. As has been said already by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  in establishing this Commission we are merely giving effect to the fact that already an interim committee has been working for some time in this sphere- in fact, for 2 years, since April 1973. The States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Act of 1974 was passed to fund work in this sphere from last July to next December. So this Bill is merely a further stage in a splendid set of achievements. 1 take this opportunity of congratulating the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  who is at the table, on his achievements in this sphere. 
Another point worth mentioning, of course, is that the Commission to be set up by this Bill is part of the Australian Labor Government's range of such independent expert bodies assessing matters and advising the Government on the needs and priorities in the various sectors of education. Others in this family are the Schools Commission, mainly focusing on primary and secondary education; the Universities Commission, focusing on one section of tertiary education; and the Commission on Advanced Education, focusing on another sector of tertiary education. Indeed only today we heard the second reading speech on a Bill adding another important commission to the list. I refer to the Children's Commission. It is not entirely an education commission. It is partially an education commission and partially concerned with health and welfare and family care for children at the pre-school stage. 
But I return to the family of education commissions which are purely educational. The Technical and Further Education Commission to be set up by this Bill may be the last to be established but, as will have already been demonstrated, in my view it is far from being the least important. It will be concerned with the quality of education that is to be received by approximately half a million students in our community. Of course it will be concerned with that education in a long underdeveloped area of technical and further education. I believe that it will give the same assurance of skilled and impartial consideration of the needs in this sphere as the other commissions have given to their particular spheres of education. In referring to the technical and further education sphere as an underdeveloped field I do not have to draw attention only to the amount of public expenditure on technical and further education compared with other areas of public expenditure in the fields of education. These figures for earlier years are available in the Kangan report. 
Let me also remind the House of what is now well known and of what the Minister for Education reminded us in his second reading speech, namely, that people who are now entering the work force may well need retraining several times during their working lives. We live in an economy which must be ever responsive to changes in tastes. In fact this is one of the main virtues of our mixed economy. Industries will come and industries will go. We must set up improved structures for the training of citizens for new skills. The Minister said that we must remove barriers discouraging adults from further education and we must have particular regard for the needs of women, of country students, of migrants and of handicapped persons. The establishment of this Commission makes all that possible. It makes possible the building on the work of the Interim Committee. The Commission will be charged with the task of developing these ideals and concepts, of putting into effect this philosophy. In particular the Commission must foster opportunities for recurrent education. 
Whilst devoting my attention to this philosophy let me make a number of other points arising from my experience and interest in this field. I have a list of subjects which I hope the Commission will be examining. Many of them come from the Kangan report and other reports. My first subject is 'Emphasis'. Although industrial requirements should still be kept uppermost in mind, the Technical and Further Education Commission must, in my view, pay greater regard to individual needs and development. The Minister mentioned this in his speech. Vocational education ought to be broadened and become more general so that people may rapidly adapt to quickening technological and social change. The next subject is 'Learning'. Traditional teaching methods such as chalkandtalk, examination, rigid syllabi and tight classroom attendance and discipline have deterred many mature adults from undertaking technical and further education courses. Learning media and external courses need to be developed to assist people to direct their own learning experience. Moves towards interstate equivalence of courses and qualifications will be attempted by the Technical and Further Education Commission, I am sure. 
The third subject is 'Entry Requirements'. Any tendency towards more stringent entry prerequisites must be reversed to enable easier student access to this technical and further education. I mentioned earlier the value of mature citizens receiving such education. Apprenticeship courses ought to be made more available for adults, in both openness and content. Bridging courses to make good deficiencies in early schooling experience should be introduced for people, particularly those in the lower income groups. The next subject is 'Women'. Access to technical and further education by women can be enhanced by providing more in the way of appropriate physical and child care facilities, by arranging flexible timetables and by eliminating prejudice against their entry into manual trades. At the same time there should be no pressuresin fact by taxation and other policies we should be reducing the pressures- which lead women to want to enter the work force when they have children to look after, particularly children under the age of five. 
I have a long list of subjects which I would have liked to mention and to which I hope the Commission will be devoting its attention, but I promised the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  that my contribution would be short. To summarise, we have in this Bill the means of promoting the balanced development of technical and further education in Australia. The overall aim is equal opportunity for all. I commend the Minister for introducing this Bill. I hope that it will have a speedy passage and will soon be leading to great benefits for the Australian community. 
I should like to make a few points on the Australian Bureau of Statistics Bill. The first one relates to the remarks of the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  who has just resumed his seat. He talked about this Bill 'falling short', to use his expression. If ever there were a case of the pot calling the kettle black, that is such a case. The fact is that this Bill is long overdue and it should not wait any longer. It sets up a framework on which further clothes will be put later when, as the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  said in his second reading speech, the existing Acts which govern the collection of statistics will be reviewed and brought up to date. The existing Acts are the Census and Statistics Act 1905-1973 which was amended in 1973, and the Statistics (Arrangements with States) Act 1956-1958. To hear the honourable member for McPherson, one would have thought that he had not read that part of the Minister's second speech. It is clearly stated in that second reading speech that the purpose of the legislation is to bring those 2 Acts up to date by relating them to this Bill. A third Bill will be introduced into this Parliament shortly to amalgamate all the relevant legislation. I should like to suggest one or two good reasons why it should not be done now. 
The first is that advertisements have been placed far and wide both within this country and outside it, for an outstanding man to be appointed as the Australian Statistician- a position set up by this Act which, I repeat, is a framework Act.  Mr O'Neill,  the present Statistician, is due to retire shortly. I think it would be wrong to introduce a further Bill, bringing up to date the collection of statistics, without the opinions of such a person who may come from abroad. Another reason for delaying the legislation is that the people who will be appointed to the advisory body which will be created under this framework Bill, will have had a wide range of experience in our community and will have had additional experience in the field of statistics. They too will be able to give their advice in regard to the matter of putting the clothes on the framework which is being set up in the Australian Bureau of Statistics Bill. 
I repeat that there are 3 purposes of this Bill and that it is the framework which is being set up. The first of course is the setting up of the separate statutory corporation. If that were all that this Bill did, it would be a tremendous step forward because to date, as far as I as an outside observer can see, there has been great frustration on the part of the Statistician inasmuch as he has had to make decisions on his own and has then had to persuade the Treasury to put those decisions forward to the highest level of decision making in the Cabinet. To have a separate statutory corporation will increase the effectiveness and the relevance of statistics taking in this country. It will also strengthen further the guarantees of objectivity and impartiality of the Statistician. More than anything else, having a separate statutory corporation should mean a coordination of the collection of statistics throughout the Government area and particularly the Australian Government area. I hope it will also lead to further co-ordination with the statistics taking of the State Governments as well. I am referring to the fact that there is too great a lack of coordination at the moment, for instance, in the taking of statistics relating to unemployment, between the Department of Labor and Immigration and the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
The second purpose of the Bill is to give added status to the Statistician. I have mentioned in passing already his access to the senior Minister resulting from the setting up a separate statutory corporation. He could not have the status which is required, with direct contact with a senior Minister, without the setting up of the statutory corporation. The third purpose of this Bill is to set up the Advisory Council. I should like to say at this point how much I hope that the personnel of that Council will be chosen very carefully because the success of that advisory body will very much depend upon the calibre of the persons who are appointed to it. I repeat what I said earlier: Their advice will be extremely important, I hope, when it comes to drawing up the further Bill on this subject which puts the clothes on the framework. It is very easy for Opposition members to achieve some cheap votes by talking about privacy, or the lack of it, when statistics are being collected. 
-No one is attempting to obtain the cheap votes more than is the honourable member for Griffith, who said by way of interjection 'Hear, hear'. The point is that it is extremely important to have good statistics available in this country. One has only to work on some of the committees involved in the economics area, such as the Joint Committee on Prices, to recognise how unclothed we in this country are when it comes to decision making, because of the lack of statistics. One of the first jobs given to the Joint Committee on Prices was to examine the effect that the revaluation of our currency had, or should have had, on the prices of imported goods. The Committee found that this had to be done commodity by commodity because no statistics concerning imports were being collected. 
One has only to look also at the compilation of the consumer price index to recognise that there are a number of deficiencies in that compilation due to the fact that insufficient resources have been made available to what is now the Australian Bureau of Statistics to enable it to do what is an essential job when it comes to providing the decision makers with the necessary information on which they can base their decisions. Of course, we must have an awareness of the necessity for checks and balances and make sure that there are plenty of safeguards for those from whom the statistics are being, collected. Of course, it is very often an infringement upon their privacy and upon their time to have to fill out the necessary forms. Still, it is necessary in many cases to collect that information. 
I believe that many of the problems could be overcome by informing the public of the reasons why the information is being collected and by changing the personnel from whom the information is being collected. I found in my work as a chartered accountant before becoming a member of this chamber that in many cases very few people in our community were being asked for much information. If the number of people from whom that information was being sought was increased, if the spread was wider, the burden on those individual citizens would not be so great. I suggest that by setting up the Bureau as a separate statutory corporation and by having an advisory body such as will be set up by this Bill we are setting out on the proper course to make sure not only that the correct statistics are collected so that the Government and the private sector are given the necessary information on which to base their decisions but also that, through this body and through the Advisory Council, there will be plenty of people with a wide range of interests watching the interests of the citizens from whom the information is being collected. 
I was interested to note yesterday an article about the balance of payments situation in the United States of America and how the reserves were running down. It reminded me that Jim Callaghan, who is now the Foreign Secretary in the United Kingdom but who was, at the time of making the remark that I am about to quote, the Chancellor of the Exchequer in that country, had, when asked why the United Kingdom reserves had dwindled over the years, replied: 'Because we had no statistics to tell us it was happening'. There' were insufficient statistics about the United Kingdom's balance of payments situation for very many years. I cannot claim that that has been a problem in this country. We have known something about our balance of payments situation. But there are many other areas in the field of economics in which the statistics available in this country are insufficient. 
I would like to pay a tribute to Professor Crisp and his Committee- the Committee on the Integration of Data Systems- whose recommendations have, to such a great extent, formed the basis of this Bill. Indeed, I think that there are only 2 areas in which the Government has not accepted the advice of Professor Crisp's Committee. One was the suggestion by the Committee that the information available to the Commissioner of Taxation be made available on the same terms to the Australian Statistician. I am glad, frankly, that that recommendation was not accepted because, as somebody who has worked in that field, I know how important it is to the citizens of this country to know that the information they are giving to the Commissioner of Taxation is completely confidential to the Commissioner. 
The other recommendation which I think was made by Professor Crisp- I am not certain about this- and which has not been accepted is that the Bureau should work through the Treasurer. The Bureau is to work through the Special Minister of State. I am glad also that the Government has made that decision because, as I have indicated earlier, it is extremely important to have coordination of the statistics being collected in very many government departments- not only the statistics being collected for the Treasury- and, by having a Minister such as the Special Minister of State through whom the Australian Statistician will report, in my view we can get that necessary co-ordination so much better than if it were done through the Treasury. 
In concluding I would like merely to draw attention to the results of a symposium on statistics held in Canberra as long ago as July 1973 when 2 statisticians- a  Mrs Spencer  and a  Mr Kerr-  listed 5 sins of the statistician. I wish to list the 5 sins, to which I hope the new Australian Statistician, with his new statutory corporation, and the Advisory Council will apply their minds. The first one is the sin of repetition. I am sure that all members of this House have had experience of filling out medical benefits application forms. In the case of the voluntary society to which I will belong until the happy event of Medibank 's birth on 1 July, I have found that every time I make an application for a benefit I have to fill out not only my own date of birth but also the date of birth of every one of my dependants who is involved in that form. Why on earth does that have to be done every time? That is just one example of the sort of unnecessary repetition that can take place in statistics taking, unless there are watchdogsperhaps all of us in this Parliament ought to be such watchdogs- drawing attention to this repetition. When one fills out forms relating to births one has to give give exactly the same information as one gives to other government departments when one is applying for the maternity allowance or child endowment. There is no reason why, with a little organisation, one form could not be the basis of all such applications. So let us get rid of the repetition. 
Then there is the sin of irrelevancy. I am sure that what I have already referred to concerning the stating of the date of birth on medical benefit application forms also would come under the heading of irrelevancy. How many times are we obliged, when filling out forms, to state our birthplace? What on earth is the use of knowing somebody's birthplace? I cannot think of what use it is, unless it is for identification purposes, but there are many ways of establishing a person 's identity other than by the person stating his or her birthplace. It has just become the conventional wisdom of those who ask us to fill out these forms to ask us not only our place of birth but also our nationality, age, marital status, race and religion. I am sure that some of those details are required, but I would venture to bet that on most occasions not all of them are required; yet on almost all occasions we are asked for them. 
Then there are those questions that are completely unanswerable, such as: In what year was your house built? Perhaps it was built over a period of 2 years. Another question that comes to my mind is: What was the last occupation of the father of the deceased? On a few occasions I have had to answer that question for people when the deceased was 90 years of age when he died, so it can be imagined how out of date the information about the occupation of his father was. 
I refer also to the bad design of forms. Forms still exist which require the Christian names of people in this country who are Hindus, Moslems or Jews. Nothing but bad design has led to that. Another of the sins pointed out at the symposium was how often information is sought which is of no use whatsoever. I referred to this matter earlier. I am sure honourable members will recall that the Electoral Office asks the occupation of the elector. I have often wondered why this is needed. In fact, one fills out one's occupation when one first goes on the electoral roll. Nowadays, for many thousands of people that would be 'student', if one remains in this country and his name is not taken off the roll, I do not think he provides the Electoral Office with information about his changed occupation. So we will find more and more people appearing on the electoral roll as students because that was their occupation at the time the original application was made. I hope the Bureau of Statistics will -devote its attention to some of these subjects which came out of the symposium nearly 2 years ago. 
In closing, I wish to congratulate the Government on bringing this Bill to the Parliament. I hope that it will not be delayed by the usual hangups of the Opposition relating to Statesrightism. I believe an amendment along those lines is to be moved. The Parliament has already been informed that statisticians from the States will be appointed to the Advisory Council. It is in the interests of all honourable members and those we represent that there should be as much co-ordination as possible in statistics taking, not only between Australian Government departments, but also between the Australian Government and the State governments. This is a fine Bill which sets up the framework. I believe that after a reasonable space of time a further Bill will be introduced which will put the clothes on this framework. We look forward to that legislation. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Has he noted reports that the Malaysian Prime Minister Tun Abdul Razak has called for a South East Asian neutral zone? Can he confirm these reports? Will he explain the Government's attitude in relation to this concept? 
-This is just another example of the hang-up of the Opposition in relation to the States. It is an example also of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson),  who is leading for the Opposition in this debate, not understanding this Bill properly and not getting as far as clause 31, which is worth reading to him. It states: 
For the purpose of assisting the Commission in the performance of its functions by providing, in each State, in the Australian Capital Territory and in the Northern Territory, means by which suggestions, proposals and information relating to those functions can be communicated to the Commission by, and the Commission can consult with, organisations and persons (including parents), - 
I hope the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  will note those words 'including parents'- responsible for, or connected with, the provision of services for children in the State or Territory, the Minister may, in relation to each State and each of those Territories, establish a Children's Commission Advisory Board, or Children's Commission Advisory Boards, for the State or Territory. 
This, of course, is the means for the consultation which the Minister has already said he will carry out with the States. There is no reason for the Opposition to have these hang-ups and to wish to alter the Bill in the manner indicated in the proposed amendment on which we have just voted and the amendment that has now been moved by the honourable member for Sturt. I am surprised, in particular, that the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  was in the chamber for the last vote because he, of all people, is trying to bring sense to the Opposition in the matter of these hang-ups. We are already using, in the period of the interim committee, State committees to make recommendations. But why should not the Australian Government have the flexibility which the Bill, as it is now drawn, gives it to pay over the moneys, not only through the States but also in other ways? Such payments are presently being made in other ways under legislation which is already in existence and which was brought into being by the party of which the honourable member for Sturt is a member. I repeat that it is a hang-up of the Opposition members that they feel they have to pay lip service to the principle involved here with every Bill that comes into this place. 
I was hoping to say something about the Opposition's attitudes towards this Children's Commission Bill during the second reading debate on the Bill but was not able to do so because of the time limitations. I am glad that now I am able to support the Bill as it is, to support this clause as it is and to suggest that the views of the States will be properly considered through the advisory boards provided for in clause 31 of the Bill. I repeat that it is completely beyond me to understand how one can suggest that to adopt this procedure is creating extra bureaucracy when compared with the methods suggested by the Opposition. I believe the States do not want to be used as post boxes. I hope that most of the realistic people in the States recognise that the Government's approach is a more realistic way than the Opposition's of going about financing the work of providing these day care and other facilities for children aged between one and five years and their parents. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Wilson's)  be agreed to. 
I did not know that the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  was going to raise these matters and I am completely unprepared. I am not suggesting in any way that he should have warned me because I am not involved in any way, but as I am in the chamber I would like to comment on both the matters. He said that I should remember a particular case. In fact, although the name Martin Fabinyi did not mean anything to me, I now remember a case in the courts of South Australia as the honourable member for Boothby described it. I think that it is completely unfair of the honourable member to suggest that the Labor Government is giving this person money directly. It is not giving this person money directly for any purpose whatsoever. The Australian Labor Government has set up to make recommendations an independent committee of people who are universally respected in their particular fields. I would not know whether those experts knew of the conviction of the person concerned at the time the money was made available to him. Perhaps they did. Perhaps those experts who recognised the art of this man considered that it was important that he be forgiven and having already taken his punishment for his previous misdemeanour should be forgiven and encouraged in a particular field of activity, a field which I do not know but perhaps the honourable member for Boothby does know. If he does, he has not told us tonight. 
I leave that case and turn to the case of the Australian Government Workers' Association merely to say that neither I nor the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  who is a previous secretary of that great union in South Australia, knows anything about  Mr George  Young and his history. We would like the honourable member for Boothby to table the documents regarding this case so that we too can become acquainted with it. In the course of his remarks the honourable member made some charges, which I suspect are wild charges, against the council of the AGWA suggesting that it is covering up some of the history of  Mr Goerge  Young, if indeed he has a history. I am sure that the council of that union would be following the rules of this association which were properly surveyed and examined by many learned people before they were registered at the court. The council would follow those rules to the letter before it would accept a nomination; it would not accept a nomination from anybody whom as not qualified to be accepted under the rules. 
If I am wrong, of course the honourable member is quite proper in bringing it up in this House, but I would have preferred that he had done his own investigations and had been absolutely certain before he dragged the name of this person before the House. I notice that a reporter from the Adelaide 'Advertiser' is present. He was probably told that this matter was to come up so that it would be spread on the front pages for the people in South Australia tomorrow. I would have preferred it if the honourable member were certain of the facts before calling a thug this person who is a candidate. The honourable member did not indicate to the House that he was certain of the facts. I would have hoped that he would be certain of the facts before he spoke. If he is proved to be correct of course these facts should be known to all who are taking part in that election. I trust that somebody will now have the opportunity to make these investigations before parliamentary privilege is used in this way and this man's name is dragged before the public of South Australia in this way. 
-I support clause 43 as it stands and oppose the amendment proposed by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  I believe that it is very important that the right attitude to marriage should be expressed in this Bill. The correct attitude is that marriage is something undertaken for life. It should not be entertained that the marriage is going to break down in any way. I believe that having the clause as it is provides no difficulty for the Family Court, whatever the circumstances may be, because the court will take notice of them. 
-I do not accept the interjection of the honourable member for Lilley. The fact is that the opponents of this Bill have quite wrongly considered that because in essence the Bill is doing away with fault, this means that marriage is not going to be looked upon in society as it was in the past. I do not agree with that proposition. I believe that almost everybody in our community enters into marriage believing that it is for life and not something that is terminable. I think it is tremendously important that this principle should be written in this way in the Bill. 
I support the clause as it is and do not entertain the amendment of the right honourable member for Lowe. I point out that the clause will stop the courts being cavalier and capricious in divorce cases. If the amendment of the right honourable member for Lowe were carried it would give the courts an excuse to have that sort of attitude. Those of us who voted to give the Bill a second reading and supported clause 48 in its present form have been looked upon by some as not supporting marriage for life. I repeat that that is not correct. I believe that the clause ought to be supported in its present form. 
Amendment negatived. 
It is hard to believe that in the history of this Parliament a shallower and more irresponsible speech has ever been heard on an important subject than the one to which we have been obliged to listen from the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  It was ham acting. It was also, as I have already said, totally irresponsible. The House is debating an electoral redistribution in South Australia. If there had not been an interjection from the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  the honourable member for Gwydir would not have even mentioned South Australia in passing. It is interesting to note that although we have heard about 5 speakers from the Opposition on the subject of electoral redistributions- admittedly only three in this debate- we have not yet heard from a South Australian. I hope that we will shortly. 
There are good reasons why the South Australians on the Opposition benches have been reluctant to enter into this debate. One of the good reasons is that they know that it is a good, fair redistribution that has been carried out by men of integrity and independence. They also know that acceptance of the proposed redistribution will help the Liberal Party of Australia in South Australia. I do not pretend that I like the details of this redistribution. Although I will be helped personally in my seat, overall my Partythe Australian Labor Party- will not be helped by this redistribution. If ever there has been an example of the spinelessness of the members of the Liberal Party in this House we have it here. If ever there has been an example of a lack of principle when it comes to electoral matters on the part of the National Country Party of Australia we have it here. If ever there has been an example of the tail wagging the dog- of the Country Party once more having complete authority over an important area of policy- we have it here. We have brought the South Australian redistribution into this Parliament first, only because it was the redistribution that was given to the Minister for Services and Property and to this Parliament first. But it is fortuitous that we have done so as it enables us to highlight this lack of principles and spinelessness which is such a feature of what we are learning from the Opposition today. 
Let us look at history to see why this comes about. A redistribution of the electorates of this Australian Parliament is due on any set of criteria that we have looked at in the past. The last redistribution was in 1968. It is true that there was a difference of opinion between the Labor Party and the Opposition Parties on the principles of this redistribution. But the fact is that those principles have been argued out in debate after debate in this Parliament to such an extent that eventually we had to hold a Joint Sitting in order to determine this matter. That Joint Sitting, based on the votes of members of both Houses of this Parliament who were elected by the people of this country, said that a 10 per cent difference was all that was justified. Indeed, a 10 per cent margin either side of the mean can give a 20 per cent difference in size between one electorate and another. Previously there was a 20 per cent margin which could give a 40 per cent difference between the size of electorates. After a proper look at the principles governing electorates, 10 per cent is all that should be tolerated and the people have already, through the Parliament- through the Joint Sitting- made a decision on that. 
For the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  and, before him, even the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Fraser)  to come into this place and talk about manipulation is a discredit to them and a reflection on men of integrity- the Commissioners- who have followed these principles that have properly been given to them by this Parliament. The fact is that in South Australia 3 men drew up this proposal for redistribution. One Commissioner was  Mr A.  J. Walsh, who is the Australian Electoral Officer for South Australia. Does anybody reflect in any way on his integrity? Another was  Mr G.  H. 
Campbell-Kennedy, who is the SurveyorGeneral for the State of South Australia, somebody completely apolitical and outside any political party and a man of integrity and independence. The third Commissioner was  Mr F.  W. Summers, a retired Australian Electoral Officer, the Commonwealth Electoral Officer, as he then was, for the State of South Australia. There were no political affiliations whatsoever. The Commissioners brought down a completely independent report to this Parliament and that is what we are debating now. Yet we hear words like manipulation' thrown into this debate irresponsibly by the honourable member for Gwydir and the Leader of the Opposition. As I have said already, I do not pretend that I like every detail of this proposed distribution; I guess none of us ever would. But I would like to quote some of the reactions of people in South Australia. There have been some extraordinary reactions. 
On 4 February, before the redistribution proposals were published- indeed, while they were still under bond- reporters went to certain well known political personalities in South Australia and sought their reactions. The Director of the Liberal Party in South Australia,  Mr Viall,  commented that he thought it was an unfair distribution just on Press reports. The next day, 5 February,  Dr Eastick,  a more responsible Liberal leader in my State- the Leader of the Opposition in the South Australian State Parliamentsaid that the Liberal Party would win 7 seats to the Australian Labor Party's 5 seats after the redistribution. I point out to the Parliament that at the moment the Labor Party has 7 seats and the Liberal Party 5 seats.  Dr Eastick  went on to say that, indeed, the Commissioners had followed the recommendations of the Liberal Party. 
I suppose that we will now have the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  and, if he has the guts to come into this chamber, the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  standing up and showing their loyalty to their Party by opposing this redistribution. We have the independent judgment of the Leader of the Liberal Party in the South Australian Parliament on this redistribution. Indeed, we have, as I said earlier, an indication of the reaction of  Mr Viall  before he saw the Commissioners' report in his opposition to the first proposals of the Commissioners. But, from any angle that one can look at it, this is a fair distribution and Liberal Party spokesmen have said just that. 
While talking about reactions, I take this opportunity to condemn a reaction of a spokesman for the Australia Party,  Mr C.  Van Reenen. On 5 February he said that the redistribution was a classic gerrymander for the Australian Labor Party and went on to say that the Labor Party stood to gain the seats of Angas and Sturt. I do not believe that even the honourable member for Angas would concede in any way that the Labor Party had any chance whatsoever of gaining his seat. I speak up for the Commissioners in bringing this matter to the attention of the Parliament because they cannot speak for themselves. But irresponsible statements like this, like the one from the Leader of the Opposition and the one from the honourable member for Gwydir, should not be allowed to go unchallenged. Even this Australia Party spokesman talked about a classic gerrymander when referring to this redistribution. There is absolutely no justification for such a charge. 
Before resuming my seat, I should like to comment on the methods used by the Commissioners. I think there is great merit in the way that suggestions are put up by political parties and other interested people; how others then can comment on those suggestions; and how, after the Commissioners have presented their first report, there is room for objections to be made to those suggestions of the Commissioners. This system has been well traversed in the case of the South Australian redistribution and it is interesting to note the unity that has existed on the part of the various people who made suggestions. For instance, the electorate of Hawker was extended to the coast under all of these suggestions. Angas became a Hills electorate and lost parts of the Murray. I know the honourable member for Angas is not pleased about this but it was the effect of every suggestion to the Commissioners other than that of the honourable member. 
Of course, all the suggestions made to the Commissioners were that Grey remain unaltered. Because the Redcliffs petro-chemical project is now in mothballs, it is true that the Commissioners later had to increase the size of the electorate of Grey. This disappoints members of the Australian Labor Party because the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  already has a large area to cover. But he is a man of principle as well and supports the 10 per cent tolerance rather than a 20 per cent tolerance and he understands that, with a seat like his, that is one of the disadvantages with which he has to contend. 
Finally, because the name of  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras has been mentioned in this Parliament, I mention another independent observer of these matters,  Mr Dean  Jaensch, a member of the Politics Department of the Flinders University of South Australia. He has gone on public record as saying how very fair this proposed South Australian redistribution is. I believe that his opinions are held by everybody who is objective about this redistribution. I repeat what I said at the beginning of my remarks: I am sure this is a classic case of the spinelessness of the Liberal Party in following the unprincipled attitudes of the Country Party in this matter. This is a fair distribution of the electorates of South Australia. If anything, it favours the Liberal Party. I do not appreciate that to any great extent but it has been done by men of independence, by men of integrity, and the umpires' rulings should be followed. 
I find it incredible that the Opposition is filibustering on this Bill. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the honourable member for Adelaide be not further heard. 
I thank my colleagues for their wisdom in wanting to hear me on this Bill. It points up how generous the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  has been in the time he has allocated but much of the time that was left for the second reading debate has been taken up by that pointless division. I want to associate myself with this Bill. I believe that the economies of scale which will result from the setting up of the Purchasing Commission are to be noted, and the Government is to be congratulated for the move that it is taking. I have followed the procedures for the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry into Government Procurement Policy, known as the Scott Committee. I have known a member of the Committee, a chartered accountant from Adelaide. I have followed how, on behalf of the Committee and with the Secretary of the Committee, he visited many overseas countries, particularly Canada, the United States of America and the United Kingdom, before the Scott Committee report was brought down. I have noted, not only from the report of the Committee but also from conversations I have had with  Mr Jack  Tune, the Adelaide chartered accountant, since that report, just how much of what the Government has decided to put into this Bill has been derived from experience gained overseas. 
The main purpose of the Bill is to authorise the setting up of this Commission and also to make sure that the Commission will bring about the economies of scale which I have already mentioned. I point out that it is hoped that the shortcomings that are listed in the Scott report will be overcome by the Purchasing Commission. At the moment the purchasing carried out by Government departments in Australia is fragmented. A tremendous amount of value can be gained by that purchasing being carried out by a specialist body. As other speakers have pointed out, at the present time there are absences of regular reviews of principles and procedures. There is a need for research and training. There are also absences of proper consultation with industry when purchasing is done in the fragmented form in which it is now done in the various government departments. I also point out that the Commission will be progressively taking over purchasing activities which are at the moment distributed not only over government departments but also over statutory bodies. I am very interested to note that the items which are now mainly purchased by the Australian Government Stores and Tender Board will be the items which will be purchased by this Commission. I hope that the Commission will move to take over more and more of the purchasing activities of the Aus.tralian Government just as fast as it possibly can. I hope that in doing so it will ensure that the proper testing of standards of goods will be carried out and that the information which is gained by such a specialist body will be available to the consumer movement generally in Australia and, through that consumer movement, will be publicised for all the citizens of this country. I wish that I had had an opportunity to learn more about the Canadian system before being given the opportunity to speak in this debate; but I can say that with the setting up of this Commission a real purchasing strategy can be brought into being for the Australian Government and that there will be best value for money gained for the Australian taxpayer. 
I have listened to a number of the speeches made by honourable members from the Opposition benches in their attempt to put off a decision on this Bill until the Budget session. But I believe that indeed they are motivated by reasons which are very hard to follow. They are nitpicking in respect of various sections of the Bill and suggesting that some monster is being created. I repeat that all that is being done in this Bill is already being done in other countries, such as Canada and, perhaps in a slightly different form, in the United States of America. The Opposition pays lip service to greater efficiency and to the cutting of Government expenditure, yet when a specific proposal like this is brought to the Parliament in order to achieve this the Opposition, in its true conservative role, opposes it for the sake of opposing. I have much pleasure in supporting this Bill. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on Prices I bring up the Committee 's report on the prices of frozen and canned vegetables. I also bring up extracts of the minutes of proceedings taken in connection with-this inquiry. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with this report. 
asked the Minister for Health upon notice: 
1) Is he concerned at the maldistribution of graduates in medicine with far too few specialising in the important occupation/vocation of general practitioners/community medicine specialist. 
Is the method of selection of undergraduates one of the main causes of this maldistribution, with apparently academic merit alone being the criterion instead of testing also other qualities required in a medical practitioner. 
If so, can he and the Australian Government do anything to alter this basis of selection. 
In building up the support team for the general medical practitioner to make his a more specialist occupation/ vocation, can he and the Government assist to make the pharmacist a more effective member of the health team; if so, how. 
-Has the Treasurer seen reports of a recent speech by the SecretaryGeneral of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development,  Mr van  Lennup, at a meeting of the Council of Europe which I attended along with the honourable member for North Sydney representing this Parliament, in which  Mr van  Lennup said that the economies of the Western industrialised nations were recovering from the present severe international recession at a much slower rate than earlier forecasts suggested? Does the Treasurer share  Mr van  Lennup 's concern? What implication does it have for the Australian economy if the international economic recession is prolonged? 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to a denial issued in Adelaide to allegations made earlier in Singapore by  Mr Khemlani?  Has all the information about this matter been given to this House? 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Has his attention been drawn to reports to the effect that information on the economic effects of delaying the passage of the Budget he gave the House yesterday was inaccurate? Will he give the House an assurance that the information was correct? 
I second the amendment. 1 am obliged to speak now because 2 Opposition members spoke in succession earlier in the debate and because it has been the policy of the Australian Labor Government to give the back benchers of this Parliament an opportunity to have their resolutions voted on. If we are to reach the stage of voting it will be necessary for me to cut short my time- which I regretbecause the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie),  the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Clayton)  and the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child),  are anxious to take part in the debate, as also is the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  The honourable member for Henty was a widow receiving social service benefits under Liberal governments and she had a young family to bring up. We would have liked her to enter into this debate and speak about the humbug of the resolutions which we are now debating. 
The resolution seeks to charge the Government with economic mismanagement. Then it has the gall to suggest that the Government has not bent over backwards to protect the needy to the greatest extent possible. On the other hand, the amendment which I am seconding not only points out what the Government's policies have been but can also, with the announcement today of the movement in the consumer price index, point out the success of those policies. The amendment goes further and charges the Opposition with putting the living standards of the needy in great jeopardy because of the constitutional crisis which it has promoted in this Parliament and in this country today. With the knowledge of what this will mean not only to pensioners but also to the workers of this country we can with great confidence vote on the amendment. No doubt we will see the passage of the amendment rather than the passage of the spurious resolution which is before the House. 
I have sympathy with the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  as the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  has sympathy with him, because only today at question time we heard the splendid news from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  about the improvement in the consumer price index. The Prime Minister was quick to point out that indeed the battle has not been won, that we are suffering from a world problem in inflation. I have just returned from a 9 weeks tour abroad representing this Parliament at 3 separate conferences. I visited 12 countries, many of them with economies similar to our own. Therefore there is much that I can say with authority about inflation in the rest of the world and how what has happened and is happening here is part of the world scene. My trip abroad culminated in representing this Parliament at a meeting of the Council of Europe at Strasbourg, at which the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham),  who is in the House, was also a delegate. We both spoke in a debate about the world economic situation. The debate commenced with a report on that situation by  Mr Van  Lennep, the Secretary-General of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. In that non-political atmosphere and from that distance one could see how a great trading nation like Australia- one of the greatest trading nations per capita- has been sadly affected not only by the inflationary situation but also by the unemployment situation which we are seeking to cure as fast as possible in this country. 
It does not matter whether a country is a communist country, behind an iron or bamboo curtain. I draw the attention of my colleagues, even those on this side of the House, to the fact that when they are talking about inflation often they talk about it as affecting only countries similar to our own. It does not. Although it is camouflaged in some communist countries, we should nevertheless realise that it is affecting them as well. Whether it is a communist country or a democratic socialist country like our own, like all the Scandinavian countries, like the Federal Republic of Germany, like Austria where Chancellor Kreisky has just been re-elected: or whether it is a country with a conservative government, like France or Italy, this same problem of inflation- a world problem- has affected them. We are in this turmoil and we are seeking to isolate Australia to the greatest extent possible from this world illness. 
To propose a resolution in this House stating that our problems of inflation are due to economic mismanagement is spurious nonsense, as it is nonsense for the Leader of the Opposition (  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) to give as one of his main reasons for promoting the constitutional crisis from which we are suffering in this country today, the state of the economy of this country. That is spurious nonsense. He went on to say that anything he could do would take 3 years, yet he is not prepared to give the Australian Labor Government 3 years to achieve its policies, to go on seeking to achieve the sort of good result we have had today with the consumer price index. 
There are many causes of inflation. There were the great increases of the world commodity prices in 1972-73; there was the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries hike in oil prices in 1973-74; there were the budget deficits which every country in the world introduced at the same time and which caused the tremendous excess liquidity in the world. I might say that most of it was caused by the policy of the Government of the United States of America of deficit financing in order to finance the war in Vietnam. There have been the inevitable wages chasing increased prices brought about by these other factors which I have already mentioned. All countries have suffered from this- some, admittedly, in little different times and to little different extent from others. But to try to isloate the management of this country as being responsible for this economic situation is merely misleading the country. To suggest that this should cause an election in this country right now, at a time when policies are beginning to work is an outrage- not just an outrage on the Australian Labor Government but an outrage on the people of this country. 
-It is irresponsible, as the honourable member for Diamond Valley said. The cures are in the work that is going on in the International Monetary Fund and in the work that is going on with  Mr Van  Lennep and the OECD. It is in these international areas that the inflation, stagflation and unemployment problems will be overcome. As long as we are a good neighbour to the rest of the world and do not react too quickly to some of these problems but act together with other nations, the economy will improve. But as long as the Opposition turns us into another Portugal, which is the sort of thing that is happening in the crisis which it has created, there will be no cure, there will be no stability, there will be no hope for the Australian people to steadily overcome this world malaise from which we are suffering. 
One big area in which there is a difference between the conservative governments in the countries which I visited and the democratic socialist governments in the countries which I visited is in the protection of the needy people from the effects of inflation. There is really a marked contrast. That is why the resolution is even more of a humbug resolution than it might otherwise be. There is no question that the Australian Labor Government stands very firmly in the same court as the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany and the governments of the Scandinavian countries not only in protecting the needy people from inflation but also, at a time when this world problem is overcoming them, in improving their standards of living. As the honourable member for Isaacs would like to have said if he had had the opportunity to enter this debate, social service benefits and pensions have increased from 18 per cent to about 23 per cent of average weekly incomes whilst the Australian Labor Party has been in government at this difficult economic time. Another point that the honourable member for Isaacs wanted to make was that this Opposition-promoted crisis right now is stopping necessary funds reaching the Aboriginal people. Yet we have a resolution before the House coming from an Opposition back bench member suggesting that the actions of this Government are not protecting these needy people. The memories of the Australian people are not so short. 
Certainly during a campaign, if we have to have one, they would remember the sort of standards that there were before we came to government on 2 December 1972. They would recognise not only the humbug of this motion but also the humbug of the excuses that have been used to promote this constitutional crisis- this crisis which is putting the living standards of needy people in jeopardy right now. There is no truthful man who can deny that social service benefits have been lifted during the currency of this Australian Labor Government as they have never been lifted before- not just the absolute amounts but the relative amounts. There is no truthful man who could deny that the evil side effects of the inevitable and necessary lifting of interest rates at a time of inflation have been insulated to the greatest extent possible from the lower income groups. So I could go on. However, we want to have a vote on this motion and the proposed amendment and I am obliged to sit down and to curtail my remarks and also to state again that there are others on the Government side who would have liked to have entered this debate. 
-The Prime Minister will remember certain Government loan raising efforts seeking to keep as many as possible of Australia's resources under Australian ownership. Can he add any further information to that which he gave last week concerning contact between his staff and an intermediary in these loan affairs? 
-My question is to the Prime Minister. Has he any information to give to the House about the tragic situation in the Lebanon and in particular to those many fine people of Lebanese origin in Australia who are so worried at this time? 
I preface my question to the Minister for Agriculture by drawing attention to reports of a disastrous shortfall in this season's Russian wheat crop. I ask: What implications has this for Australia? What is the current position of sales by the Australian Wheat Board? 
-Has the Treasurer seen claims that recent increases in government spending have been inflationary? In the present circumstances should there be less public spending with a consequent reduction in the size of the public sector in Australia? 
-Is the Treasurer intending to impose a credit squeeze on the Australian community at a time when the objective should be full employment? If so, why has he not said so? If not, what else could be the effect of the increase in the ratio of liquid assets and government securities to deposits from 18 per cent to 23 per cent and the introduction of the Australian savings bond at far too high an interest rate with consequent fund raising difficulties for building societies, semi-governmental and other such institutions? 

 -Mr Speaker, may I follow the usual traditional courtesies and first of all congratulate you on your election to your high office. Secondly, may I congratulate the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  on achieving his maiden speech. I might say that he tested somewhat the normal courtesy of no interjections by the nature of his speech, but I shall pass over that in the hope that he will gain knowledge during the very short time he is expected to be in this House. I should like to thank the honourable member for the kind words he said about his predecessor, my former colleague  Mr John  Kerin, whom we are looking forward very much to having back shortly in this House. As this is my first speech from the front bench, I take the opportunity of thanking my colleagues for electing me to this position and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  for giving me the position of shadow Treasurer. I certainly plan to be busy during this session. 
Although I feel as strongly as any other objective and perceptive person in this country about the constitutional issue which resulted in my Party's losing government, nevertheless I feel that, for obvious reasons, I should address myself mainly to that part of the GovernorGeneral's Speech relating to our economy. Before moving to that, however, I want to say one thing in passing. In today's adverse world economic conditions, with the enormous problems of inflation and unemployment faced by all countries comparable with our own, any government which is merely in office and not in power, any government which can have its supply of money terminated by a hostile Senate majority, in the face of all conventions previously applying, at any time suitable to that hostile Senate majority any such government will be defeated, as was the case with the Australian Labor Party Government. It happened to us. It will happen to any other government which is placed in that position. An outrage has been inflicted on our system. Instability will result, if not in the short term, because of the large majority for the Liberal and National Country Parties in the House of Representatives and in the Senate, then in the long term. Chickens have a habit of coming home to roost. 
Let us contemplate a very possible- perhaps not probable but possible- scenario. An Ansett jet crash between Canberra and Melbourne results in 10 vacancies in the Senate for South Australia and Tasmania. Ten Liberal and National Country Party senators chance it with Ansett and have to be replaced. After what was done by Premier Lewis in New South Wales and by Premier Bjelke-Petersen in Queensland in replacing Labor  Senator Murphy  and the late Labor  Senator Milliner  with senators  from  other parties, who in our community believes that Labor State Parliaments in South Australia and Tasmania should substitute Liberals for those 10 senators? Who then would expect a Labor Senate majority, when the political climate is propitiousand it is bound to be favourable to us at some time during the term of this Government, if it is not already favourable- not to refuse Supply to this Government? That is the dangerous instability which has been caused by this outrageous but successful grab for power which we have just witnessed in this country. 
Australia, in common with all other countries of the Western world, continues to suffer from the twin problems of unemployment of men and women and under-employment of resources on the one hand and an intolerable rate of inflation on the other hand. I am ready to concede that there are no simple solutions to these problems. If there were simple solutions and we knew them in this country we would become the Mecca for all statesmen of the Western world. I trust that for whatever period I am allowed to hold this position of Parliamentary Labor Party spokesman on Treasury matters I will not be caught giving the impression that there are simple solutions. At the same time 1 want it to be known that I should not be numbered among the conspiracy theorists. These were alluded to by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  who has just resumed his seat. 
There are those on both sides of this House who believe that in the Treasury all evil resides. That is not my view. I am a great admirer of the wisdom and competence of Australian Treasury officers. However, officers in that department would be the first to concede that they are not always correct, nor in the complex world in which they work would they put forward all their views with tremendous certainty on some occasions. In addition, it is a grave error to think that what emanates from the Treasurer at any one time is not vastly different from the advice which is being preferred to him from the Treasury. I hope I am not being charitable when I say that I suspect that much of what is emanating from the Government at present is not the advice of the Treasury. I just cannot believe that the Otto Niemeyer 1930s stuff of 'no soft options' and all the other cliches which go with that one is part of Treasury thinking. 
I mention this before tackling specific policies in detail for one purpose. We must encourage more open government in this complex area. There is far too little work in the field of applied economics carried out in this country. I congratulate all those who have made their sacrifices to establish the Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research at the Melbourne University. Incidentally, I deprecate what was said by the honourable member for Macarthur in relation to advice from the universities. I also congratulate the  National Times  and the Econometer Group at the Flinders University of South Australia for the work they are doing. I applaud those economists who leave the ivory towers and curb the desire to be mere social commentators and get down to the hard work of committing themselves to specific policy advice in the hard hard world in which I am obliged to operate. There is no activity which affects more greatly the standard of living and the material happiness of one's fellow man than the area in which these people work. I ask the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to do all he can to encourage the dialogue between the Governmentin this case the Treasury- on the one hand and the economic academic world, with business, with trade unions, with financial journalists and wherever there is informed thought and informed advice on the other hand. I shall be doing all I can to encourage this development. 
On so many occasions it is only the Government which has the tools of trade, the hard facts, the input for meaningful discussion. The Government should be sharing this knowledge to a greater extent and reacting to the alternative advice not in the petty way my question on the credit squeeze was answered by the Treasurer yesterday, impetuously, giving no information and offering no reasoning. The Government should be answering the alternative critical advice being offered to the community in a rational way which adds to the body of knowledge. I hope that that is the way my view of present policy and future prospects will be met rather than by petty talk about the past and the accepted problems of the Australian Labor Government, shared as those problems were by all other comparable governments in the western world at this time. My view prior to the present Government taking over was that economic recovery would get under way in the first and second quarters of 1976 and develop quite strongly as 1976 progressed. This recovery would be led by housing, stimulated by the ample liquidity which was available during 1975 and by consumer spending which was expected to respond to the effective short term tax cuts in the Australian Labor Party Government's recent budget, and to the large indexation wage rise which every informed commentator expected and which resulted from this recent national wage case in February. The recovery would be stimulated also by the improvement in consumer confidence consequent upon the resolution of the constitutional crisis, the impact of easy money and lower interest rates and the flow on of high levels of activity in housing to consumer expenditure on associated items. We expected this up turn in the first and second quarters of 1976. The cessation of stock reduction in 1976 also was expected to assist immeasurably in this upturn. We all know that stocks have been running down for some time now. Partially, but only partially, offsetting these expansionary factors would be the continued weakness in private business investment, not expected to turn up until well into 1976-77, more moderate growth in public sector demand than hitherto and the increasing turn to imports arising from the deflationary exchange rate policy being followed. 
On inflation, I expected a modest increase in the rate of price and wage inflation in 1976, with male award wages and earnings increasing by about 20 per cent and the consumer price index increasing by perhaps 15 per cent. These wage and price figures were expected to result from the continuation of wage indexation, the effects of the indirect taxes and charges in the recent Budget and a continued effort by companies to restore profits by increasing prices and more rapidly increasing prices for food, especially meat. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, this outlook has now appreciably changed as a result of the measures of the new Government although severe uncertainties, I must admit, still remain about this Government's policy. It is now a serious question, in my view, whether we will get a sustained recovery at all during 1976. With the Government's spending cuts, both implemented and foreshadowed, and Government demand not being an expansionary force in the next 12 months to 18 months, I predict that there will be very adverse results. In spite of the investment allowance, private business investment is not likely to turn up until well into 1976-77 at the earliest. The sharp reduction in the rate of growth of the money supply currently in train will reduce the supply of credit throughout the economy and particularly in the housing sector so that the recovery in housing is likely to be cut short. With the exchange rate being held and production costs in Australia being out of line with import costs at the present exchange rate, a continuing shift into imports seems likely during 1976. 
With these deflationary factors, whether we get a significant recovery at all depends, I realise, on consumer spending. I learn that surveys show that the Fraser Government coming to power was associated with an upswing in consumer sentiment and expectation, and the introduction of the Labor Budget tax scales and the 6.4 per cent increase in the national wage, which I mentioned earlier, should support consumer incomes. The question is whether the Fraser cuts, the tightening of monetary policy and the official talk of belt tightening, tough times, 'calamitious effects' of wages rises and so on will cut off the recovery in consumer spending. We just do not know the answer to this question at the present time. But if the upswing in consumption does not eventuate a general economic upswing will not eventuate either. A wrongful Scrooge attitude is abroad, and it is personified by the Prime Minister's policies and the Treasurer's statements. 
The other question hanging over the recovery concerns inflation. While the new Government has done nothing to improve the inflation outlook, it has significantly increased the chances of major increases in wages in 1976, and there is no doubt that a sharp increase in wage-cost inflation would deepen the recession, both in itself and because of the reaction of the authorities.. The Labor Party Opposition yesterday raised for discussion as a matter of public importance the grave damage done by the wilfully stupid action of this Government in endangering wage indexation. In addition to this, it cannot be stressed strongly enough that the whole deficit reducing operation is an economic nonsense. With the economy in the trough of the deepest recession since the 1930s, it is staggering that further strong deflationary measures should be implemented. With unemployment already at 5 per cent, the returns in terms of reduced inflation from further deflationary measures must surely be minimal if not negative and further deflation risks the creation of a slump and an unemployment problem from which the economy could take years to recover. 
One cannot help commenting on the subtle but crucial change which has taken place in the Liberals' economic strategy in the past 3 months. The pre-election document was primarily a strategy for recovery, the emphasis being on income tax cuts, the problems of companies, the Mathews recommendations and so on. Now, as expected, and under the influence of the advisers, whoever they are, the policy is all centred on the need for restraint, for cutting back, for belt tightening, and so on. For example, I have not seen one statement from the Government since the election on the problems of the corporate sector unless it was that its quarterly taxation payments adjustments have been deferred and, if I may say so, that is a very minimal allowance. It is a pretty rapid change over the 3 months in the attitude that was sold by the Liberals and their National Country Party colleagues prior to the election and the attitude that has been adopted since the election. Frankly, it is just another addition to the list of deceits that we have seen take place since 13 December. 
The crazy indexation decision having been covered in debate yesterday, I now turn to the other principal economic announcements since 13 December. Firstly, there was the sharp increase in the proportion of the deposits which the trading banks are required to hold in liquid assets and government securities. That increase was from 18 per cent to 23 per cent. The LGS ratio last December was, seasonally adjusted, 27 per cent which is well above the 23 per cent requirement. In effect the increase to 23 per cent reduced overnight the free liquidity of the trading banks from 9 per cent of deposits to 4 per cent so the proportion of deposits locked away- 1 am now talking about liquid government securities and statutory reserve deposits- is now 30.6 per cent by comparison with 21 per cent at this time last year. 
The next policy was the increase in the differential between public and private sector interest rates, by the reduction in some private sector rates and the increase in rates of long term securities to 10.2 per cent and on short term securities through the Australian savings bonds. Series 1 of the ASB as we know apparently raised in the region of $560m and the February loan raised $194m so that $750m was withdrawn from the non-bank private sector in about 3 weeks. 
The third policy, I remind the House, was the decision not to devalue the Australian dollar which, while undoubtedly the correct decision on anti-inflationary grounds, in this context is still a strong deflationary measure. Costs of production in Australia are out of line with overseas costs at the present exchange rate so that the importcompeting sector will continue to lose ground to imported goods. A further devaluation scare with an outflow of capital and a further tightening of domestic liquidity must be expected at any time perhaps in response to the Arbitration Commission's 6.4 per cent judgment. 
In my judgment the results of these 3 policy announcements combined with the measures to reduce the Budget deficit and some further reduction in foreign exchange reserves will be to tighten appreciably monetary conditions. On the best advice I now expect a growth in the money supply at an annual rate in the region of 8 per cent to 10 per cent, seasonally adjusted, in the first half of 1976. This is a sharp reduction from the rate of 16.6 per cent in the second half of 1975 and 23.9 percent in the first half of 1975. A tightening of credit conditions within the economy is, of course, the result of all of these policies. The free liquidity of the trading banks, seasonally adjusted, is likely to be the lowest on record in the first half of 1976 and liquidity is likely to be very tight in May and June this year. Consequently I expect private sector interest rates to rise in the months ahead and credit to become much more difficult to obtain from all institutions. This may affect particularly the corporate sector whose true profits are still very low and who are heavily reliant on borrowing. 
Perhaps it is too early to say whether the monetary measures taken will amount to a credit squeeze but if the Government deficit is less than expected, if the foreign reserves fall appreciably in the next few months, if series II of the ASB proves to be successful or if this Government implements further deflationary measures in the wake of the 6.4 per cent decision we will have a credit squeeze which will send the economy into a further nose dive. There can be little doubt that the monetary measures already taken will at least substantially reduce the rate of recovery of the economy. 
My time has almost expired and I have not dealt with the Government's expenditure cuts but they will keep. Nor have I had time to deal with the sad effect on the building industry which will also keep. In less than 10 weeks the Liberal and National Country Party Government has in my view done serious damage to an admittedly already sick economy. 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Bendigo. I was in Parliament House until midnight and in the chamber until the House rose at 10.30 p.m. I look upon it as a reflection against me and my duties because the honourable member for Bendigo suggested that I was not here. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Has he announced cuts in overseas multilateral aid programs of $ 12m, in bilateral aid of $3.2m and in food aid of $5.3m? How do these cuts reduce the rate of growth of the money supply or affect domestic demand pressure within Australia? Is this their purpose? If not, what is their purpose? Is this not a callous disregard of the pressing needs of people in underdeveloped countries in order to satisfy a false doctrine? 
-What we want at the moment in this country more than anything else is consumer confidence. We want a consumer-led recovery so that the men and women who are unemployed can get back to work and so that the under-employed resources can be used more. Instead of this, the Government is putting in jeopardy the whole of the steady recovery which was in train. In the grab for power, day one, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  then Leader of the Opposition, announced that the Senate would defer the passage of Appropriation Bill (No. 1) and Appropriation Bill (No. 2)- the Budget Bills arising from the Australian Labor Government. The main excuse given for doing this was economic mismanagement. In fact, what has happened since this grab for power is that the steady recovery which was emanating from Budget measures has been, I repeat, put in jeopardy. We in the Opposition are not suggesting that this country is not suffering from a sick economy. Of course it is. But we are suggesting that all the signs showed that that sick economy was on the way back to health. The latest unemployment figures were very heartening in this regard. Furthermore, one only has to look at the surveys of business confidence, such as the surveys of the investment decisions of businessmen, and all those surveys taken while the Australian Labor Government was in charge of this country. Those surveys showed that confidence was slowly returning. I repeat, there was a steady recovery. Now we on this side of the House suggest that it has been put seriously in jeopardy. 
Let me go through the measures to which I am referring when I suggest that this recovery has been put in jeopardy. The first is the increase in the liquid assets and government securities ratio. I will return to that later. The second is the delay in the announcement of the decision not to devalue our currency. The third is the present interest rate policy. On the fiscal side there is a mania about Budget deficits, so well outlined by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  In addition to that we have the chopping and changing in the investment allowance. Superimposed on that is the wages policy, the sacrificing of the hard-won industrial peace. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  will be covering that side of the argument in this debate. 
I have only just been told that the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  will not be allowed into this debate to talk about details of government spending cuts. I understood that the arrangements between the Government and the 
Opposition were that 2 hours of debate on matters of public importance would be allowed each week. That would mean a debate on one day with 2 speakers from each side and on another day with 3 speakers from each side. As far as I am aware, there were only 2 speakers from either side in the debate last Tuesday. If the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  knows the reasons that the agreement for 2 hours' debate has been terminated, will he give us those reasons? 
I am pointing out that 3 months ago this Liberal-Country Party coalition came to power on promises which were very different from the actual policies which it has carried out. Its preelection document emphasised income tax cuts. It emphasised tax indexation. It emphasised the problems of companies. It emphasised the Mathews recommendations on current value accounting and all that emanated from the document. Now we have instead this talk about tightening belts, talk about the need for restraint, cutting back and so on. 
Let me reiterate our belief in the need for moderating inflation. It is a necessary precondition for a return to a situation of full employment, of the full use of the resources that are available and that are now under-employed, that there should be a return of consumer confidence. I believe that the Australian Labor Government's Budget of last August, which was so wilfully and dangerously delayed by the present Government in its passage, set the scene, as I have already said, for this steady recovery. It was expected that this recovery would be led by housing as well as consumer spending. There was ample liquidity for housing in the community in the banking system. The tax cuts from 1 January assisted in the liquid situation and should have assisted in this recovery. The indexation rise in national wages expected in February- foreseen not only by those of us on this side of the House but also foreseen by those now in Government- was another way of ensuring that there was sufficient liquidity, sufficient spending power in the pockets of the citizens of this country to assist in the recovery of our economy. The easier money was already giving rise to lower interest rates and out of more housing came more need for consumer durable spending. This was the pattern that had been set. This was the hope for this country to get us back to a situation of full employment. 
The whole outlook has changed. We are now, as I said, suffering from an increase in the LGS ratio from 18 per cent to 23 per cent. The proportion of assets to be held by trading banks in liquid resources and in government securities does mean less liquidity in the banking system. As to the interest rate policy, although there was one impression given by the Treasurer in his statement at the time of announcing the Australian Government bond- the Australian savings bond, the 10.5 per cent bond- which led the community to believe that he was initiating a lower interest rate policy, every sign since then has been that that was a piece of window dressing. Indeed, interest rates are at the moment increasing across the board. It is not just a question of isolated building society rates in one State increasing. With a tightening of liquidity interest rates generally will increase. 
Then there was the decision about devaluation. I believe that the Treasurer was culpably negligent in not announcing government policy a lot earlier about devaluation. In no way do we suggest that there should be devaluation. That would indeed have been very inflationary had it occurred, but following the election result on 13 December last year the rumours which had been circulating for some weeks that the Australian dollar would be devalued gathered momentum and were further heightened by the official leaking on 15 December of the capital movement figures which showed a large net outflow. Whilst the speculation could have been easily quashed at any time no announcement of the Government's intention with respect to the Australian dollar was made until 4 January 1976. In the meantime there had been an excessively high outflow of capital in December and some $475m went out of this country and Australia's international reserves had fallen by $600m. Of course this too has had a marked effect on the liquidity in the community, a marked effect on getting back to consumer confidence, consumer spending and the recovery which would follow. 
Superimposed on all of this, of course, has been the Government's spending cuts. The first thing I want to draw to the attention of the Treasurer is the question put to him by my colleague the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  2 days ago relating to the insufficient information given to the Parliament and to the people about these spending cuts. If one totals the spending cuts so far they amount to only $275m. Through the Parliamentary Library contact with the Treasurer's own Department one learns that perhaps there is another $9m somewhere not included in Press releases from the Government, but the most that one can find is $284m. This is excluding, admittedly, staff ceilings which relate to another $60m so-called savings. It is not good enough to talk glibly about $300m and expect a proper examination of this policy by parliamentarians, by the community generally and then give insufficient information about it. 
What we do know about these cuts can be put into 3 categories. The first category is that they are sheer window dressing. I put a question yesterday to the Treasurer about the amount of socalled savings within the Department of Foreign Affairs. The question was not answered by him. It was attempted to be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  but the question was evaded. I put the question now to the Treasurer: How on earth does multilateral aid, bilateral aid and food aid to countries abroad affect the level of money supply in this country? How can it be termed anything else but window dressing in this regard when it comes to the socalled cuts in government spending within Australia? 
Another of the categories for this spending is the tragically unfair nature of them. There is an amount of $29m in relation to the Department of Social Security. I refer to the delay in the payment of pension increases. There is the very amount within the Department of Foreign Affairs to which I have just referred. The tragic result is that many people who need that aid in underdeveloped countries are not receiving it. It is just not good enough to hear an answer suggesting that it will be given in the next half of the financial year. If it is given in the next half of the financial year it will mean that much less will be appropriated in the next Budget for this very humanitarian purpose and it will mean that those in great need overseas will be without that aid at a time when there is desperate need. 
Then there are the cuts in the Department of Health in relation to pharmaceutical benefits. There has been a decrease in the amount of money available to the Department of Health, giving rise to the increase in charges for benefits in the pharmaceutical field. Does anybody imagine that that will not hit in the most austere way those on lower incomes? Similarly the $29m for the Australian Housing Corporation is worth mentioning. This money was to plug a deposit gap for those in greatest need. So there is this category of tragically unfair inequitable cuts in government spending and all to no purpose, as will be driven home by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  who will follow me in this discussion- a mania about Budget deficits, a mania which should not exist during a time of underemployment of men and resources. 
The third category is the economically stupid cuts. How can a cut in the amount of money available to the Department of Construction involving $6m do anything but delay a recovery in the construction industry? Does anybody on the government benches in this House suggest that there is not underemployment of men and resources in the construction industry? How on earth does it bring about a recovery when there is going to be $6m less available by this deferment of certain capital works? The same applies to the $7 5 m cut in funds for the Australian Industry Development Corporation. The Corporation may not have suggested that it wanted the money immediately, but any government really concerned about getting this country back on the rails of recovery should have seen that it made every move possible to spend that money. Those funds, which were investment funds, would have resulted in men and women in this country getting back into employment. 
In summary I suggest that the recovery was coming. I hope that the Government will see the error of its ways and will not continue with this credit squeeze. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Opposition is not opposing the passage of this Bill through the Parliament. The States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill 1 976 is identical, except in respect of the year cited in the title, to a Bill which was before the House last October. Because of the outrages in Australian politics which happened in November it was not possible for the original Bill to become law before the dissolution of the Parliament. It passed through this House but not through the Senate. The Bill is one of a series presented since 1970 designed to reduce the public debt of the States by substituting part of the States' Loan Council borrowings with an interest-free grant. It authorises the payment of over $430m by way of grant rather than repayable loan. In this way the interest burden on the States arising from their public debt has been considerably lessened. During the time of the Labor Government these grants increased markedly as a proportion of the total works and housing program. They rose from 24 per cent in 1970-71 to over 37 per cent in 1974-75. These grants are not tied to any specific purpose and are used by the States to expand their works programs and so create employment. They also create other benefits for the community. It is of great benefit for the States that none of the funds has to be expended on interest payments. This generosity to the States demonstrated the real concern of the Labor Government for the financial welfare of the States. Certainly in South Australia the State Government realises that it never had it so good as it did under Labor. The amount involved is in 2 parts. Firstly, included in the $430m is the grant component of the State Goverments' Loan Council program for the current financial year 1975-76. That grant component is one-third of the total program. Secondly, the amount in this Bill provides for payment of a capital grant for the financial year 1976-77 so that the States are in funds for the first half of the next financial year. The 1 976-77 amount is one-half of that amount which is appropriated by means of this Bill for 1 975-76. It is interesting to note that on the admission of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  the funds available to the States through this Bill are worth more in real terms than they were at the time the amount was decided upon. This is a tribute to the economic policies of the Australian Labor Government. The rate of inflation was not as great as it was expected to be at the time of the Premiers Conference. I quote from the Treasurer's second reading speech: ... the capital grants . . .are now estimated to be worth more in terms of actual works and services than at the time they were settled at the Premiers Conference-Loan Council meeting in June 1975. This is because cost increases have proved to be significantly less than estimated at that time. 
In the debate on a matter of public importance earlier today I mentioned that because of Labor's policies the country was slowly recovering from the twin economic ills of inflation and unemployment. That recovery has been put in jeopardy, as was said in that debate, by certain economic policies followed since 13 December. This Bill opens up the whole area of Australian Government-State Government financial relationships. Recently we had the phenomenon of a Premiers Conference devoted to this subject. From my readings of the available papers I must make these comments about that Conference.  (Quorum formed)  Firstly, I believe that the Fraser Government had not and probably has not thought through the details of its revenue sharing scheme. I noted that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and Treasurer were not able at that Premiers Conference to answer specific important, indeed vital, questions on the subjects put to them by Premiers from each of the States. They are negligent, in my opinion, in having launched such a scheme on the Australian public without thinking through the proposals in the way that they should be thought through. Secondly, if their scheme ever sees the light of day there is no real guarantee that the 
Australian Government will not alter the tax rate structure or assessment provisions and thereby adversely affect the revenues of the States. Thirdly, I point out that there is no real fail-safe figure for the States and no guarantee of the amounts that they would get if the Australian Government were, for instance, to adopt the Asprey Committee's recommendations, reduce the comparative incidence of income tax and enter the value added tax field. 
If the Australian Government turned to indirect taxes rather than direct taxes, under the provisions of the new scheme the States would be decidedly worse off. 
If you think that this is an extraordinarily interesting subject then I challenge you to get up and say something on it. Fourthly, the States own income tax assessment, or surcharge as it is apparently called, can be imposed only 'in a framework of consultation'. I might say that I am quoting words uttered by Liberal Prime Ministers and Treasurers, so it is no wonder that I am being dreary. No information was given to the Premiers Conference on the nature of this consultation. My fifth point is that the Premiers Conference proceedings showed that there is no provision for continuation of the benefit factor as there is of course in the present formula. 
In short, the Liberal-National Country Party proposals raise more questions than they answer. I reserve my judgment on the total of the proposals at this stage other than to say that the whole deal seems to me to be a singular piece of unnecessary and wasteful window dressing. As a principle I like the idea that those who have to bear the odium of raising funds, of raising taxes, should be the ones who spend them. Also I support the idea of as much decentralisation of decision making as can be reconciled with efficiency, but I believe there are far better ways of achieving this than is provided in the present Government's 'proposals as we know them at present. However, judgment will be reserved and the Opposition's positive thoughts on the subject will unfold over the next year. 
The Opposition welcomes the financial help available to the States in this measure before the House. I repeat that this Bill is our own Australian Labor Government Bill. We hope it has a speedy passage and that there will not be too much emotional nonsense talked about States' rights and associated matters from the Government benches during this debate, which nonsense would delay the passage of this essential measure through the Parliament and would not add to the body of knowledge. The Opposition supports the passage of this Bill. 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Where there is apparently this collective responsibility in the Cabinet which the Prime Minister has just mentioned, what guarantee has my State of South Australia that its point of view will be heard, leave alone its vital interest taken notice of and protected, in relation to its motor industry and other vital areas such as that, when indeed there is no representative from South Australia in the Cabinet and only a very junior voice in the lower Ministry? 
-These Bills are merely machinery measures. The Opposition is not opposing them. They are necessary to ensure that a prospective deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund can legally be financed. The Loan Bill 1976 authorises the raising of loans to finance defence expenditure. Through this device defence expenditure which would otherwise be a call on the Consolidated Revenue Fund is financed from loan raisings in the Loan Fund. The effect of the Bill is to transfer up to $700m of defence spending from a fund which is short of cash, the Consolidated Revenue Fund, to another one which is not so short, the Loan Fund. It does not authorise any expenditures in its own right. It does not involve a change in monetary policy, nor in debt management policy. In other words the Bill is not a piece of economic legislation; it is required for legal and accounting purposes. Similar Bills have been enacted by the Parliament for the same reasons almost annually for decades. 
The Loan Bill (No. 2) 1976 is to serve a similar purpose. It seems that even after the transfer of $700m of defence spending to the Loan Fund, the Consolidated Revenue Fund will still be in deficit. Loan Bill (No. 2) authorises borrowings to cover that deficit and payment of the proceeds into the Consolidated Revenue Fund. However, precedents for this measure are rare. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  mentioned 2 in his second reading speech- one in 1914 and the other in 1931. My own researchers have not turned up any more precedents than the 2 that were mentioned. I note, in passing, that the 1931 case at least was rather messy. The Bill was passed after the end of the financial year, so it would seem that the requirement of meeting the deficit before the end of the year was not properly met. 
Like the Loan Bill 1976 this Bill also does not authorise any additional spending and does not imply a change in any other aspect of economic policy. As I have said, the Opposition will not oppose these machinery Bills. But indeed there are some things that should be said while these Bills are before the House. Firstly, in his second reading speech the Treasurer said: 
Many honourable members will, no doubt, recall that the previous Government introduced legislation into Parliament in August 1975 designed, at the time, to serve similar purposes. I refer to the Loan Bill 197S. In the event, that Bill was not passed before the dissolution of Parliament - 
What a glorious understatement that is. There is certainly no doubt at all that we on this side of the House recall the Loan Bill 1975 and the disgraceful conduct of the then Opposition. The Bill was introduced on 20 August, the day after the Budget. It passed all stages in this chamber a week later. It then went to the other place, the House of obstruction. There it suffered a terrible fate. The Treasurer's most senior colleagues in that House used all their experience and cunning to delay the Bill. They portrayed it as something sinister, even as something reprehensible. Eventually they decided that it was a key Budget Bill and they deferred it. I doubt that this Parliament has ever seen so much fuss about a routine matter. I doubt that so many irrelevant questions have been asked on any other subject. I doubt that so many senior senators have ever displayed so much ignorance in debating a machinery Bill like this- a Bill almost identical to similar Bills introduced almost annually for decades, as I said earlier. 
What an amusing scene it will be to see the man who spoke loudest and longest in that sorry  Vh  months' long saga read a speech in the Senate similar to that made by the Treasurer in this place. I look forward to hearing him describe the Bill as a traditional measure and a routine machinery matter. But indeed the present Treasurer must not go without some censure for his part in the deceitful saga to which I have referred. I shall quote from the speech that he made on the Loan Bill 1975. 1 know that he is not in the House. He mentioned the reasons to me and I accept them. But at the same time he must expect that in his absence I would say these sorts of things about the speech that he made. Indeed, before reading excerpts from his speech I should like to make the point that on similar occasions in Opposition he would have been making some play of why the Treasurer was not in the chamber. I do not intend to do that while I have this job of shadow Treasurer. I know that the job of Treasurer is a very demanding one and that there are a lot of people to see, but I hope that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson),  who is gracing the table at the present time, when he is shadow Treasurer opposite me very shortly I hope, would not make a lot of the Treasurer not being in the House. I refer again to quotes from the then shadow Treasurer's speech on the Loan 
Bill 1975. This is the sort of sentence that I take from that speech: 
It is a device which explicitly avoids the need for Loan Council agreement in order to fund the Government's deficit. 
Do honourable members notice the emotional word ' device ' in this speech? 
I know that the previous Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who did such a good job in the position is speaking those words with a certain amount of irony. Indeed this Bill does get round the Loan Council and so it should. As I have said, it is a machinery measure and this is the way in which it has been done for decades. Although the present Treasurer, when he was shadow Treasurer, might have liked to have made something out of that, I am not going to act so irresponsibly as to do so. Here is another quotation from the then shadow Treasurer's speech. He said: 
The Treasurer in his Budget Speech - 
He is referring to the honourable member for Oxley who has just interjected - gave no substantive indication of the direction monetary policy will take during this financial year. 
Such a machinery measure is not supposed to be an occasion for this. Indeed the present Treasurer himself has given no indication of the course of monetary policy during the financial year. A third quotation is: . . . I specifically asked the Treasurer to indicate to the House the planned growth rate in the money supply and the general manner in which he proposed to finance the deficit. 
I throw that quotation to the Treasurer, perhaps through the Minister Assisting the Treasurer, and ask them to inform the House of the sort of question that they put in a similar debate. A fourth quotation reads: 
This debate therefore provides an opportunity for the Government to give a broad statement to the House, a statement on the monetary impact of this Budget. 
Certainly the present Treasurer's own speech does not do that. I perhaps would say responsibly that a machinery measure such as this need not provide such an occasion. The Treasurer has mentioned that he may be making a general statement on the economy shortly. I hope that he will give me some notice of that and not spring it on us with about 5 minutes notice. A fifth quotation reads: 
Quite frankly, the Treasurer cannot have it both ways. 
Once again he is referring to the honourable member for Oxley- 
He cannot, as he has done on the one hand, simply assert that the Government has no intention of printing money to pay for the deficit. 
Once again I throw that at the Treasurer and suggest that had he behaved responsibly as shadow Treasurer on this measure, I would not have needed to point out his inconsistencies as I am obliged to do on this occasion. But what were the consequences of delaying the Loan Bill 1975? A loan Bill of this type cannot be retrospective. Once defence expenditure has been charged to the Consolidated Revenue Fund, it cannot then be transferred to the Loan Fund by means of a Loan Act such as the Government is now seeking to have approved. If the Bill is not passed early enough, the Consolidated Revenue Fund could still be left in deficit. That is what has happened this year. The simple, standard, orthodox procedure was delayed for so long by an obstructionist Opposition that it could no longer do the job. It has had to be supplemented by another Bill- the Bill we are also debating now- the Loan Bill (No. 2) 1976- and by an accountant's fiddle with the National Welfare Fund balances. We raise no objections to the transfer of the National Welfare Fund balances to the Consolidated Revenue Fund. If we were as irresponsible as the present Government was in Opposition, we could make something of this fiddle. But we are not going to act irresponsibly. The balances and indeed the fund itself have been largely irrelevant since that scheme was sabotaged by the Menzies Government in 1952. Nor do we raise any objections to the Loan Bill (No. 2) 1976. 1 consider it unfortunate that through it, the States have been brought into the internal housekeeping of the national Government. I concede that under the circumstances there was no alternative, but I trust that every effort will be made to avoid a recurrence in future years of what is happening now. 
The Treasurer made great play on the fact that the Loan Bill 1976 is not open ended. He said that this is an important contrast between the Loan Bill 1 975 and the Bill that we are debating now. I must say that that is a bit of semantic nonsense. The present Bill sets a limit of $700m. That happens to be an amount which is more than defence spending is likely to be in the rest of the financial year. In practice, the limit of $700m will not be a constraint. The real constraint will be the amount of defence spending that is done. The same constraint applied to the Loan Bill 1975. Although our Bill did not contain a figure, it did contain a constraint. It was not open ended in any way. In this respect we were following a precedent set by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  in 1968. The precedent set by the right honourable member for Lowe has been followed in most loan Bills since that time. 
I have said earlier that these Bills do not in themselves affect the Government's economic policies. Nevertheless, they are essential machinery measures which must be approved if the Government's policies are to be put into effect. Without the passage of these Bills, the Government would not have the legal authority to finance the 1975-76 Budget deficit. The Government could not implement either its fiscal or its monetary policies. We are now in a rather strange position. We have a new Government and that Government is loudly proclaiming in the media that it has rejected Keynesian economics and adopted a totally new economic policy. But the totally new economic policy has not been debated in this House. I have said already that I trust that the Treasurer will soon do the right thing and bring forward a full statement of his policy which we can debate in this place. The Minister Assisting the Treasurer has nodded and given some indication that that will be happening. 
In the meantime, I should like to take the opportunity to make a few comments on the policy as it has been revealed to date in the media and in question time. The Government's policy is a policy of credit squeeze. The Government is desparately squeezing the public sector. It is also squeezing the money supply. There is nothing new in such a policy; it has been used many times before by the Parties that are now in government. We all know what the result will be. Cuts in spending mean cuts in jobs. A squeeze on money means a squeeze on jobs as well. It is the stop part of a stop-go policy. The theory is that when the economy is not performing well you stop it from performing at all, then after a time you start it going again in the hope that everyone will have learned their lesson and the whole thing will perform better. Of course you can be lucky. If you are not, you simply stop the show again. This is what is called the 'castor oil policy' and that is what is happening right now. It is the old stop-go philosophy. It is, as naive as the philosophy of the anarchist revolutionaries who believe that the most constructive thing they can do is to destroy society so that something new will arise from the ashes. They say that it cannot be worse than the present system as they ignore the suffering caused by their bombings and murder. Similarly, this Liberal-National Party Government is ignoring the unnecessary suffering and the waste that it is causing, all in the interests of this false doctrine that somehow this will make things better. 
This Government has done more than just ignore the suffering it is causing by generating an increase in unemployment. It has made the obviously absurd claim that its policies will bring a return to full employment. What blatant dishonesty that is. I challenge the Treasurer to place before this House projections of unemployment over the next 18 months prepared by the Treasury on 2 assumptions- firstly, excluding the effects of measures taken by the Government since it came to power and, secondly, allowing for those effects. If he will not bring such figures forward, I suggest that he and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  should cease talking nonsense about restoring full employment. Let them admit that their policy is a short, sharp shock policy and let them admit that they are deliberately acting to increase unemployment at this time. I have already talked in this House in these terms in the Address-in-Reply debate and in a debate on a matter of public importance which I initiated last week. My questions to the Ministry generally during the short period of this new Parliament also have been along these lines. The House will be hearing more from me and my colleagues on this subject of the unnecessary waste of men and resources caused by this Government's ill-founded policies. 
Our economy was steadily recovering from illhealth. That recovery now has been jeopardised by the Fraser Government's extraordinary castor oil theory of economic policy. The castor oil theory is: 'Let us have some strong medicine; let us go around smashing all the light globes we can find, in spite of deceitfully coming to power on the promise of turning on the lights again'. I repeat that the Opposition is not opposing these measures, because this Opposition is responsible in sharp contrast to the Opposition in the last Parliament. The very people who deceived the public by raising one red herring after another in relation to this measure when it was introduced by the Australian Labor Party Government at the end of last year now have to eat their words and look the fools, the deceiving fools, they are in proposing the same measure themselves in this Parliament. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, my second contribution in this debate - 
I thank the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  for the courtesy of making available to me 2 hours before it was presented the statement he has just read to the House. This has given me time to form a judgment on the statement. Never in the history of this Parliament has as much as this been said to so little purpose. We have learnt nothing new from this statement and I can describe it only as a long and windy statement. We have heard it all before. In a nutshell the message is: Damage the public sector, confront employees to ensure industrial turmoil and let us hope- it is a forlorn hope in my view- that the private sector will take up the slack. In the friendliest way I want to tell the Treasurer about his new nickname. I do this because I look upon myself as a friend of his.  His  nickname is 'Afro'. It has nothing to do with his appearance. It happens to be short for aphrodisiac because he is always trying to stimulate the private sector. This is the reputation he will have and the nickname will go with it. 
To elaborate further I turn to the philosophy of the Treasurer as it was given in this Parliament. Unfortunately it goes along the following lines: Let us ignore that the rest of the developed world is suffering from exactly the same economic ills as we are. I hope that the Treasurer and other honourable members will take a good look at the leading article in today's  Australian Financial Review  which points out so clearly that one only has to take the report on France of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and substitute the name 'Australia' for the name 'France'. From the report one could form the view that France has almost the same problems as we have . in Australia today. Yet this long and windy statement attributes to the previous Government all the ills of our economy. This is nonsense. 
Let us ignore, so goes this statement and the philosophy of the Government, that the economic ills of inflation combined with unemployment, or stagflation as it is now mostly called, are not going to respond to the old castor oil economic theories. A dose of strong medicine is what we need, so they say on the Government benches. Where and when has this worked anywhere else in the the world in the circumstances from which we are suffering now? I am sick and tired of hearing that they are not Keynesians. I am sick and tired of hearing the misuse of what  President  Ford said in the United States of America, what Harold Wilson said in the United Kingdom and what Pierre Trudeau said in Canada. What they are saying is quite irrelevant to what this Liberal-National Country Party Government is doing in Australia now. They too are not Keynesians, as we in the Australian Labor Party in the new and changing world are not Keynesians. The policies of the Labor Party were much closer to what is being done in the United States of America, Great Britain and Canada at present than are the policies of those who are now using the words of Ford, Wilson and Trudeau in Australia. Those countries are not applying a stop policy in the old stop-go syndrome. They are not operating credit squeezes at a time of severe unemployment. They are seeking to come out of their troubles slowly because they know that it is only in a steady and slow way that they will properly come out of their troubles. They are not using, in short, the castor oil economic philosophies of the present LiberalNational Country Party Government. Certainly in Great Britain I concede the Labour Government is looking ahead at projected government expenditures and it is saying that it will not increase the sphere of the gross domestic product in the public sector. 
Let us look at the comparative figures of the public sector proportions. After 3 years of the Australian Labor Party Government I can say proudly, although we can argue about the rate of change, that we had increased the public sector proportion to 3 1 per cent in order to get rid of the public poverty compared with private affluence. In the United States of America, the great home of free enterprise, the proportion is already 33 per cent; in Canada it is 39 per cent; in Great Britain it is over 40 per cent; and in Sweden, a country which has fewer of the economic problems of stagflation than any other country in the developed world, the proportion is 50 per cent. 
This is why it is a false doctrine that we have had preached to us in the past and again today in the long and windy statement that was read to this House. There is no joy in this false government doctrine. Of course it is important to ensure that inflation is contained. Of course there is a causal relationship between inflation and unemployment. Of course it is important not to have excess liquidity- too much demand chasing too few goods- at a time of relatively full employment. Of course we have to educate the Australian public that our resources are not limitless; that wages have to be contained to reasonable increases; that one man's wage increase may be another man's job. All these things were said by Labor Treasurers Frank Crean, Jim Cairns and Bill Hayden. They have all been said in this House by Labor Treasurers, and it is not adding anything to the body of knowledge to hear these things said again today. 
However, that is not the point here and now. That is irrelevant here and now. We are experiencing a time of unemployment and of under employment of resources. We must act in a much more sophisticated way than is the LiberalNational Country Party Government. We must stimulate demand in areas where there is excess capacity right now. We must not allow interest rates to increase to the extent that investment decisions on the margin will not be taken. We must not cut government expenditure which would directly and indirectly throw men on the labour market which is already oversupplied with men and women. We must not institute a credit squeeze such as is being instituted right now by the Government. This credit squeeze will mean that loans will not be available for investment which will use the resources which are not being used right now. 
All these destructive acts which are being undertaken by the Government and which are the basis of its philosophy are the results of the economic measures the Government has introduced since 13 December. I outlined them in my Address-in-Reply speech. We have outlined them in debates on matters of public importance in this House. They have been dealt with by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  in this House already. We only have to look at the slow way in which the Government denied that there would be a revaluation of our currency. A sum of $600 m flowed out of our foreign exchange reserve because the Government did not act quickly. We only have to look at the so-called monetary package. The Government was trying to mislead the public by talking about lower interest rates for overdrafts. What is the use of lower overdraft interest rates when the money is not available to obtain an overdraft? At the time the Government brought in the Australian savings bonds with an interest rate of 10.5 per cent. They have had a marked effect on the monetary market in this country, with interest rates being increased in the building societies and elsewhere. 
More than anything else we must not strut around this country, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer are strutting around this country, Scrooge-like, talking in terms of an Otto Niemeyer here, believing that the same conditions apply now as applied in the 1930s, talking about tightening belts and a measure of restraint. We heard these sorts of phrases again in the statement today. They are useless phrases because they are killing the consumer confidence that is needed to get the country back to operating at the level of activity at which it should be operating, to get it back to full employment. At the end of last year we were slowly coming out of our troubles. This was in spite of the outrages of the Liberal-National Country Party Opposition in delaying the passage of the Australian Budget for 1975-76. What more could have killed confidence than that outrage in delaying the Budget? In spite of that the surveys of business confidence- I am ignoring now the one that was announced today which originated from the Institute of Applied Economics because there are plenty of other surveys to counter that one- show that we were coming out of those problems and that recovery was on the way. That slow, steady recovery has now been put in jeopardy by the Government's economic measures, by its monetary package, by its cuts in government expenditure, and by the other policies it has instituted since 13 December. Let me refer to a few headlines in newspapers around Australia relating to government expenditure cuts. The headline in the  Australian Financial Review  of 20 February 1976 states: 
Fraser Governmernt policies are recipe for building industry collapse. 
The article beneath it states: 
It now appears clear that the Fraser Government in Canberra, obsessed with an erroneous interpretation of the Federal deficit and oblivious of the pipeline delays inherent in building and construction, is bent on compounding the gathering problems in the building and construction sector. 
The  West Australian  of 28 February carried the headline: 
Funds run short for home loans. 
That newspaper said: 
The days when almost anyone could get a home loan from a permanent building society in Western Australia are over. 
A headine on 2 March read: 
The January building proposals slide 8.2 per cent as Government housing slumps. 
These are the direct results of Liberal-National Country Party Government policies. They are a direct result of cuts in government spending. I admire and commend the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  for the work he is doing pointing this out to his own colleagues. It is ridiculous to cut government spending in areas where that spending could be put to immediate use. Is anybody suggesting that there is not an under employment of men and resources in the building industry? Of course there is right now. Government policies are directly responsible for under employment of resources in the building industry and will be responsible for the position getting worse. 
The statement we just heard from the Treasurer shows no change of heart on the part of the Government. It will rue the day that it took on board the false policies which were outlined in the statement. In the meantime the country suffers.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later time. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I would like to take this opportunity of congratulating the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  on his maiden speech. It will be 10 days before anybody else speaking in the Address-in-Reply debate will have the opportunity of doing so. I want to congratulate the honourable member also for choosing one subject such as he did and showing such knowledge of it. He showed that he has carried out quite an extensive study of the motor industry. 
I am bound to point out, I hope generously, that the honourable member was supporting the decisions that have recently been taken on the motor industry. When I say recently, I am talking in terms of the last 12 months. He is quite correct in doing so. I believe this is also the view of the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  although he was making somewhat different noises in ignorance on the subject about a year or more ago. In fact the Minister who even more recently has made ignorant noises on the subject has also come around to the same conclusions. I hope that nothing will be taken away from my sincerity in congratulating the honourable member for Kingston when I point out that the first requirement that he and his colleagues on the other side of the House have is to place a copy of his speech in the hands of his own Leader and Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  because only yesterday during question time the Prime Minister when answering a question I put to him displayed extraordinary ignorance, the sort of ignorance that was being displayed by the Minister for Industry and Commerce on the subject of the motor industry in this country. 
It is bad for South Australia and bad for this country that the leading person in the Government at this time is displaying such ignorance. I repeat that that ignorance was not displayed by the honourable member for Kingston who made a thoughtful, well researched, good speech. I also repeat that the first requirement is that his speech be put in the hands of the Prime Minister. I commend to government supporters who listened to the honourable member for Kingston not only to take what he had to say as authoritative but also to research the contents of his speech when they get a copy of  Hansard  so that they will be all well informed on the problems of the motor industry and realise its importance to South Australia. 
The Lonsdale 4-cylinder engine plant must go ahead. It can go ahead without in any way jeopardising employment in the panel industry in South Australia. These things were said by the honourable member for Kingston. They are of necessity to be said by him if he is to survive in this Parliament, but I believe that is not the reason why he said them. He said them because he has researched the subject properly. I do not want to take up any more of the time of the House. I have spoken because I wanted to congratulate the honourable member and to thank him for the research he has done and to commend his speech to all honourable members. 
-The Opposition is not opposing the passage of these Bill. which are standard machinery measures. The 2 Bills, the Loans (Qantas Airways Limited) Bill 1976 and the Loans (Australian National Airlines Commission) Bill 1976, are to enable overseas borrowings to be made on behalf of Qantas Airways Limited and Trans-Australia Airlines. The borrowings are for the purchase of new aircraft. In the case of Qantas, the money will be used for the purchase of an additional Boeing 747 aircraft with associated spare parts. The total cost which will be incurred by Qantas in this package is $33.9m. The Export-Import Bank of the United States of America- Eximbank, as it is called- has already agreed by means of a pre.liminary commitment to provide a credit facility of $12.85m which is roughly 40 per cent of the cost of the aircraft. I presume that this 40 per cent of the aircraft cost is without spares because my mathematics tells me that 40 per cent of the total cost of $33.9m is not $12.85m. I hope that those who write the second reading speeches of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on these loan Bills in the future will make these details clear. 
The loan carries an interest rate of 9 per cent over a period of 10 years. Because of the special financial needs of the aircraft industry, the loan is repayable over the last 5 of the 10 years of its life. The loan will be in the name of the Australian Government and, as on past occasions, it will be on-lent to the airline on the same terms and conditions as the funds are borrowed by the Australian Government. The airline will meet all costs and charges associated with the loan, so there will be no net charge on the Government, thus the taxpayers of this nation will not be incurring any costs. The costs will be incurred of course, by those who use the airlines, and that is as it should be. This loan is part of an on-going program by Qantas to expand its Boeing 747 fleet and the aircraft to be purchased by this loan will bring the number of 747 aircraft in the Qantas fleet to twelve. 
If the Parliament approves this Bill Qantas will have government backing for a borrowing of $25.7m of the total $33.9m required by the airline for this package, that is, for the aircraft plus associated parts. Qantas will find from its own resources $8.2m. I have stated already that Eximbank has a preliminary commitment to lend $12.85m of the $25.7m total borrowing under this Bill. The balance of the funds required, namely, another $ 12.85m, will come from leading overseas banks and underwriters. My research tells me that it will be a surprise if this loan for the balance is not negotiated with Eximbank. Incidentally, if the life of the loan is less than 10 years the interest rate is reduced under the Eximbank terms from 9 per cent to 8.75 per cent. Nevertheless it should be said that against that there is no firm commitment to Eximbank and the total loans could be negotiated elsewhere. No doubt if lower interest rates are the result of the upturn in the United States economy which is taking place at present, lower interest rates could be achieved in relation to this loan which it is more likely than not will be negotiated in the United States. 
The other Bill provides for the Australian Government to borrow on behalf of TAA an amount up to $7.4m for the purchase of an additional Boeing 727 jet aircraft plus spare parts. That will bring the number of aircraft in the TAA 727 fleet to seven. This amount represents 80 per cent of the total cost of the purchase of this aircraft plus spares, the total cost being $9.3m. As with Qantas, the loan will be on-lent to TAA and the Government will not be left holding any tab for this loan or its charges. In fact, the funding arrangements are the same as those for the Qantas loan. In other words Eximbank has already agreed in a preliminary deal to lend half of the amount  pro tern  on the same terms as the Qantas loan but the total package will be let out for tender, if it has not already gone out for tender, after this Bill becomes an Act. The Qantas loan has already been approved by the Loan Council and only the precise details have yet to be approved. However, the TAA loan has yet to come before the Loan Council but it is anticipated that it will be put before the Council at its meeting in June this year. The TAA aircraft is due to be delivered in November 1976 whereas the Qantas 747 is due to be delivered earlier, namely, next July. 
These Bills give opportunity for those in the Parliamentary Labor Party who specialise in transport matters to enter the debate. I am glad to say that the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and perhaps some other of my colleagues intend to enter this debate. Before I as shadow Treasurer leave the financial aspects of the Bills, I would like to ask the Treasurer to state explicitly when he is replying to the debate, why these Bills are necessary. This was not done in the Treasurer's second reading speech. Of course, it is not good enough to say that this has always been the way in which Qantas and TAA have financed their aircraft purchases from overseas, although I realise that even Labor Governments have put through Bills such as these. I have no doubt that the answer to my question is that the airlines achieve better terms for their borrowings when these loans pass through government hands. This should be said, provided it is correct, and perhaps the Minister will say so when replying. Because of his presence in the House now, I am presuming that the Minister for Transport will be replying to this debate notwithstanding that the Treasurer introduced these Bills. As shadow Treasurer I am leading for the Opposition on these matters and am putting only financial questions. 
In a similar way Ansett Transport Industries Ltd is helped with its loans when it wants to purchase aircraft abroad. I ask the Minister for Transport- perhaps he knows the answer- why Ansett is not in the market on this occasion. We have not a Bill relating to Ansett before the House at the present time. Normally whatever TAA does Ansett does, or vice versa. They are like Tweedledum and Tweedledee. Has Ansett decided to make to do an older aircraft whereas TAA has decided to trade in its equivalent older aircraft on this new one? I hope the Minister gives us the reasons in this debate. 
This raises the whole question of which undertakings in our country should have their overseas borrowings guaranteed and which should not. Has the Government ever guaranteed the overseas borrowings of, say, the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd, in order to achieve a lower rate of interest and thus, presumably, a lower price for steel? If not, why not? Do we have the situation of these borrowings being guaranteed in the case of the Australian airline industry because we have the phenomenon of two of the three large corporations in that industry being public enterprises? Qantas and TAA, of course, are the public enterprises. Is this another example of the worth of public enterprise, namely, a lower rate of interest on overseas borrowings? I look forward to hearing the Minister philosophising on the subject when he replies to this debate. 
To encourage him to philosophise on this subject I am going to embark on a little of my own philosophising. Qantas and TAA are two magnificent examples of public enterprise which are a credit to our nation. I congratulate all who work in those enterprises. They have their bad times and they have their good times. However, I make the claim that they are both managed as well as any concerns in our country and those who work for those two public enterprise corporations are as dedicated to the job in hand as the employees of any other corporations. We hear a lot of nonsense talked about the inefficient public sector and the efficient private sector. I say it is nonsense because some public concerns are efficient and some inefficient. Similarly, in the private sector efficiency and inefficiency are more related to whether a concern is too big and impersonal than to whether it is a public concern or a private concern. 
We are suffering at the present time government by a Liberal-National Country Party coalition which sees all virtue in the private sector and has set about, in my view, to damage the public sector. This is a false doctrine. The people are already beginning to suffer from this false doctrine. My colleagues and I are committed to the mixed economy. We see some things best done in the public sector; we see other things best done in the private sector. We see still other things best done in industries whose structures provide competition between the private and the public sectors. Banking is an example of a mixed industry with competition between the Commonwealth Bank and some State banks on the one hand and the private banks on the other hand. The insurance industry is already a mixed industry with State government insurance offices providing competition with private insurance companies. It is difficult to credit this when one contemplates the ballyhoo which took place last year over the formation of an Australian Government Insurance Corporation, which formation would have mainly merely rationalised and co-ordinated the work of the separate State insurance offices. 
The domestic airlines industry is another example of a mixed industry. Frankly, my personal view is that we would have cheaper, more co-ordinated, more satisfactory internal travel, if like Germany with its Lufthansa, our domestic as well as overseas airlines were totally in public hands. The inevitable result of the 2-airline policy under which we have one public company and one private company- TAA and Ansett- is that both chase the maximisation of profits, within safety limits of course, which means the optimum use of aircraft. This means that everywhere in Australia on the main routes, with few exceptions, aircraft are taking off in tandem following each other from one capital city to the other. I mentioned Tweedledum and Tweedledee earlier. There is hardly competition when it comes to timetables. Very often 2 aircraft make the same journey each half full. What choice does this give the Australian public? Certainly not enough choice. There is some choice, and I welcome the competition that there is in some spheres, but there is no choice to speak of in timetables between capital cities. This is an inevitable result of the 2-airline policy as we have it now. If we want competition it would be better if that competition in this industry was between 2 public enterprise companies so that maximisation of profits would not be the main goal and so that the present situation of aircraft following each other everywhere would cease and a real choice would be given to the Australian public. Before anybody accuses me of being against Ansett I want to place on record that I think Ansett runs a very good airline. As far as I can see it is well managed and its employees are happy in its service, but if it were a public enterprise and not a private enterprise it would not be obliged to chase profits to the same extent as it is now; it could rationalise its service with TAA to a great extent and the Australian public would be given an improved service by both airlines jointly. 
-There are mindless people in our community who make such remarks as 'like the railways' when they should know better and should know that railways are a declining industry everywhere and that no private company will take over any railway. They should know better and should know that even in the United States of America, that geat home of free enterprise, the private companies cannot give away the railways quickly enough to public enterprise because of changes in tastes and changes in industry generally. So that was a mindless intervention in this debate. I have no doubt that mindless people in our community will shout 'socialism' at this idea of mine just expressed about having 2 public enterprise airlines perhaps competing with each other. Let me state that that is a private view. 
You are one of the mindless people who would do just that sort of thing. I do not believe that socialism is a dirty word anyway. It is the society in which decision-making is based on the test of what is in the community interest, not just private profit interest. In many cases ownership in private hands is in the community interest. In those cases none of us on the Opposition side would want to transfer that ownership to public hands just for the sake of doing so. I have given my own personal specific arguments in the case of the airline industry to show why I believe that the 2-airline system, with one airline public and one private, is unsatisfactory. My purpose will be achieved if my remarks stimulate some discussion on this subject in the public interest. 
None of us should be doctrinaire on these issues. We live in an ever changing world. The present Government's doctrine of damaging the public sector is a false doctrine and the people of Australia will soon see that it is a false doctrine. Funnily enough, the only political group in the Australian political society today which is not in some part socialist in outlook is the Workers Party. It would do away with the public sector. It would have no pensions and no welfare of any kind, perhaps just a small defence force and a police force as well, which is being just slightly socialist. Our Liberal and National Country Party opponents shout, as we have heard one or two of the mindless ones say in the House today, that socialism is a dirty word. The National Country Party in particular practises socialism vigorously with its Government intervention in paying superphosphate and so many other subsidies. Its socialism is very much one way socialism- a greedy look after self. The good independent country people of Australia will not be hoodwinked with this sort of doctrine for long. 
The airline industry is a living example of public enterprise, indeed of socialism, at work. I have given my personal views on how the domestic airline undertakings could be improved, but generally speaking the domestic industry is a healthy industry. Thank goodness it is being helped by these Bills, by borrowing money more cheaply via the Government than would otherwise apply. In itself this borrowing overseas is I suppose socialism at work through the Government. Thank goodness on this occasion the public sector is not being damaged by the LiberalNational Country Party Government. The Australian Labor Party Opposition does not oppose these Bills. 
-The Opposition is not opposing the Financial Agreement Bill and the National Debt Sinking Fund Amendment Bill. They make provision for the formal transfer of $ 1,000m of State debt to the Australian Government. Under an agreement reached with the States in 1970, the Australian Government has paid grants to the States to meet interest and sinking fund contributions on a growing parcel of debt, beginning at $200m in 1970-71 and rising by $200m each year to reach $l,000m in 1974-75. As the Treasurer  (Mr 
Lynch) said in his second reading speech, it was originally envisaged that at the end of the 5-year period, the $ 1,000m parcel of debt would be formally transferred to the Australian Government. However, the 1970 Act made no provision for the transfer. The Labor Government discussed the matter with the States last year and agreed that Bills along the lines of those now before the House would be brought forward to effect the transfer. 
An interesting feature of this arrangement is that under it the grants which have been paid to the States in the last 5 years for debt charges assistance will cease. Page 100 of Budget Paper No. 1 shows that the grants amounted to no less than $75.5m last year and that they will be nil this year. But obviously the Australian Government will still be meeting the interest cost on the debt as it will be taking over that debt under this legislation, and it will still be meeting the sinking fund charges. These will total more than $57.5m as this year there will be interest on sinking fund payments for all the debt for a full year. Under the arrangement the States will continue to be relieved of these costs. But the way in which the figures are presented indicate that there is an apparent drop in the Australian Government's assistance to the States. This of course is a deception. I suggest to the Treasurer or perhaps to the Minister Assisting the Treasurer the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  who is seated at the table, that they might consider this issue. I know that it is merely a presentational point, but I am afraid that such presentational points can influence policy considerations if they are not kept in mind and they certainly contribute to public misunderstanding. 
This brings me to a related point. During the Labor Government time in power, or in office- we were never in power because we never had a majority in the Senate- we were portrayed by the States, especially those which were governed by our political opponents, as being anti-State. Firstly we were accused of starving the States for funds. Let me set the record straight. In the period from 1972-73 to 1975-76, total payments to or for the States and local government rose from $3,6 14m to an estimated $8,566m- an increase of 137 per cent. This increase was significantly faster than the growth in total outlays of the Australian Government. These outlays grew by 1 1 5 per cent. 
Secondly, we were accused of restricting the growth of general purpose funds and allowing only specific purpose or tied funds to grow. Of course it is true that we increased specific purpose payments much faster than general purpose funds, but this was not done to starve the States of general purpose funds. It was done because it was only through specific purpose payments to the States that we could meet some of the needs of the people- needs for schools, needs for hospitals and health services, needs for sewerage and so on. The States general purpose funds were not squeezed in the process. In 1972-73 they increased on an adjusted basis by 14.4 per cent; in 1973-74 by 16.7 per cent and in 1974-75 by 32.7 per cent. They were estimated to rise by 27.2 per cent in 1975-76. These increases were much greater than the rate of increase in prices or the rate of increase in population. The figures show not only that we did not squeeze the States' general purpose funds, but also that we provided the States generously with additional assistance for their special needs. 
To quote  Senator Steele  Hall, a Liberal Movement senator from my own State, with the ..'.../-/ grab for power' of this Liberal-National Country Party Coalition, a number of false doctrines have been given birth. I talked on one of them earlier in the day when we were debating the Loan Bills relating to Qantas Airways Ltd and TransAustralia Airlines. There is the doctrine of private affluence and public squalor, of cutting government expenditure and, by some magic which of course does not exist, thus bringing about a revival in the economy. There will be a revival in the economy but it will be due to the world upturn, which has already started in the United States of America. All that this false doctrine now being perpetrated by this Government is doing for Australia at the present time as exemplified in the policies of cutting Government expenditure and bringing on a credit squeeze, is deliberately creating unemployment and delaying the recovery in Australia 
In this debate I am able to draw attention to another Liberal-National Country Party Coalition false doctrine. It is to the effect that what is done in this national Parliament by the Aus.tralian Government, as opposed to what is being done in the States, is- I quote from a speech made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in Victoria over the weekendinterference by Big Brother'. This is how our present Liberal Prime Minister described what goes on here in a Victorian election broadcast which was then taken up by other media. Let me quote some more of what I consider to be false, misleading nonsense. I quote from the Prime Minister's election broadcast transcript He said: 
Labor believes that all government power should be placed in the hands of a few men. 
Labor does no such thing. The whole history of the Labor movement has been one of as wide a participation in decision making as is possible. For instance that is what Caucus is all about: Participation by as large a group of people in decision making as possible. This applies wherever the Labor Party operates. It applies to the greatest extent possible in the structures which we set up. On the other hand, our Liberal Party and National Country Party opponents are quite different. They elect their leader then they leave it to him. So often frankly he becomes a tyrant as some of them may be learning now when they disagree with Government policies. At the present time, power is in the hands of a few men. But this is not so when Labor is in office. Indeed, with no majority in the Senate, as I said earlier, it probably is arguable whether Labor has been in power for a number of years; it has merely been in office. Let me go on quoting this nonsense from the Prime Minister's weekend broadcast. Referring to Labor people, he said: 
They believe government should have greater control over individual lives. 
I answer to that: Labor people do not so believe. This statement is false and misleading. Let me just cite just one example in this whole area of Australian Government-State government relationships which are the subject of these Bills before us to make a lie of that claim by the Prime Minister. What about the Australian Assistance Plan- a Labor Government innovation. Never in the history of our country has there been a better plan to stimulate people into working out their own priorities and planning for their own needs. The Australian Assistance Plan is in its essence a living example of a government saying to the people: 'We do not want to be paternalistic; we do not seek to tell you what you want; we do not want to administer the program affecting your individual lives'. In an unprecedented way the Labor Government went to the people- and government now will still go to the people if the Australian Assistance Plan is not killed by this conservative Government- and said: 'You work out your own needs; you use your own resources to the extent that they exist; you co-ordinate your own voluntary organisations and so on; and to the greatest extent possible we in a Labor Government will provide the resources for you to fulfil your needs '. This is regional administration. It is administration much closer to the people than anything which State Liberal governments have had to offer. Yet we have to put up with this false nonsense in the Prime Minister's electoral broadcast over Victorian radio stations, some of which, I am sorry to say, was repeated on other stations, including the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Let me quote further from the Prime Minister's speech. He also said: 
Labor has tried to destroy the role of the States and has even attempted to exercise central control over local governments. 
This measure we are specifically debating tonight has the effect of the Australian Government taking over $ 1,000m of the debts of the State governments. It is a measure which was arranged by the Australian Labor Government and is not in any way anti-State. The Premier of my State of South Australia, Don Dunstan, has freely stated on many occasions that the South Australian State Government's resources were never so plentiful to fulfil people's needs as they were when the Australian Labor Government was in power. What Labor governments are about is looking after the needs of people. If State governments do not or cannot fulfil those needs, national governments must step in to do so. Our national government moved into education because the needs of the people demanded it and the States were unwilling and unable to do so. We acted similarly on the needs of the cities and on the need for an adequate hospital and health service for our country. Where there are needs and those needs are not being fulfilled, an Australian Labor Government did not and will not stand back doctrinairely and say: 'Oh, that is the duty of the States. We must not step in there'. An Australian Labor government will always seek to arrange for the administration of national programs, designed to satisfy national needs, to be carried out as close to the people as possible- at the local level. Often this will mean joint administration with the States. And why not? That is co-operative federalism. On other occasions, as with the Australian Assistance Plan which I mentioned earner, it will mean sitting down with the States and arranging for a regional organisation which is closer to the people and often based on local government to carry out the administration of these national programs. 
The last sentence of this false and misleading election broadcast of the Prime Minister, and I have quoted already from the Prime Minister's efforts at the weekend, mentioned Labor exercising central control over local government. How did this happen? How is it supposed to have happened? I have received no complaints from local government organisations in my electorate and I hope and believe that I take a normally active interest in what is going on in our nation. Yet I do not recall local government agitation against what Labor had done for local government when 
Labor was in office. On the contrary, it was the Labor Government which allowed local government direct access to the Grants Commission to put its case for additional funds to fulfil its purposes. It was the Labor Government which wanted local government to have direct access to the Loans Council but was prevented from achieving this by the former Liberal-Country Party Opposition. Where the needs have been great and where the district was a relatively poor one, funds were made available to local government from the national Labor government as they were never made available before. These funds were then left for local government to administer in its own way. Similarly with the Regional Employment Development scheme. This scheme was a living example of Labor respecting local government and arranging the spending of additional funds through local government. 
If I have a regret about the 2 Bills which we are debating tonight it is that although they help the States enormously they do not help local government in any way. Instead we are being offered by the Liberal-National Country Party coalition a so-called revenue sharing federalism program which is turning out to be a sham- mere window dressing. I have no apology for repeating what I said in the House on this subject on 26 February because the questions which I asked in that speech bear repeating since they have not been answered in any way. I was speaking in the second reading debate on the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill 1976 and I said: 
Recently we had the phenomenon of a Premiers Conference devoted to this subject. 
That is, the subject of Australian-State government financial relationships. 
From my readings of the available papers I must make these comments about that Conference. Firstly, I believe that the Fraser Government had not and probably has not thought through the details of its revenue sharing scheme. I noted that the Prime Minister and Treasurer were not able at that Premiers Conference to answer specific important, indeed vital, questions on the subjects put to them by Premiers from each of the States. They are negligent, in my opinion, in having launched such a scheme on the Australian public wihout thinking through the proposals in the way that they should be thought through. Secondly, if their scheme ever sees the light of day there is no real guarantee that the Australian Government will not alter the tax rate structure or assessment provisions and thereby adversely affect the revenues of the States. Thirdly, I point out that there is no real fail-safe figure for the States and no guarantee of the amounts that they would get if the Australian Government were, for instance, to adopt the Asprey Committee's recommendations, reduce the comparative incidence of income tax and enter the value added tax field. 
If the Australian Government turned to indirect taxes rather than direct taxes, under the provisions of the new scheme the States would be decidedly worse off. 
Fourthly, the States own income tax assessment, or surcharge as it is apparently called, can be imposed only 'in a framework of consultation'. 
No information was given to the Premiers Conference on the nature of this consultation. My fifth point is that the Premiers Conference proceedings showed that there is no provision for continuation of the benefit factor as there is of course in the present formula. 
In short, the Liberal-National Country Party proposals raise more questions than they answer ... the whole deal seems to me to be a singular piece of unnecessary and wasteful window dressing. As a principle I like the idea that those who have to bear the odium of raising funds, of raising taxes, should be the ones who spend them. Also I support the idea of as much decentralisation of decision making as can be reconciled with efficiency, but I believe there are far better ways of achieving this than is provided hi the present Government 's proposals as we know them at present. 
I make no apology for repeating those views on the so-called new federalism. It is very appropriate to do so in a second reading debate such as this on a Bill which assists the States enormously by reducing their debts enormously. The Opposition is happy to support these Bills. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Why were the altered procedures relating to the releases of Industries Assistance Commission reports not announced in this Parliament where they could be debated properly? Under the new procedures announced by him through the media, what protection is there for consumers and the industries from incomplete information going before Cabinet when vital decisions affecting savings, investments and employment are made? 
-I intend to speak for only a few minutes. On behalf of the Opposition I welcome this statement and the news of the signing of this double tax agreement with the Netherlands today. It is natural that more and more countries which have increasing economic relationships with Australia should want to enter into double tax agreements with our country. We welcome the Netherlands into this fold. As the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has said, we already have modern double tax agreements with the United Kingdom, New Zealand, Japan and West Germany. Using my memory of the days when I studied and practised taxation law, I thought we also had a double tax agreement with the United States of America and possibly with Canada too. I am surprised that the United States was not mentioned in that context. Perhaps the reason is that we do not have a modern double tax agreement with the United States. Perhaps one is being prepared right now in that regard. 
One factor which definitely has to be borne in mind is that these agreements, if I understand the position correctly, are very much in favour of the citizens and corporations of the investor country. The country in which the investment is being made loses revenue. There is little doubt that the agreements with the United Kingdom, Japan and West Germany- I exclude New Zealand from this- and now this agreement with the Netherlands, are very much for the benefit of investors in those other countries at the expense of tax revenue being received into the Australian Treasury. Those countries have many more citizens and corporations investing in our country than we have Australian citizens and companies - investing in those countries. The mitigating factor is, of course, that the eased administration and the simpler taxation factors resulting from such a double tax agreement such as the one with the Netherlands may lead to increased investment in Australia and therefore would not lead to any reduction in the tax revenue for our Treasury overall. 
This must lead us to the question: Do we want this investment? The answer to this in my view, with qualifications, is yes we do want the investment. Ours is a developing country. We cannot generate all the savings we require within our own country. What we need so desperately and have needed for so long are proper guidelines relating to that foreign investment. It would seem that the Liberal and National Country Parties have now at last learned the errors of their ways. They have realised that they allowed much unnecessary investment in Australia in the 1 950s and 1960s by foreign investors and have accepted the general foreign investment principles laid down by the Australian Labor Party and indeed instituted in the guidelines brought in by the Australian Labor Government. 
In these circumstances one cannot object to a double tax agreement with the Netherlands such as this one announced by the Treasurer today. As the Treasurer has said, a Bill will be brought before this House later and I have no doubt that that is when we will talk on this subject again rather than on the motion to note this paper. This measure was originally entered into by the former Treasurer of the Australian Labor Government on 21 October 1975. Therefore it is no surprise that I welcome it on behalf of the Labor Opposition and welcome the news of the signing of this agreement today. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-In his major statement to the House on the economy and economic policy the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has presented, it seems to me, a very disturbing document.  His  statement is dominated by presumptions of a largely ideological nature. To cite just one at this stage, there is the assertion that a high level of Government spending and large deficits are the source of our problems. Although the Treasurer, and apparently his colleagues in the Liberal-National Country Party Government believe that tackling these two phenomena will solve the problems, no sound justifications are given for the adoption of the basic assumptions. It appears rather that facts and arguments have been distorted to fit in with the assumptions. Further, although the Treasurer has spelled out a number of measures and impressed upon us the great necessity for their being carried out, no discussion whatsoever of how these measures will indeed solve the problems confronting us has been presented in the statement which is the subject of" this debate. 
The 1975-76 Budget of the Labor Government was framed to contain a sufficient policy mix to enable the Australian economy to move out of recession without sparking off widespread inflation. We do not and did not pretend that such a recovery could be anything but slow. Government expenditure was contained at a level which was sufficient to prevent erosion of many benefits the Australian people had reaped under the Labor Government but which gave the private sector room to expand. The size of the deficit merely indicated the degree of slack, the degree of unemployed resources present in the economy. With the recognition that a true Australian economic revival was dependent on the world revival- signs of which had already emerged- the 1975-76 Budget prepared the groundwork for locking in on the world recovery. Measures already in the pipeline when the Labor Government was removed from office- for example, tax cuts already announced and measures to lower interest rates- were designed to allow for a steady growth in consumer demand and to make investment borrowing resulting from demand stimulus more attractive. 
There is evidence that the strategy of the Labor Government was beginning to work. Perhaps the best sign that indeed a recovery was underway, induced by the last Budget, came from the reaction of the present Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to the January and February unemployment figures. The Minister deliberately played down signs of a firming in the labour market, preferring to ascribe a fall of 40 000 in the number of unemployed to the vagaries of the statistical process of seasonal adjustment. A further examination by the Minister of the process of seasonal adjustment will reveal that as the adjustment procedure is based on historical levels of unemployment, seasonal adjustment at this time of high unemployment actually understates falls in unemployment. No doubt the Minister's reluctance to join with the  Australian  newspaper in acclaiming 'thousands quit dole queues' derives from his realisation that dominant influences on present activity and employment levels are the fiscal and monetary actions of four to six months ago-that is, the measures taken in the 1975-76 Labor Budget, not any policies which have been brought in by the new Government. Other indicators released for December and January, among them new vehicle registrations, tend to support the contention that the predicted recovery was indeed underway. As one journalist, Ken Davidson, in the Melbourne  Age  so succinctly put it: 
Hayden had the answers after all. 
However, the chances that the Australian people would benefit from the policies of the Labor Budget have severely diminished since 13 December. The world recovery, which becomes more and more evident as each new set of indicators is released, becomes more and more remote from the Australian people following each successive action of this Government in the area of economic policy. 
The chances for economic recovery in this country are being sacrificed upon the ideological presumptions I alluded to at the beginning of this speech. These presumptions emanated from a philosophy which appears to overwhelm this Government's every action. In the  Age  of 4 March one newspaper columnist describes this philosophy as being based on an idealised society of the past with a market system catered for the requirement of all and the need for government provision was minimal. However the basic flaw of such a philosophy is that in reality only the privileged few can exploit the opportunities, enjoy the freedom and make the choices they cherish. Thus we come to the basic differences in philosophical stance between the Government on the one hand and men and women who support the Labor Party on the other hand. Our Party feels that opportunities open to the privileged few should be open to all. The provision of public goods and the existence of a strong, positive public sector appear to be anathema to the leaders of the Government. When the philosophy upon which the assumptions of the Treasurer are made is translated to a political reality, it involves the decline of the public sector, the decline of that sector which provides those things the market will not provide. I name some of them: Aid to the aged and aid to the sick, the young and the underprivileged. The Government has conducted a campaign of myth and half-truths to convince the Australian people that they are being harmed by the efforts of the public sector to improve the quality of their lives. 
Prior to the last election the electors were presented by the Liberal Party and National Country Party with promises of return to the stable days of the 1950s and 1960s. They painted a picture of communities based on sturdy selfreliance. No attempt was made to explain, as the Treasurer in his statement does not, that changes in the international scene have rendered a return to those years an impossible dream. No attempt was made to explain that sturdy self-reliance also meant standing alone in a complex world which most people do not fully comprehend. The Australian people were misled into voting this coalition into power. They are being misled by the Liberal Party-National Country Party coalition now that it is in power. 
One of the major vehicles the Government has used to confuse and mislead the public has been discussion of the Budget deficit. A campaign was begun by the Treasurer when as  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition he attempted various extrapolations of monthly figures to obtain a value for the deficit for the entire year. That campaign has continued. Simplistic interpretation of what this deficit meant in terms of economic management was made to- confuse the people further. The present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  played his role in this campaign through his use of the analogy between public and private debt- a ruse described in basic public finance texts as being used by unscrupulous politicians to mislead electors. Regrettably I find the right honourable gentleman still persists in the use of such analogies. Bland statements that worldwide recession was somehow caused by all countries running deficit Budgets were presented to the people as absolute fact. No recognition was made of the school of economic thought which suggests that the world-wide recession was caused by the simultaneous slamming on of the brakes by all the major industrial countries reacting to inflationary problems. No admission was made of the possibility that only large government outlays prevented a recession of depressing magnitude when all these countries went through a trade cycle decline simultaneously for the first time since the 1930s. 
In short, no notice is taken of such authorities as  Mr Van  Lennip Secretary-General of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, who is an objective, impartial observer of these events, and of most other important objective observers. Distortions and halftruths put forward as economic truth to validate an ideology, temporarily politically attractive, namely the decision to reduce the role of the public sector, continue to be seen in the Treasurer's statement. I will instance a few examples of how the Treasurer has continued with this ideology. In his statement the Treasurer, after speaking about spending increases and the deficits in 1974-75 and 1975-76, says: 
The results of this abandonment of all sense of budgetary responsibility led, in the ultimate, to a drying up of demand in the private sector and a quite devastating loss of confidence. Consumer spending fell away. Business investment slumped. Production fell. Job opportunities vanished and unemployment soared. 
It is of course entirely false to suppose that the big Budget deficits of 1974-75 and 1975-76 led to slump in demand and output. The economy moved swiftly into recession from about the second quarter of 1974. The movement was well under way by the end of the 1973-74 financial year- a year in which the deficit was a very low $293m. Unemployment rose strongly during 1974, reaching 235 000 seasonally adjusted by December 1974. Consumer spending slumped in the September and December quarters of 1974. The 1974-75 Budget was framed with a modest deficit of about $750m. But in response to the downward movement in the economy a range of stimulatory measures were taken in late 1974 and early 1975. The then Prime Minister's statement on 12 November 1974 announced income tax cuts from 1 January 1975 and cuts in company tax. Special measures were announced at about that time to assist the housing and wool industries. Sales tax on cars was sharply reduced for the early months of 1975, and so on. The big increase in the deficit in 1974-75 arose mainly from these and other responses to a depressed economy; it was not in any sense a cause of the movement into recession. 
I give a second example of distortion in this Minister's statement that we are debating. The Treasurer, continuing his theme, speaks of the large number of wage increases which occurred during 1974-75. He then says: 
As a result of the uncertainty thus created in respect of future prices and incomes, consumers stepped up their savings- the squirrelling phenomenon. 
It is a complete distortion to portray the increase in the savings ratio as something which occurred as a result of the acceleration of wage and price inflation in 1974-75. Recent savings ratio figures are: 

<graphic href="098131197603180_40_4.jpg"></graphic>

The increase in this ratio has clearly been going on for some time, and the increase in the ratio during 1974-75 was smaller than that in the two preceding years- 2 percentage points as against 2.3 per cent and 2.8 per cent. In recent quarters the trend seems to have been reversed. A third example of the distortion is contained in the Treasurer's speech. He ascribes the falling off in business investment to 3 factors: A reduction in expected returns from investment; their increased riskiness and the drying up of internal cash flow. While there is clearly some importance in each of these factors, it is staggering that he leaves out the factor that almost all economists would mention immediately as the main cause, namely the decline in output and the fact that many companies are operating at 15 per cent- 20 cent below capacity. A fourth point is that part of the reason for leaving this factor out seems to be that he wants to portray- he does so elsewhere in his statement- the decline in investment as one of the causes of the slump rather than as largely a response to the slump in output. Recent quarterly seasonally adjusted constant price figures for private business investment, excluding the dwelling sector, from the first of the four quarters in 1973 to the last of the four quarters in 1975, are: 819, 859, 890, 968, 963, 935, 924, 867, 923, 897 and 817. 
The major point is that the first signs of real weakness in these figures is the December quarter of 1974, by which time unemployment was over 200 000, and that, leaving aside the special June figure, the main decline has been in 1 975, particularly in the most recent quarter. The decline in investment cannot be regarded as having caused the level of activity to slump sharply. I repeat: These are distortions. In fact, these serious distortions of recorded facts are deeply disturbing. How can we expect policy to be soundly based if elementary facts are represented in the way that I have outlined? 
To return to the issue of the deficit and the unreasoned approach this Liberal-National Country Party Government has taken to it, let us look at some of the logic employed by the Treasurer to condemn the use of high levels of deficit spending by government to offset the effects of recession. A good example of the prevailing logic comes in the treatment of Keynesianism in the Treasurer's speech. This is introduced on page 10 of the speech. He says:  . . . we hear it argued that that - 
That is a cutback in government spending and the deficit-  . . . will not contribute to economic recovery but on the contrary, will simply serve to depress activity still  further 
This proposition, which seems to be obviously true, is described as- I quote him again'hopelessly outdated'. The only justification the Treasurer offers for this claim consists of 3 international quotations that honourable members will remember. On page 11 of his speech  President  Ford is quoted as saying that accelerating inflation causes increased unemployment. The International Monetary Fund is quoted as saying that any handling of the current recession which added to inflation would be short lived.  Mr Harold  Wilson, the British Prime Minister, is quoted as saying that massive reflation in Britain at present would be inflationary and would lead eventually to further unemployment. None of these quoted remarks bears at all on the proposition that the Treasurer claims is, to quote him, 'hopelessly outdated '-that cutting back on spending and the deficit will further depress activity. This is not surprising, for by page 12 the Treasurer is asserting that it is true that 'looked at purely in a short run context' cutting back on spending and the deficit will depress activity in the government sector and in the private sector as well. This is now asserted by the Treasurer to be a 'cost' which has to be borne if 'big government' is to be eradicated. On page 13 it is a 'hard fact' that the cutting back policy will result in a lower level of economic activity than otherwise might have been the case. We have turned the full circle in 3 pages of the Treasurer's statement. 
On whatever shaky ground the Treasurer's conclusions are based- I have illustrated in detail how shaky is the ground- they have resulted in the misguided package of fiscal and monetary policies implemented by this Government since coming to power. The announced aim of these policies is to transfer resources to the private sector from the public sector and to stimulate private investment. In essence the Government has slashed public sector expenditure and moved to limit the growth of the money supply. Obviously the Australian Labor Party, realising the role public expenditure must play in taking up the slack left by the private sector in times of recession, rejects out of hand the need for arbitrary cuts. The 1975-76 Budget slowed the growth of public expenditure and prepared us for a time of consolidation, but the amounts of public spending in that Budget were necessary if economic revival was to take place. 
The time is now ripe to examine the effects that the announced government spending cuts will have. The leaders of the Government speak with pride of managing a $300m cut in public expenditure for the rest of the financial year. They have never given full details of that $300m, but let us assume that there is a cut of that magnitude. The fact that this saving will be made at the expense of pensioners, children and the sick is blithely ignored. But even in the Government's talk of the cuts there is evidence of equivocation. The  Sydney Morning Herald  of Monday, 15 March, in questioning the Prime Minister's extrapolation of these savings over a full year as $ 1 ,000m, used the following words: 
This is nonsense, as even a cursory examination of the cuts demonstrates. 
Let us examine in detail some of these so-called totally necessary cuts. Nowhere is the overriding influence of the Government's ideological preoccupations more manifest than in its attitude to foreign aid. This country has a very favourable balance of payments situation, yet cuts are made in amounts .of money spent overseas. The effect of cuts in foreign aid on the level of domestic expenditure will be totally insignificant, but the effects on the lives of those who were to be the recipients of this aid will be catastrophic. This Government has thought totally in terms of ideology to the effect that the public sector must be cut back. No thought has gone into the effects these cuts have on people. The totally arbitrary nature of this Government's approach to cutting back public expenditure should be condemned even by those who misguidedly feel that this is the time for restraint and cut-backs. It is all so unnecessary and unjust. 
On the domestic front, pensioners will suffer from delays in pension rises and from the abolition of funeral payments; the sick no doubt will suffer the prospect of paying extra for medicine. But the assault does not end there. Young children will suffer from cut-backs in the Children's Commission programs, and so will the parents who needed those childhood services desperatelyparents who can least afford to do without such services. The total misunderstanding which the leaders of this Government have of the links between the private and public sectors becomes tragically evident when examining cuts announced in Public Service construction contracts. A large section of the construction segment of the private sector is dependent on government work. No other building demand is likely to increase in the foreseeable future. The monetary policies of this Government have virtually ensured that. These decisions must lead to vastly increased unemployment. 
A lot of noise has been made about this Government's determination to improve efficiency in the public sector. It has instituted a special committee to make recommendations on this subject. One of the directives given to this committee is that it look at ways of returning administrative functions to the States where appropriate. One can readily understand the difficult decisions that face the  chairman  of this committee as he attempts to justify giving additional responsibilities to State government bureaucracies, one of which he found not so long ago was incapable of performing the functions it was already required to perform. I refer to  Sir Henry  Bland's examination of the Victorian State public sector. Further to this point, it appears difficult to follow the Government's rationale in advocating power transfer from the Australian Government to the State governments as a means of reducing the level of bureaucratic control over the lives of individuals. As has been pointed out by my colleague, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  this power juggle does nothing to reduce overall restraints on personal liberty. A far better method of increasing individual participation in the community would be via the Labor Government's community welfare centre program- the Australian Assistance Plan. That program contained 2 necessary facets of community welfaregovernment guaranteed services and local decision-making. I spoke at greater length on this subject when debating the Financial Agreement Bill 1976 2 days ago. 
Continuing with this theme of the impact of the Government cut-backs on individual members of society, I bring to the attention of the House the stupidity of arbitrary cut-backs as a method of increasing efficiency. I do not rely j just on my judgment. I may be biased. Let me draw attention to the editorial in the  Canberra Times  of Thursday, 12 March. While admitting the slight hope that cut-backs and sackings may, to quote the editorial, 'indeed stimulate greater efforts by those remaining'- a proposition which I would see as questionable- the editorial points out that 'on the other hand the effects on morale may prove counter-productive'. This latter alternative appears to be what is happening. Times for the supply of new and transferred telephones and for the processing of passports, to mention just 2 matters, have lengthened considerably since the announcement of the Government's arbitrary cuts. These things are not significant in themselves, but are symptomatic of the misplaced thinking of this Government and the emphasis on ideologies and slogans to the detriment of the needs of people. The Labor Party in no way subscribes to the view that the Public Service is perfectly efficient. Our establishment of the Royal Commission into Australian Government Administration while in government attests to that. However, we believe that the problems of the Public Service derive not from the fact that it is public but from the fact that it is, and by function must be, a large organisation. With the Royal Commission due to report in April of this year, surely that would have been the time for any re-evaluation. 
One of the sadder aspects of this Government's attitude to expenditure programs has been the way it has moved to reward its own sectional supporters for previous service in giving their votes. The phosphate bounty stands out as an example of this, as does the investment allowance. The amount of money spent on the phosphate bounty would be applauded if it were used for disadvantaged farmers, but this Government has given the most to those who least need it. 
-The bounty has been restored under the pretext that it is an incentive to encourage the use of fertiliser and hence to increase production. The New Zealand experience and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics submission to the Industries Assistance Commission suggest that the bounty will never achieve this end. Why do not members of the National Country Party, who are so clever in their interjections- I use the word 'clever' in a cynical sense- stand up and demand that this money be allocated to those who really need it? 
As I have indicated, another clear example of the Government's cynicism about spending cuts is the investment allowance. This policy, we presume, is the positive implementation of the Government's declared desire to redirect resources from the public to the private sector. It is a handout of the revenue forsaken variety, a measure to foreshadow what the Treasurer once described as an investment-led recovery. Thankfully in his recent statement we are debating here the Treasurer has lessened the intensity of his search for such a creature. The patent absurdity of using such a measure to evoke recovery is highlighted in the latest Quarterly Survey of Manufacturing Industry released by the Department of Industry and Commerce a couple of days ago, in which it is stated: 
The low level of new capital expenditure has been a feature of these surveys for two years. A continuance of this situation is consistent, however, with a low level of capacity utilization and overtime worked. It is reasonable to suggest that new capital expenditure will only respond to a significant and sustained increase in demand. 
The Labor Opposition contends that random government expenditure cuts, increases in interest rates, cries of doom from the Treasurer and his Prime Minister and a policy of deliberately created unemployment will not lead to this increase in demand. 
This Government's plans for industry do not appear to contain programs to cope with the major problems identified in the Jackson Report. In fact,  Mr Gordon  Jackson at the recent Metal Trades Industry Association seminar identified symptoms of the deep-rooted malaise of Australian manufacturing industry as being the problems of people-the problems which 
Galbraith identified as arising from public poverty. This Government's policies of running down public services will only exacerbate the problems. 
I have dealt at some length with the illfounded fiscal policies and now turn my attention to their monetary measures. These monetary policies of this Government, unless quickly modified, seem certain to deny the Australian people the solid, if slow and steady, economic recovery that the last Labor Budget planned to give them. As pointed out earlier in this speech, the strategy of the 1975-76 budget was to include measures opening the way for lower interest rates in 1976. On 22 January the Government announced a number of monetary measures. At first glance these appeared consistent with the strategy of the Labor Budget with drops in the overdraft interest rate and yields on Treasury notes. However, the accompanying measures, the launching of the Australian Government Savings Bond at 10.5 per cent and the raising of the LGS ratio from 18 per cent to 23 per cent, have effectively prevented this drop in interest rates and indeed brought us to the brink of severe tightening of credit- a credit squeeze. The Treasurer has sought to deny this and presents 3 points in support of his contention. Firstly, bank lending is continuing at virtually unchanged levels; secondly, their expectation is for an 1 1 per cent to 13 per cent growth in M3 in the first half of 1976; and thirdly the Government will ensure that the system has sufficient finances in the seasonal period. 
Let me deal with these 3 points. The first of these points is irrelevant, given that these things take time to develop. The assurance in the third is welcome, but does not remove the fear that the Government has misjudged the situation. I suggest that today's news in Queensland is another example of how the Government may have misjudged this situation, although I am quick to point out that I realise that the particular trouble is administration in Queensland building societies. This makes the second the crucial point. It is widely agreed that in seasonally adjusted terms, M3 is likely to decline in February- the trading bank figures, about half of M3, released last Tuesday, show a sharp fall in February, a month in which there is normally a rise- and to increase only moderately in March so that in the 3 months to March, M3 will show little or no growth in adjusted terms. So the Treasurer's figure of 12 per cent implies an annual growth rate of M3 of 20 per cent to 25 per cent in the final quarter of 1975-76. While the outcome depends on such factors as the first Budget deficit and balance of payment figures, it is a brave man who would forecast such a rapid resurgency as the Treasurer has forecast. It would appear now that the first half of 1 976 will see M3 growth at an annual rate of about 8 per cent and with inflation continuing at about IS per cent this implies a significant tightening of financial conditions throughout the economy. 
The impact of the Treasurer's misjudgment renders artificial the Prime Minister's recent reply to a question in this House on interest rates when he explained how his Government has led the way for a fall in interest rates. The recent dramatic fall in bank advances emphasizes the fact that artificially low interest rates are useless in a time of Government attempts to severely tighten liquidity. I and other Opposition speakers pointed out during a recent urgency debate on the economy that all the measures taken by this Government have imperilled- severely jeopardisedthe recovery planned in the 1975-76 Budget, which plans were seen to be working in spite of the hampering of the constitutional crisis. If there was some point to it, the hardship these measures will cause- indeed, are causing- would possibly be acceptable to some people. But there is no point to it. 
The Treasurer continually asserts that the control of inflation is his central concern, and that this is necessary for a soundly based recovery. But nowhere does he spell out what his policy is for reducing inflation. His remarks about the recovery are sometimes unencouraging. At page 2 1 of his ministerial statement he said: 
Hopefully- though less so now in the light of the recent decision in the national wage case- there will be some recovery in demand, production and employment in 1 976. 
Even these remarks are contingent on- and this again is set out on page 2 1 of his speech: ... a continuing and discernible moderation in the rate of wage and price increase during that time. 
But on page 24 we find that the Treasurer said: 
There is now a very real danger that 1976 may see a further entrenchment of wage/cost pressures as a result of the 6.4 per cent increase. 
Yet we find that the Treasurer on page 23 said: 
The Government has not yet determined, in detail, the approach it will take on future occasions in the wage-fixing area. 
The chances that the Liberal-National Country Party Government will be able to gain the support of the unions for wage restraint have been almost irrevocably impaired because of its deceit and stupidity at the last national wage case. This is an example of another election promise which the Fraser Government found it impractical to keep; without any perceptible twinge of conscience, the promise was broken. The wage and salary earners of this country, under the influence of the Labor Government, who backed the indexation process by their restraint, had already begun playing their part in the economic revival. In the calendar year 1975 real wages actually fell; average weekly earnings rose by 12.5 per cent while prices as measured by the consumer price index rose 14 per cent; 1975 was the only year since the Second World War, apart from 1956, in which wages rose less than prices. That shows just how the wage and salary earners had played their part. In view of the hostile environment being created by this Government it is folly to expect wage and salary earners to continue to co-operate in this way although the country desperately needs their co-operation. 
Moves by this Government to trifle with indexation through a one-way manipulation of the CPI will further break down the tenuous relationship between employee organisations and government. The Prime Minister will find to his cost, as did a Conservative Prime Minister in Great Britain, that the voters will not permit unbridled and unnecessary attacks upon the union. 
In conclusion I state that the Treasurer has throughout his statement stressed the central nature of the problem of inflation, but the statement contains no strategy to defeat it. He admits, in passages quoted earlier, that reducing the deficit and the growth of the money measures supply will not only curb inflation, for given all these measures, he is still worried about 'a further entrenchment of wage-cost pressures in 1976'. In fact inflation at more than 13 per cent now seems likely in 1976 and he proposes no measures to avoid such a development, and the Government is proposing no viable counter measure. With the Treasurer himself admitting the possibility of no recovery in 1976 the outlook is, to use his own words, sombre. 
The Opposition does not pretend that the answers to the problems confronting us are simple. But the Labor Party rejects out of hand the outdated 'Scrooge-suffer-mentality which appears to beset the Government's thinking. The prospect of many ordinary people being substantially disadvantaged on the off chance that the Government's measures will in a magical way cure the economy of its ills, is not a pleasant one. I would stress again that the Government is unwilling or unable to inform this Parliament as to how the measures it has taken will bring about a soundly-based recovery based on controlling inflation. This statement leaves us in the dark. 
In short, if the Government revoked all policy decisions it has made since coming into office and allowed the policies of the last Labor Budget to run their course, with some inevitable adjustments to the money supply in the light of unfolding events, the Australian people could yet enjoy the fruits of the worldwide recovery which threatens to escape them or at least threatens to be postponed. If the Government could remove itself from its ideological straitjacket, the prospects for the Australian economy would be vastly improved. 
-Usually the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  presents a great number of points of substance in his speech and thus allows the member who follows him in debate to take up some time replying to him. My analysis of his speech on this occasion suggests that he spent most of his time on an incorrect analysis of the lending institutions in New South Wales. I draw to his attention the fact that the Commonwealth Bank, as far as I am aware, expends the same proportion of its deposits received from New South Wales residents on housing lending as it does in the other States. If one accepts that fact, it makes nonsense of one of the points on which the honourable member for Mackellar spent much time. 
I believe it can be checked. This point has arisen in this House on a previous occasion. My memory is almost as good as that of the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon),  and I can remember the point being well answered previously. 
Similarly, I draw to the attention of the honourable member for Mackellar the fact that although there may not be a separate State savings bank in New South Wales deposits are going into existing institutions. One of the series of institutions into which those deposits are going is the terminating building societies. I am reminded by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  that 60 per cent of funds going into terminating building societies in New South Wales are going into housing. So what one loses on the swings one gains on the roundabouts. I believe that the analysis of the honourable member for Mackellar does not stand up well. Of course, his main thesis is correct when he says that the Government, which I hope he is supporting only temporarily at the moment, is in an ideological straitjacket about the deficit. It is about this that I will be making my main contribution to this debate. The sooner that straitjacket is cast off and the sooner more funds are made available in an area such as housing, where there is an underemployment of men and resources, the better will the needs of the Australian people be satisfied. 
There is no subject which has a greater impact on the quality of life of an Australian citizen and the citizens we represent than housing. From the representations I receive in my electorate office- it is a busy electorate office in a capital city, an urban electorate office- there is no area of activity where the needs are greater and the heartbreaks more severe than housing. I mention quickly in passing that this is so in my electorate office in Adelaide in spite of 2 important qualifying factors about Adelaide. One is that housing is mainly a State responsibility. When it comes to the needs of individual people, it is a State Government Department or a State statutory authority which has the prime responsibility. In other words, if desperate people wish to seek the help of their parliamentarian, they should and most often do, initially go to their State member, not their Federal member. But in spite of this, most of the time we find in my electorate office housing is near the top of the list, if not at the top of the list, when we examine the statistics of people 's needs as measured by their contact with my office. 
I mentioned earlier that there is a second qualifying factor and that is that in my State of South Australia it is my belief that we have the best housing administration of any State in Australia. The waiting lists for houses are far shorter than elsewhere. The costs of land and of building are lower. More people are being housed adequately. Indeed more people are being housed in a higher standard of housing than in any other State in Australia. In spite of this, I use the experience of my own electorate office- indeed I use the results of my reading too- to lead me to the conclusion that housing is a priority subject for attention by this Australian Parliament. 
The Bill we are debating today, the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill 1976, devotes attention to just one aspect of housing, namely what we call 'welfare housing'. Of course we in the Labor Opposition cannot oppose the Bill which is based on our own Budget decision. But as the House has already learned from my colleagues, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid, and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  both of whom had extensive experience in the housing sphere as Ministers in the last Labor Government, the amount appropriated for housing in that Labor Budget and in this Bill was only a second instalment. Inevitably there was more to come. It is not sufficient nor good enough to say that the amount is less than that appropriated in the previous financial year. There was a large additional amount appropriated at the end of the previous financial year to be spent in the current financial year, which helps explain the difference between the totals for the 2 financial years. In addition to that, this amount appropriated was not in any way considered to be a final amount. Just as there had been an additional amount appropriated in the previous financial year, as I have just mentioned, so there would have been an additional amount appropriated in this financial year provided that there was capacity for the industry to use the funds. Nowhere is it clearer than in the building industry that it is useless pumping more funds into the industry than there are men and women and materials to use those funds. Pumping in more funds when there is a shortage of trained building operatives, a shortage of bricks or timber or a shortage of any other vital ingredient for the building industry does no more than push up the costs and the prices in that industry. The supply of funds outstrips the demand for them. The result is raging demand inflation. 
So this was an important determining factor when the hard decisions were made by the Labor Government in the last Budget about the sums of money to be available for welfare housing in this Bill. I must emphasise again that this amount was only a second instalment. As I said earlier, the first instalment was the instalment made at the end of the previous financial year. Let me lead on from this to say unequivocally that if Labor were in power and the same economic conditions prevailed as they do today, a third instalment of funds for the welfare housing field would be in the pipeline right now. I challenge the Government to match that claim. Liberal Party and National Country Party members of this Parliament know that housing needs are enormous. They know that there are surplus materials available right now. They know that there are building workers looking for jobs today. Are Government supporters prepared to come out and say that more funds for housing will be made available this financial year- soon, urgently- to take up the slack? 
The honourable member for Petrie says: 'What about the deficit?' This is completely falling into the ideological straitjacket. The suggestion implicit in the honourable member's question is refuted by the honourable member's own colleague, the honourable member for Mackellar. It is a ridiculous straitjacket. While there are materials available and while there are men unemployed, there is no need to worship any deficit. I venture to say that honourable members opposite will not be prepared to make this essential promise. The reason for this is that they have got themselves into this straitjacket which I have just mentioned to the honourable member for Petrie. They are ignoring all the lessons of history. They are ignoring all the best economic advice. They are allowing unemployment of men and women to continue. In fact, by their policies, they are deliberately creating additional unemployment. They are allowing under-employment of resources, in this instance, building resources, to continue. All of this is because of a grossly misguided fixation about the Budget deficit. The Government's policies are wrong. The hardship it is creating by these wrong policies are totally unnecessary. 
Also in this context I am bound to make another valid point. I believe that if Labor were in power today, the number of building operatives unemployed and the availability of building materials would be less. In this first 100 days of a Liberal-National Country Party Government, we have seen an economic policy which is causing an increase in the rate of interest, which is causing a decline in the availability of funds and which is postponing a satisfactory return of business confidence. Certainly I believe that economic conditions will be improved later this year, but that will be nothing to do with this Government's policies. On the contrary, the slow return to a higher level of economic activity will be the result of world economic conditions. A marked improvement is already evident in the United States of America. There are high hopes that Japan and West Germany and other developed countries will catch the wave. The grave danger is that our country will miss the wave of confidence because of the policies perpetrated by this Liberal-National Country Party Governmentthe credit squeeze, the cutting of Government expenditure, the scrooge-like attitudes and noises made on the need for belt tightening, the general pessimism permeating government circles which is hitting adversely the return of consumer confidence and thus the return of business confidence. These are disastrous policies. They are having the effect of postponing, as I have said already, the return of economic prosperity. 
So the valid point is this: If Labor were in power there would have been a third instalment of funds for welfare housing, but that instalment would have been less than is necessary under this Liberal-National Country Party Government right now. Because the economy under Labor by now would be at a higher level of activity, there would not have been the pessimistic noises - 
Do I have to repeat myself? There would not have been the pessimistic noises emanating from government. There would not have been the developing credit squeeze, if I need to repeat myself again. There would not have been the higher interest rates. There would not have been so many building workers out of employment right now. There would not have been the great availability of building supplies which exists right now. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! I remind the honourable member for Petrie that interjections are out of order. 
I have to repeat myself because I see that my remarks have not sunk in to the honourable member for Petrie. Under Labor, the amount of the third instalment for welfare housing would not have needed to be so great as it is today. But there would have been that third instalment. The tragedy is that there is no such prospect for a third instalment for welfare housing from the Liberal and National Country parties. Having said that, let me own up that whatever vastly improved actions would have been taken by a Labor government would have been insufficient. Our plans for tackling the vast problems in the creation of adequate housing were only at their infant stages. We created the Australian Housing Corporation. This would have helped, particularly with the provision of funds for the deposit gap for those wishing to buy their own homes. This applies to the vast majority of Australians. It is a tragedy that this innovation has been postponed until Labor's return to power. 
We created the Indicative Planning Council. This body has only recently published its first report- an interim one. Its recommendations would have received far more response from an innovative Labor Government which would recognise the need for positive action in the public sphere than will be the case under the present 
Liberal-National Country Party Government. So many of the needs in housing are on the supply side. The building industry must be planned in such a way that it operates more evenly. The peaks and troughs in its level of activity are a tragedy for the nation as well as for those 'who work in the building industry. There must be more planning for an 'even' approach.  This  inevitably means more Government intervention at the planning stage to bring order where there is disorder today. But because the total needs are so great, the average level of activity must also be at a higher level than it has been hitherto. 
We need more building resources. We need more building operatives. Here another Labor innovation- the national employment and training scheme- must be involved to play a larger role in ensuring that there are more building operatives when we get back to a higher level of economic activity. I am now devoting attention to the total housing sector, the private as well as the public sector. This is necessary when we realise what a small proportion of needs are satisfied by the public sector, by the funds for instance being made available through this Bill. I understand that only about 5 per cent of the housing needs of  Australians  are satisfied through welfare housing Bills. More and more of our people are turning to this welfare housing sector as the access point to housing mortgage loan funds moves up the income scale. Welfare housing will never satisfy the existing demands, leave alone satisfy new demands. 
The urgency of these needs was highlighted last month in the publication of a report by the Australian Institute of Urban Studies. I believe that this Institute's recommendations bear very close study. The report rejected emphasis on improving people's incomes in favour of directly helping to stimulate the supply side of the equation. This valuable body outside government in the private sector recommended changes to depreciation allowances in taxation legislation to encourage the provision of rental accomodation. It recommended subsidies of a particular kind to people about to buy a house; not subsidies of a general kind, subsidies of a particular kind. Subsidies of a general kind such as the homes savings grant proposed by the Liberal-National Country Party Government were rejected by the Institute of Urban Studies. It recommended the provision of new forms of loans such as indexed mortgages or deferred pre-payment mortgages as options for home buyers. Above all, it recommended a co-ordinated housing policy for the whole country. In other words it recommended, in contradistinction to the policies of this 
Government, more intervention not less on the part of the Australian Parliament in this important sphere, in these areas of great need. 
This is what the Australian Labor Government was beginning to do. It highlights our attitudes to these Australian Government- State government relationships, co-operative federalism. The existence of a great area of need like this means that we must fulfil those needs. We must sit down with the State administration to co-ordinate and to stimulate the tackling of the problems. This is not a policy of withdrawal but one of active participation to help those people in need. We detect from this Government that its is a policy of withdrawal instead of moving in and sitting down with State administrations to tackle problems such as this one. 
One of the results of such a co-operative federalism attitude could be making better use of existing State statutory corporations, or indeed if necessary, creating new statutory corporations to compete with the private sector. The needs are enormous. There is no better way to improve the way of life of those we represent, as I said earlier, than to improve their housing, than to seek to fulfil the needs in this housing area, to improve the housing of Australian people generally. Existing institutions, existing companies and the existing fragmented conglomeration of small builders are playing some valuable part but in toto they are not fulfilling the total needs. How about the Housing Trust of South Australia, a splendid statutory corporation being given the opportunity to enter the capital market, as does, for instance, the Electricity Trust of South Australia, to raise some of its own loan funds in order to build more houses- more houses which I have indicated are so drastically needed? It would have to set about this in a businesslike way. Because it may be able to borrow funds at a cheaper rate of interest than can the private sector and because also it may be able to be exempt from income tax, it should be able to build housing more cheaply than can the private sector. Because of these advantages it should, via a means test, satisfy that section of the market which cannot now afford the private sector housing. Therefore it would not reduce the demand for private sector housing. Certainly I believe this proposition ought to be considered. I know that it would mean an alteration to the Financial Agreement Act between the Australian Government and the State Government. But let us see the reasons, if there are any, why this should not be done. 
Another point that I should like to make is that at the moment welfare housing, in such short supply, is going to a lot of people who do not need it. Perhaps rents should be related to incomes coming into households. I do not have time to develop that argument. In conclusion, I should like to say again that the housing area is one of urgent need. I am glad to see some funds being made available through this Bill. But it is a drop in the ocean. More is needed. Innovations are needed. Unfortunately at present we do not have the Government to fulfil those needs. Nevertheless, I support this Bill for the good reason that it was part of Labor Government policy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Did the Prime Minister in his electoral talk last weekend refer again to the possibility of introducing tax indexation? Docs he agree that the technical means of introducing tax indexation are not in any way difficult- the sums could be done on a pocket calculator? If so, why is he hedging on this issue? When will he say definitely whether tax indexation will be introduced or whether another election promise will be broken? 
-by leave-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  the Opposition has not asked that this statement be noted with a view to a later debate, because there will be an opportunity to debate the subject when the necessary amendments to the Income Tax Act come before the 
House. However, as with the earlier statement on foreign investment in Australia, the Australian Parliamentary Labor Party does want a debate on the subject. I understand that the Government has arranged for this to take place next Thursday. Frankly, I would have liked to say a few words about foreign investment today and then to continue my remarks on Thursday next. But, for some reason best known to the Government, I was told by those who have the numbers in this House that that was not to be allowed. So, I have been forced not to use the forms of the House to speak on foreign investment today but instead to issue a Press release, which I am in the course of doing right now, pointing out some of the retrograde steps in the statement on foreign investment. 
Returning to this statement dealing with the 40 per cent investment allowance, let me say firstly that it is most appropriate that it has been made to the House today, April Fools Day. This 40 per cent investment allowance is a clear example of a political party- or, in this case, 2 parties, the Liberal Party and the National Country Party- promising something foolish in an election campaign with the result that we now have the measure hanging around our necks like an albatross. This is the fourth statement on the subject and the details in my view are still as clear as mud. In fact, the whole subject is becoming more blurred with each statement. I say to Government members who are trying to interject that they have not had the opportunity to read the statement in detail as I have. Incidentally, for the sake of those scholars of this fascinating saga, I point out that the first statement was made on 22 December 1975, the second statement on 26 January 1976 and the third statement on 25 February 1976. Now the fourth statement has been made today. Still, I believe the details are unclear. I will come to that aspect in a moment. 
Let me make the point that an economic recovery in Australia will come not from an investment led stimulus, from a measure such as this investment allowance, but from a return of consumer confidence. So, I am less than enthusiastic about this allowance, quite apart from the difficulties in implementing the allowance as we have seen from this statement today. But do not take just my word for that. Let me return to one of the Government's own reports. I am referring to the  Quarterly Survey of Manufacturing Industry,  a publication issued by the Department of Industry and Commerce. I read from the Melbourne  Age  of 16 March 1 975: 
The department said: 'The low level of new capital expenditure has been a feature of these surveys for 2 years '. 
We all concede that fact. The article continues: 'A continuance of this situation is consistent, however, with a low level capacity utilisation and overtime worked. ' 
In other words, capacity is there. I read on from the report: 'It is reasonable to suggest that new capital expenditure will only respond to a significant and sustained increase in demand,' the department said. 
I emphasise that that is what the Government's own Department of Industry and Commerce has said. Kenneth Davidson, the economic journalist went on to say in the report from which I am reading: 
This view cuts across the line taken by the Government during the election, that economic recovery could and should be 'investment led'. 
It goes further than that. It cuts across the line that the Government is instituting or attempting to institute in a measure such as this one. I also point out that this investment allowance, although it will achieve precious little in getting any economic recovery moving, at the same time will have at least 3 serious adverse effects. The first adverse effect is that there will be an enormous erosion of the tax base. I believe, although we have not had final statistics or even estimates on this, that the erosion will be to the extent of at least a net $75 m in a full financial year. If my statistics are wrong I will thank the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  for the courtesy of informing me, as he has done on a previous occasion. Let me hasten to say that on the previous occasion I was not wrong but he quickly answered in written form a question from me. From what I understand this will cost $150m in a full financial year. Offset against that is about $7 5m owing to the doing away with the double tax deduction. There would be a net cost of $75m. This is a measure brought in by a government which is cutting government spending at the expense of people who will pay more for pharmaceutical prescriptions and people whose pension increases are being delayed, and so on. That is a real adverse effect. 
With so much less tax coming into the Treasury because of this measure so much more will have to come from elsewhere or so much less will be spent. I drive this home by quoting the words of Professor Russell Mathews, the  Chairman  of the famed Mathews Committee on the subject of this allowance. I am now taking his words from an address to the Metal Industries Association on 20 February. He said: 
My reasons for disquiet on the business tax side stem from the Government's decision to introduce generous investment allowances as an additional taxation concession to business. The Committee concluded that investment and accelerated  depreciation allowances were unsatisfactory means of countering the effects of inflation on business taxation. To the extent that these other concessions reduce revenue yields, the scope for the proposed valuation adjustments must be reduced. They are essentially policy alternatives and I believe that it is undesirable to provide investment allowances on a continuing basis at the same time as a major change is being made to a new basis of business taxation. 
Among other things, some of the better thought through recommendations of the Mathews Committee are now put in jeopardy, I believe, by this measure. 
The second adverse effect- tremendously adverse- will come when the economic recovery gets under way. This recovery is being jeopardised by such Government policies as higher interest rates. We only have to look at tonight's Melbourne  Herald  to see the headline: 'Interest on Home Loans Up: Society Sets the Lead '. That is today's news. By policies of deliberately creating unemployment and deliberately cutting Government expenditure at this time the Government is killing our chances of economic recovery or, at least, postponing our chances of economic recovery. But assuming that recovery will eventually come because of the world recovery, this measure is a dangerous one. When that recovery does come we must be very careful that we do not ricochet back into an inflationary situation. Bringing this measure into existence at a time when investment should be dampened down- and that time will come- is a retrograde step. This investment allowance will last for a number of years. It is not something which will be taken off too easily. So even if it were justifiable now I believe it is not justifiable as a long term measure. 
The third adverse effect is that the allowance could stimulate investments in an area where there will be, even in good times, an overcapacity. The cement industry is a clear case in point. This was pointed out in the  Australian Financial Review  only recently. Two separate companies can use what I call the false benefits available under this measure to invest simultaneously in greater capacity and when the new capacity of the 2 companies comes on stream and is added together then we will have an overcapacity in that industry. In other words there is a misallocation of resources brought about directly by this measure. I come back to my main criticism, the shockingly confused way in which this 40 per cent investment allowance has been notified to the people of Australia, firstly on 22 December and then on 26 January. At that stage some thought they would qualify for it. Later on 25 February they learned that they would not qualify for it. Admittedly in this statement the 
Treasurer has been helpful to those who have lease agreements. At least to that extent I welcome the statement. However, the whole picture is a confused one because the measure was illconceived and was brought in as an election promise far too hastily. Now one has to sit down with one's lessor and the Taxation Office to learn whether one qualifies for this allowance. 
I repeat that this is another illustration of how much better off we would be if the Liberal and Country Parties had not been so hungry for power, had not forced the  coup d'etat  on 11 November, had not thought that they were born to rule and had not quickly grabbed for power. They bought votes with this measure, promising it far too hastily, and now we will all lament. 
-The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  demonstrated in his statement of 1 April on foreign investment that at least in their attitude to foreign investment the Liberal and National Country Parties have come some way since the dark days prior to 1972. It is pleasing to note that in form, if not in intention, the present Government's policy has acknowledged the position of responsibility in this field taken by the Australian Labor Government. Most of our clothes have been taken over and are being worn second hand. However the position has not been reached where we could be said to have arrived at a bi-partisan attitude towards foreign investment in Australia. In fact wide gulfs still separate the Opposition and the Government in some vital aspects of this subject. Let me, before exploring these differences in depth, comment on specific parts of the Treasurer's statement. 
At the beginning of his statement the Treasurer ascribes the cause for the fall in the total inflow of foreign capital during the years 1972-75 to 'confusion in the minds of investors about the circumstances in which they could operate in Australia'. This is another example of the simplistic explanations this Government has for the problems which have confronted this country, and indeed the rest of the industrialised world, in recent years. It rivals, for lack of understanding and of depth of analysis, the Government's diagnosis that Budget deficits are the cause of our joint problems of inflation and recession. We heard this thesis repeated in question time today in an attack on me in answer to a question by the Treasurer. I stand, incidentally, by every word I have said on this subject of deficits. It seems that this Government is now becoming worried at its absurd attitudes to the deficit in a time of unemployment. 
Let us examine some of the real reasons for the decline in the flow of foreign capital in recent years, if only in order to allow future debate on this important topic to take place on a more informed level. The Treasurer, in his talk on foreign private capital, has made no attempt to differentiate between various types of private capital. He gives the impression that all private capital entering this country, especially prior to 1972, was of a stable variety having as its object investment in the establishment of productive, profitable enterprises in our country. But this was not so. As well as stable capital there was also that which has been roughly branded as hot money, namely less stable capital looking for quick returns in the stock and share market, in real estate or in other booming sectors. A substantial portion of this type of capital obviously would have entered the country with the express purpose of gaining from inevitable exchange rate changes. The rest of the world, and most of Australia, had known for many years that the Country Party tail wagging the Liberal Party dog had ensured that Australia's currency had been drastically undervalued. Many empty high rise city office block constructions stood as massive and mute reminders of this flow of hot capital and of the Liberal-Country Party Government's misguided policies prior to that Government losing office in 1 972. The high rate of this short term capital inflow resulted in intense speculation in real estate and the resultant price spirals in that sector of our economy. 
Obviously, when the Labor Party took office in 1972, the need for a realistic realignment of the Australian dollar had become of paramount importance, both in terms of diplomatic pressures from our major trading partners and cost pressures on the import consuming sectors of the domestic economy. The Labor Government took a responsible attitude to the problem and realigned the currency to a realistic level with revaluations in December 1972 and September 1973. The speculators by this time had got what they wanted- a 12 per cent gain on the exchange rates, high rates of interest on funds lent to Australian businesses and, in some cases, vast capital gains from rises in property values. Having thus reaped their harvest they moved out to the next profitable pasture. Could this not to a large measure explain the fall in the inflow of foreign capital after 1972 rather than the petty political, posturing explanations of the Treasurer in the statement we are debating this afternoon? Of course the explanation I have outlined is the real explanation. 
I bring these points before the House not as mere elements of debate but rather as a reminder that the topic of foreign investment is complex and the nature of various types of foreign capital is but one of these complexities. The simplistic view presented by the Treasurer in his statement as to the cause of recent falls in capital inflow must not be allowed to cloud the real issues in the continuing debate on this topic of foreign investment in our country. 
I will now move on to actual policy implications of the Treasurer's statement which we of the Opposition find of concern. On page 7 of the Treasurer's statement he informs us that the Government's guidelines 'will place major emphasis on Australian participation in new projects but without preventing projects that are clearly not against the national interest from proceeding'. I must admit that I would have found this assurance much more comforting if the projects not prevented from proceeding were clearly in the national interest rather than ones merely not against the national interest. This then is the crux of the Government's policy, the point from which we are to judge what the practical implications of the Government's form of words will be. It is no wonder that concern has been expressed by many who, like the Australian Labor Government, were perturbed by the extent of foreign domination of the Australian economy under the pre- 1972 Liberal-Country Party regime. The Treasurer's words have all the appearance of setting the scene for an obvious out. 
This Government, when previously in power, had hardly demonstrated a concern for a maximisation of Australian participation in new development projects. The consequences of the folly of its complete  laissez  -faire  approach I have outlined earlier. The Australian people have no decent track record upon which to judge this Government kindly. They have no reasons to assume the ideals spelt out by the Treasurer's words will be adhered to in practice. Is there any reason to assume that in the cold real world of intense special interest lobbying this promise of the Government will not go the way of many election promises it has been found inconvenient to keep? The list of broken election promises grows each day, each week in this Parliament. 
This Government's very preoccupation with the removal of substantial public sector involvement in the development of the resources of this country will only compound the problems it will have in adhering to its announced principles. While these guidelines, if adhered to, represent in many respects a reasonable approach to the problem of foreign equity in Australian projects- the uranium guidelines are excepted in that wide statement I have just made- the major working problem which will actually confront any new development project has virtually been ignored. It is covered in one page of the 22-page document that the Treasurer issued. This problem is that of raising a sufficient amount of domestic capital to allow new projects to go ahead and to conform with the guidelines. In, as the Treasurer would put it, the totality of the Australian Labor Government's approach to problems of developing Australia's vast natural resources, due recognition was made of the problems of raising domestic capital on the scale required. The Labor Government did not turn its back on a government's responsibility in this regard. It envisaged a wide role for such instruments as the ill-fated, as it happened, National Investment Fund and, indeed, the Australian Industry Development Corporation in arranging government-backed capital raisings and a direct role for government in uranium production. 
The present Government, however, has moved to restrict severely the role of government in developing Australia, yet it has failed to suggest a viable alternative source of development funding. It would appear clear that the Australian private capital market is capable of providing capital for but a small number of presently planned projects to go ahead under these guidelines. This fact has been alluded to by many people recently, including the  President  of the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association in his address to that body's recent annual conference. 
The Government must make its position clear. Will the failure of the Australian capital market to marshal the necessary funds required for a new project to go ahead on a 50-50 basis simply constitute a case for bypassing the guidelines? If this is so, are these guidelines, therefore, under the Liberal-National Country Party Government, little more than a public relations exercise? The Treasurer really has a lot further to go than this statement in persuading us that he and the Government of which he is a member have a clear, comprehensive and workable policy on foreign investment which will ensure that Australian resources are not owned markedly overseas and we are not dancing to too great an extent to someone else 's tune. 
While on this specific subject of capital provision I raise another point which requires further clarification by the Government. Surely there is nothing to stop overseas companies already established in Australia and with projects in the early planning stage for which the guidelines would require 50 per cent Australian equity being allowed to issue shares at market value to fulfil requirements. In many cases this will of course disadvantage the local investor and bring a cheap capital source to the overseas company. This is not a satisfactory situation. Surely it is not beyond the wit of government to find a solution to this problem. This is just another example of the questions the Treasurer's statement does not answer. It does not provide information concerning the real issues confronting foreign investment in Australia. The Government must turn its energies towards policies which provide Australian capital or its guidelines will be rendered nothing but empty words. 
As far as the technical aspects of the guidelines are concerned, the Australian Labor Party of course regrets the attitude the Government has taken to the development of Australia's uranium resources. My colleague the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  who is the shadow Minister for Minerals and Energy, will explain our attitude to this question in greater depth later on in this debate. In fact, on examining the guidelines in greater depth, one is left with the distinct impression that some changes have been made just for the sake of change. It would not seem that this has been done so that the present Government's attitudes, in the broader sense, did not reflect so closely those of the Labor Government. The apparent replacement of Labor's Foreign Investment Review Committee by what is virtually a part time board appears to be one of these examples of mere windowdressing. In fact, a danger that the decisionmaking process will be slowed down or even biased towards hasty development and profit taking because of the structure of the Board has arisen, in my view, in this move. What on earth do  Mr Bede  Callaghan, C.B.E., and  Sir William  Pettingell, C.B.E, bring to this process that was not already present with the Foreign Investment Review Committee, apart from delay in decision making? 
I sum up by saying that the Australian Labor Party in no way rejects the notion that foreign investment has a large role to play in Australia's future development. The importance we placed on this role was spelt out in the statement made to this House by the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  on this subject on 24 September 1975.  (Extension of time granted.)  I thank the House for this opportunity to complete a speech on this important subject. The Australian Labor Party does recognise, however, that there are substantial problems to be overcome in arriving at a description of the most effective and beneficial role foreign investment will play. I have attempted to point out a few of these problems, especially those involved in raising sufficient capital locally. We need to harness the savings of Australians into worthwhile directions. Further, the Australian Labor Party sees the role of government in Australia's future development being more than just one of a rulemaking overseer. The world is changing. Even Liberals and conservatives of the National Country Party have to get rid of their ideological hang-ups and make sure that government enterprise plugs gaps which otherwise would not be filled. 
Labor sees joint participation between private and public sectors as one of the ways by which sufficient capital can be raised and the stake of Australians in their own country not further eroded. I believe also that there is a role for the 
Government in marshalling foreign investment capital which does not require equity security for its use. The concept of fixed interest loans from large overseas concerns, organised through governments or organised in other forms, is well worth pursuing. Now that the dust is settling from the hysteria dishonestly promoted by the present Government over the so-called loans affair, it can be seen that where foreign funds are needed for our further development it is far preferable that these should come in the form of loans rather than in the form of equity. We do not want so many decisions affecting the lives of Australians made in the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Japan or anywhere else outside Australia. We want those decisions made here in Australia, and that means that we want as much Australian equity as we can possibly achieve. 
The debate on this topic must be a continuing and informed one. The Opposition will not rest on its laurels after having convinced the Liberal and National Country Parties of their pre- 1972 errors in this area but will attempt continually to raise what it sees as the problems of the future concerning the role of foreign investment in our country. I repeat: Australia is a developing country. We are not harnessing sufficient savings in this country for the necessary volume of investment. Furthermore, our foreign exchange reserves are not sufficient for all our future development needs; so inevitably there must and will be further foreign investment. The more of that investment which can come in the form of fixed interest loans the better; but it cannot and will not all come in that form. So we must have guidelines. The Australian Labor Government charted the course. For the most part, our political opponents now in government are following our lead. But there are dangers that their actions will not conform to their words. There are dangers that this present  laissez-faire  government will not actively seek Australian savings for investment to minimise the need for overseas funds. In this speech I have raised some of these dangers. 
-The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has not applied himself in any way to the very real questions about revenue sharing raised by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in this debate. I do not blame him. He knows what difficult ground he is on in applying himself to this subject. So he spent much of his speech skirting around the subject of this debate on a matter of public importance and blowing a smokescreen in relation to the New South Wales elections. I am prepared to meet him blow for blow on the New South Wales elections. I have great confidence in  Mr Wran  and his team and believe that they will win the elections next Saturday. I intend to mention those elections, too, although not so exclusively as did the Treasurer. 
The holding of the New South Wales election this week instead of when they were due later this year is yet another Fraser Government confidence trick. There are 2 vital reasons why those elections have been brought forward. Firstly, the Fraser Government persuaded  Sir Eric  Willis to have them now because of the horror Budget in August that the Fraser Government has been promising the nation, with its damaging effects on and tragic hardships for so many people in our community- indeed those who are most in need of help in our community. It is clear that the Liberal-Country Party Government could not win an election in New South Wales after August. Indeed, the real message is got across by Saturday, I do not believe that the LiberalCountry Party Government will win the election in New South Wales then. Secondly, the elections have been brought on prematurely because by August the harsh realities of the so-called new federalism policies will be known. I believe that the words 'new federalism policies' give this concept more respectability than it deserves. I call it the Fraser revenue-sharing arrangements. The harsh realities of the situation will have sunk in by later this year, even if they have not sunk in now. There is no way in which the new arrangements are going to be attractive to any State in Australia, large or small. 
The grazier from Wannon and his followers have been pulling the wool over the eyes of the State Premiers. Indeed, I believe that they have been selling the State Premiers a pup on this issue. The Premiers seemed to be pleased, as the Treasurer said, with what was unveiled on 9 April. At least that was the initial impression they gave. But in defence of and explanation for my friend and colleague who was mentioned by the Treasurer-  Mr Don  Dunstan, the Premier of South Australia- I say that I believe that his reactions have not been properly analysed. What he said after the 9 April meeting was that the proposals were all right insofar as they had been revealed at that point in time. He made it quite clear that his final reaction could not be gauged until after the next meeting of the Premiers, which is due to be held next June. He hedged, but he has not been given credit for that hedging. 
I believe- I hope that I will be permitted to use this example- that the Fraser Government has been treating these revenue-sharing proposals like Salome when she revealed herself. Tantalisingly the revealing has come about little by little. But there is one vast difference between the two. I am told that Salome left the best to the last. The last veil to be shed was the most exciting one. On the other hand the last veil of the Fraser Government's proposals has yet to be cast off. In my view when the last veil of this revenuesharing package is cast off it is going to reveal anything but an exciting package for the State Premiers- indeed, for the people of Australia. In fact, we are all going to notice that the casting off of the last veil reveals a very damaging and dangerous package. I suppose to that extent the casting off of the last veil by Salome and of this package relating to revenue-sharing proposals would be the same. 
The key agreement at the brief and I will admit at this stage seemingly amiable Premiers Conference meeting on 9 April was that the States would receive next financial year as financial assistance grants the same percentage of Commonwealth personal tax revenue as they received in financial grants this year, namely, 35 per cent. I say to that: So what? Those financial assistance grants are not all- they are not even most- of the Commonwealth assistance to the States. In fact, in the current financial year they constitute only 37 per cent of the Commonwealth payments to the States. What about the other 63 per cent, as the Leader of the Opposition pointed out earlier? What is going to happen to the other payments to the States? For instance, what about the specific purpose payments for recurrent purposes, which amount to 25 per cent or one-quarter of the payments to the States? We have heard nothing about them. What horrors are in store when that last veil is cast off and the package is further revealed? What about the Commonwealth interest-free grants, which constitute 5 per cent of the whole? What about the general and specific purpose capital funds, which between them add up to 33 per cent or about one-third of the whole? We know nothing about them. 
The more one looks at the situation in this respect the more one realises that the surface has only just been scratched in the matter of Commonwealth and State financial agreements over the next few years. There is so much more to be revealed. The more one thinks about this situation the more one realises that what has yet to be revealed is going to be disastrous for the States. It is no wonder that the Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Eric  Willis, is rushing to hold the New South Wales elections on Saturday. He wants the people of New South Wales to be hoodwinked about revenue-sharing. I believe that he does not want them to know the truth about this deal. He does not want them to realise that there is going to be relatively less coming from Canberra and that either their services will have to be cut drastically or a second serve of income tax will have to be applied to them. We have already seen what difficulties are involved in cutting services. The people will not cop too much of that. So the long and short of it is that the people of New South Wales and, indeed, the people of the other States of Australia are going to be double taxed. They are going to have to pay a Commonwealth income tax and a State income tax, which is double taxation in anybody's language. That is the first and the main point. 
The confidence trick has embraced the belief that this magic formula is going to mean more and better services, less taxation and decisionmaking closer to home. It will not mean any of those things. It is going to mean less services, more taxation and a much more inefficient use than hitherto of the taxpayer's funds. State administration of services does not mean closer to home administration. Without the transfer of these additional functions to the States the State bureaucracies have been growing at a far greater rate and in a more inefficient way than the Australian Government administration. I draw attention to an article in the  Australian Financial Review  of 17 February on that very subject. Also I draw attention to another article in the  Australian Financial Review,  already quoted by my Leader, about what  Sir Gordon  Chalk has had to say about these particular arrangements. He described this proposal as a return to the dark days. 
Every cloud has a silver lining. The New South Wales State election has at least put into focus the danger of the Fraser Government revenue sharing proposal. We have seen that is it not good enough for the States to be happy with the 35 per cent of the funds being received as a percentage of Commonwealth personal income tax revenues. There are other areas of funds receivable by the States which are likely to be cut. Other veils have yet to be cast off to reveal the dangerous package. Anyway, that financial assistance is likely to have to cover many more functions than it was hitherto. Look at the wording of the Liberal Party policy. The basic financial assistance for the States 'will also have to take into account the transfers of such section 96 grants as should be absorbed into this figure'. These other areas of State funding have become increasingly important, so much so that the general financial assistance grants used to be much more significant. In 1972-73, the last year of the McMahon Government, the States won back 42 per cent of the total income tax revenue as financial assistance grants- 7 per cent more than this wonderful figure that is apparently being offered in the forthcoming year. But this 35 per cent has to cover, as I pointed out earlier, many more functions because it also has to cover the functions carried out with section 96 grants, many of which will be slashed in the forthcoming horror Budget. The truth is, as I have said before, that this is a measure which is hoodwinking the people and I believe the people of New South Wales would do well to look at it in greater detail. 
I am pleased to enter this debate to explain the Opposition's attitude to the proposed standing committee on expenditure. I do not disagree with- 90 per cent of what the honourable member for 
Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  has said. In fact I commend him for most of his remarks. I too agree that it is necessary for the Parliament to take a far greater and closer interest in the expenditure of government, but we believe that this proposal has been ill-thought through and is ill-timed. The Opposition contends that with the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System which was not just set up in the time of the Australian Labor Party Government but which has been reestablished under the present Government, with that Committee yet to report and with that Committee having already brought down an interim report which devoted itself in one of its recommendations to this subject, we would be acting only as good parliamentarians and in such a way as to have respect for fellow parliamentarians who have done a lot of work on that Committee if we were to await the final report of that Committee. 
I believe that a measure such as the one before the House tonight merely pre-empts a lot of the hard work and thoughtful work that has been put into the deliberations of that Committee. Unfortunately I missed hearing the speech of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  but in case he did not give the details let me read recommendation 5 of the Interim Report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System- a proposed system of committees for the Australian Parliament. Recommendation S reads as follows: 1 16. It is recommended that a new Public Accounts Committee be appointed, consisting of members of the House of Representatives only. 117. Subsidiary to recommendation 5 it is also recommended that: 
the Public Accounts Committee consist of IS members; 
it normally operate in three sub-committees of five; 
This is the most pertinent part- 
its terms of reference should be those of the present Public Accounts Committee with the addition of the power to consider the policy aspects of the expenditure of government departments and statutory authorities and any forward programming of expenditure that Treasury, Departments or statutory authorities are able to specify. 
It might be desirable that the  chairman  of the subcommittee dealing with the new term of reference be an opposition member. 
With such a recommendation already in an interim report surely it would only be proper and surely it would only be showing proper courtesy to await the final report of such a committee. Those of us who were in the last Parliament had evidence that this proposal was the brainchild of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I think 
I have evidence that there were many who have greater knowledge of the committee work of this Parliament in the financial sphere- many from his own side of the Parliament- who were attempting to dissuade the Prime Minister from adopting this particular measure. I am only sorry that their efforts did not prevail. 
I have taken the trouble this evening to look up the  Parliamentary Handbook  to see the Prime Minister's own experience in this Parliament. I think it is worth pointing out that he has had no experience whatever on an economics committee of this Parliament. For instance he has not been a member of the Public Accounts Committee. He was elected to Parliament in 1955. According to the  Parliamentary Handbook,  the only committee on which he has served is the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs on which he served for 4 years, from 1 962 to 1 966. 1 believe that it is that lack of experience that has given rise to such a measure as the one we are debating tonight which probably in the long run will damage the proper scrutiny of this House in economic affairs. 
I use the experience that I have had as a member of the Public Accounts Committee of this Parliament to point out to the House that the Public Accounts Committee of the Australian Parliament has different functions from the Public Accounts Committee of the House of Commons. It has 3 functions. Two of them are the same as those of the House of Commons and one is very different. One of the functions is to look at the Estimates  ex post facto-  after the financial year has been completed. The Public Accounts Committee and the staff in particular work very hard in the months of July and August going through each item of expenditure and comparing what has actually been spent under each heading with what was estimated. It then chooses certain items for further examination, particularly where the Treasurer's Advance has been used or where there has been under-expenditure. In that way it has a very salutary effect on the estimating of the departments of government in Australia. It is very much related to this function. Admittedly it is one of those functions that is shared with the Public Accounts Committee of the House of Commons. 
The second function which is shared is the work on the Auditor-General's Report. The Auditor-General 's Report is studied by the Public Accounts Committee and certain items on which the Auditor-General has found fit to report are examined in greater detail. Incidentally, while I remember it, I must point out to the honourable member for Isaacs that in a very small way does the Auditor-General's Department help with the staffing of the Public Accounts Committee. That was a mistake made by the honourable member for Isaacs and I hope that he will soon serve on the Public Accounts Committee in order to gain more experience in these matters. I shall refer to staffing in a moment if I have time. 
The third function of the Public Accounts Committee of the Australian Parliament is very different from any function of the Public Accounts Committee of the House of Commons. That is where departments and semigovernmental authorities are examined in depth by the Public Accounts Commitee. Of course at any one time there is only time to examine one major government department and one semigovernmental authority together. I do not want to pretend that the government departments are covered very often, but during the course of such examination, the expenditure of those government departments is examined in great detail. A lot of valuable work has been done by the Public Accounts Committee in that area. So to that extent it is not fair to look at the House of Commons and say that it has found need for an expenditure committee and therefore it is natural and goes without saying that there would be such a need in the Australian Parliament. I am bound to point out that from the reading I have done about the expenditure committee of the House of Commons, in no way can it be said that the committee has been a success. I think that I am only repeating something that the honourable member for Isaacs has said already about that matter. Let me quote from a document which I think has been torn from the publication,  The Parliamentarian.  The article is headed 'The Expenditure Committee: A Preliminary Assessment'. It is written by Paul Byrne. In this article he says: 
In conclusion, it can be appreciated that far from providing a coherent overall analysis of the Government's strategic expenditure plans, the Expenditure Commitee has split into six separate sub-committees, of which only the General subcommittee has approached fulfilment of the original roleexpectation outlined in 1 969. 
I break off to point out that really there has been very short experience of the Expenditure Committee in the House of Commons. It was set up only in 1970 so probably we cannot draw any final conclusions. But from the preliminary conclusions that have been drawn about this committee, as far as my reading goes, there is no great joy up to this point. I read on: 
The main problem is that with a small membership, a large area of responsibility and professional help limited to ad hoc specialist advisers, the functional sub-committees have only had the time and resources to conduct Estimates Committee style investigations into specific topics or areas. 
In itself, this is a worthwhile function, but the subcommittees have not been able to give proper attention to the projected expenditure set out in the White Papers for their respective areas, the objectives at which it is aimed and Departments' efficiency in attaining those goals- in short, the new dimension provided by the PPB orientation. 
That is not a very optimistic report on the Expenditure Committee of the House of Commons. Although staff for the Expenditure Committee for the House of Commons is limited, I hope that in this Parliament's expenditure committee we get staff of the same calibre. I doubt whether we will. This brings me to one of the great defects of committee work in this Parliament. In my view we need the joint committees if only for one reason and that is to build up the status of each of the joint committees so that the secretary is a second division officer. It is only if there is a second division officer of, say, an economic committee of the Parliament that we will have the necessary staff structure to deal with departments of State in this nation. We cannot expect a class 10 officer- this is the class of public servant that serves as secretary of the Public Accounts Committeegood though he is in quality to have the authority when dealing with permanent heads of departments that they should have. In my experience and in my view, committee work in this Parliament will be unsatisfactory and lacking in real work of proper depth until we build up the staff structure to deal with people of the calibre of permanent heads. Otherwise we will not be able to implement such an expenditure committee as this the proposal for which, I repeat, has been hastily drawn up and brought before this House. 
I should like to mention another aspect which has led me to the conclusion that this motion has been hastily drawn up and has not been based on any real knowledge of economic committee work in this Parliament. That is the cross-fertilisation, if I can use the term, with the Public Accounts Committee. 1 realise that there is great need for co-operation between the 2 committees but when on earth is an expenditure committee of this Parliament going to have the time to sit if it has to find time other than when the Public Accounts Committee of this Parliament is meeting? If the Public Accounts Committee of this Parliament is working as hard as it did in the years when I sat on that Committee, first as  Deputy Chairman  and then as  Chairman,  then it will be meeting every Tuesday morning while the House sits. If there were time to fit in a meeting on Wednesday before the Caucus met, the Public Accounts Committee would sit for an hour. Then again it would meet on Thursday morning, certainly between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m. in each sitting week that time was required. If the Public Accounts 
Committee Chairman or his nominee is to sit on the expenditure committee, when on earth are they going to be able to fulfil their task properly by sitting on both committees? I am using this as an example of what I consider to be an unsatisfactory motion which is before this House, a motion which required the deep thought which I hope the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System is putting into this subject of parliamentary committees. 
In conclusion, I should like to say that I believe that one of the ways in which proper scrutiny of the expenditure of government departments could be carried out in the Australian context is to follow one of the recommendations of the Coombes Committee of Inquiry into the Public Service which was to build up the functions of the Auditor-General in this country. At the moment the Auditor-General looks only at whether expenditure has been properly authorised. That is not sufficient. I believe that he ought to Undertake the functions that the Controller-General of the United States Government undertakes and look at the efficacy of that expenditure as well. I believe this Parliament would be well advised to lock in an economic committee- a joint committee with the satisfactory staff which I have already talked about- with the work of the Auditor-General. In that way we would be able to carry out the hopes of the honourable member for Isasacs and have proper parliamentary scrutiny over the economic area of government in this country. We certainly will not get that by a motion such as this which is before the House today. It is hastily thought through and shows signs of its author not having had experience in this area. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that a committee of departmental officials has now reported to the Government, at the request of the Prime Minister, on how to cut the forward estimates for 1976-77 by $2,500m, or was the request for a greater amount? Were all Ministers informed of this pruning exercise, or is the rumour correct that they were not? In the interests of open government, I ask: What are the details of the suggested cuts, particularly in relation to education? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Do member countries of such United Nations aid bodies as UNICEF and UNDP usually pledge late each year the level of their financial support for those agencies in the following calendar year. 
If so, what has Australia pledged to give (a) UNICEF and (b) UNDP in the calendar year 1976. 
If no such pledges have yet been made by Australia, what is the reason. 
Can he say how much has been pledged by comparable countries such as Canada, the Netherlands and Sweden for 1976. 
-In opening this debate on these 2 Appropriation Bills I am bound to mention the occasion when Appropriation Bills were last before this Parliament. I am referring, of course, to Appropriation Bills (No. 1) and (No. 2) which eventually were passed by the Senate, after a damaging delay, on that infamous  coup d'etat  day, 11 November 1975. Although by next Tuesday 6 months will have elapsed since that shameful day in Australia's history, as far as I am concerned- I believe this applies also to my colleagues in the Australian Labor Party- time has not diminished our feeling of outrage at what happened on that day and during the period leading up to that day. The stark fact is that a parliamentary democracy anywhere is a system which requires tolerance on the part of those operating it if it is to survive. It is a fickle flower, a fragile mechanism. Our constitutional monarchy in Australia is no exception. Part of that essential tolerance is not only an adherence to the written word of the Constitution but a respect for and a submission to convention; and furthermore, an interpretation of those conventions and those written words which is politically practical and represents commonsense. 
Leading up to 1 1 November, to the unnatural termination of the Whitlam Labor Government, important conventions were broken in a 'sleazy grab for power' by the conservatives of this country. Labor senators were not replaced by other Labor senators when their terms terminated by death or for other reasons because Liberal and National Country Party State regimes broke the convention. The Senate of this Parliament, by refusing to grant Supply, forced an election of the House of Representatives against the will of the House of Representatives, thus breaking a convention which had stood for 75 years and a convention which applies in every other comparable Parliament in the world, including those of federations. Before Supply had run out and allegedly without warning by consultation with his Executive Council, and certainly against the wishes of his Executive Council, a substitute Head of State terminated the term of a Government which still commanded the support of a reasonable majority of this House. That was a political act which has irreparably damaged not just tolerance in our community but the fragile fabric of our constitutional monarchy. 
Whatever the rights and wrongs of the decision itself, namely the forcing of an election by the Head of State- I do not go into the constitutional details but I concede the point that that could well have been an inevitable outcomethere is no visible excuse for the way it was done. If there is an excuse, for the sake of tolerance in this country, that excuse should be told to the people now so that we can return to a greater tolerance, so that our system does not continue to be in danger, and so that time will heal. 
In no way is time alone going to heal the present wounds. Boycotts will continue. What goes on in this Parliament, whatever the opinions and reactions being expressed by people like me, is only a reflection of the genuine and understandable feeling of outrage which exists outside this Parliament. What will go on in Perth during the Governor-General's forthcoming visit is a testimony of that. If anyone thinks that the royal visit next year, if we still have the present Governor-General, will be a joyous occasion had better think again. I repeat that time itself alone is not going to heal. 
Only by codifying the essential conventions, by changing our written Constitution, and, more immediately, by the resignation of our substitute Head of State who made these decisions which brought about this damaging and politically dangerous situation will tolerance return. There are people of goodwill on both sides of this Parliament, some sensitive people, who see the dangers of allowing an ugly and divisive situation such as exists in so many minds today to continue. All these people should get together to make sure that the necessary changes are made. Too much of what was done was done for the short term advantage of a few greedy people. Let us work for the long term advantage of our nation. 
The irony of the stark facts I have just outlined is that the follies were committed in the name of good government. What 'good government' is there in the virtual instability which exists now? Until change is made Australia must suffer a system where not even a short 3-year term of government can be guaranteed. A hostile Senate with an Opposition majority can interrupt the already normal short term of a government if there is political advantage in that being done. So a government in this position must always be looking to what is popular, not to what is correct and what is right for our nation. This is bad government. With the breaking of the essential conventions for stability it could even happen to this present government with its seemingly large majority right now. One or two aeroplane crashes can turn Senate majorities into Senate minorities and the results in the New South Wales State election show how quickly popularity in the community can wilt away. I do not think there is one new conservative member in this House from New South Wales who would win a majority on last Saturday's figures. This has happened in less than 5 months since the last Federal election and less than 6 months since the infamous  coup d'etat  day of 1 1 November. 
Before leaving the point of instability in government which was one of the tragic results of that shameful episode, let me point out that a federation like ours, with the short 3-year terms, is the last place in the world which requires these extraordinary powers for the Senate. We are the most over governed nation with far too many politicians. With all our many State governments and with the ever present probability of having Senate elections separate from House of Representatives elections, we are always having elections. Never can a Federal Government become unpopular in this country without dire consequences for the Party which forms that government. There is an enormous pressure for conservatism, for resisting change, for popularity. There is no need for this Senate veto, particularly over money matters. Furthermore, if ever our founding fathers intended that there should be this veto- and there is real doubt whether or not that was the original intentionthen the reasons for it do not exist today. 
The Senate is not a States' House. It is a Party House. This nation is not 6 separate communities. Improved transport facilities have made it one nation with each part to an enormous extent dependent on the rest. Not only have the politically outrageous acts of late last year created enormous instability, but they have driven home the deceit of our system, the deceit of the pretence on which it is based- the pretence that the Senate is a States' House. They have driven home the conservativeness of our system; the realisation that it is almost impossible to bring about orderly change within this system. Tragically those outrageous events have turned some minds to thinking about bringing about change outside this system. 
There is further irony in the outrageous events. The motivation for the damaging action perpetrated by the Liberal Party and the National Country Party which led to the damaging political atrocities of the substitute Head of State was brought about by so-called reprehensible circumstancestwo of them. The first was alleged dishonesty in government. Where is this dishonesty? The Liberal-National Country Party Government has been in control now for almost 6 months. Where are the royal commissions to find our dishonesty? If there were a smell. or truth in the despicable claims, we would have had many such inquiries by now. The eccentric bleats of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  do not add up to anything of substance, because there is no dishonesty to be found on the part of any member of the Australian Parliamentary Labor Party, nor of any Labor Minister, nor of any Labor back bencher. 
Those are the facts. The more time passes by the more realisation there is that it was wise to seek fixed interest loans from overseas for the development of this country. Such loans are far preferable to allowing the equity of this country to be purchased by foreigners. That was what happened in the 1950s and the 1960s under the Liberal Party and the Country Party. Similar large amounts came into this country but equity was purchased. They did not come in by fixed interest loans. In a time of development we do need the foreign exchange reserves. Only this past week the present Government has announced more loan raising overseas, in this instance a fixed interest loan from the United States of America. With the benefit of hindsight, we may conclude that there are some methods of raising such loans which are better than others. But this does not add up to a reprehensible circumstance. That excuse for committing outrageous and damaging acts of destruction against the fragile fabric of our constitutional monarchy just will not wear. 
So we come to the other alleged reprehensible circumstance- the so-called mismanagement of the economy by Labor. It has taken less than 6 months for the people of Australia to realise the falsity of this claim. The people of New South Wales, by their vote last Saturday, whether the electoral system allows  Mr Wran  to become Premier or not, have shown by a vast majority in anyone's language- well over 50 per cent of the popular vote- that they do not reject Labor's attitudes and philosophies and potential. 
Australia is a great trading nation. We are affected enormously by the world-wide trade cycle. Our present troubles of inflation and unemployment to a large extent are the result of a world-wide trade cycle phenomenon. The Australian Labor Government suffered the misfortune of being in power for the first time in 23 years, with so much to do, at a time of world economic upheaval. It was totally dishonest to blame Labor for so many of the economic difficulties that prevailed. 
The economic history of the last 6 months of Liberal-National Country Party Government shows how dishonest it was of the Frasers, the Lynches, the Anthonys, the Sinclairs of this world and all their followers - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member should refer to members of this House by their parliamentary titles, not by their names. 
I accept your ruling,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I am referring of course to the 4 Leaders of this coalition Government- the 2 National Country Party Leaders and the 2 Liberal Leaders. It was foolish for them and all their followers to pretend, and it is misleading to pretend to the Australian people that they had the answers. They did not have the answers. They have not the answers now and from all the signs it is doubtful whether they will improve and have the answers in the future. Due to their false philosophies, stupid attitudes and wrong policies they have postponed the economic improvement which was under way. The world economic recovery has commenced. The signs are good in the USA, West Germany and, to a lesser extent, Japan. We should be locking into that world recovery situation. 
Apart from the March retail sales figures, which could be a temporary aberration, the Australian indicators show a turn for the worse since the Liberal Party and the National Country Party came to power. They lied their way into office. They have not been able to deliver the goods. The Australian people are already beginning to give them their just desserts. I refer, of course, to the New South Wales election. Their policies and utterances have been wrong. It would seem that to a limited extent, they now realise they have been wrong. Some of them are now changing their tune. Instead of talking gloom- belt tightening, no soft options, tough budgets- they are now exorting people to get out and spend. Presumably they are talking to those people whom they have allowed to have some reasonable income and whose bank deposits are growing; not to those people whose incomes they are limiting- pensioners, wage earners and so many others. 
Now we have rumours of mini-budgets. These are panic measures of men who realise that thenwords and their policies have hitherto been wrong. They have caused chaos in the wages market by putting indexation in jeopardy. They have increased interest rates. They have caused unemployment. They have caused hardship by slashing Government expenditure. In short, they have postponed the return of consumers' confidencethe one thing needed for economic recovery. 
They have managed to be generous where their own, more affluent supporters stood to gain. The superphosphate bounty was one case in point. The investment allowance- a most confusing area of their policy- is another. It was overgenerous and has not helped economic recovery in any measurable way. Because it was so expensive to revenue, it has closed other more beneficial options. But it is to Government expenditure and so-called savings- in my view more aptly called under-expenditure- as detailed in these Appropriation Bills and the second reading speeches that I want to devote the rest of my speech. 
Even in the second reading speeches on these Bills, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has been unable to resist the temptation to distort the facts and to seek to reflect ill upon the Australian Labor Government. The Treasurer compares the extra appropriation of $506m sought in this year with the $ 1,241m sought at a similar time last year. The comparison is meant to portray more efficient management on the part of the present Government. The Treasurer conveniently omits to inform us that the extra included in last year's Bills was of course the result of deliberate policy initiatives taken after the 1974-75 Budget. It was a time of world caused growing unemployment. Spending was necesary to save that unemployment from becoming worse. That saving was instituted; unemployment was saved from becoming worse. 
In general, I have left it to my colleagues to explore the details of the cuts outlined in the documents which accompany these Bills. I shall concern myself primarily with the ramifications of these cuts for economic recovery. However, there are cuts in one area which I must mention. The full cynical nature of this Government is revealed in its cuts in foreign aid. How anybody, let alone an Australian Treasurer, can feel pleased with making savings of $2 lm on finance which was destined to alleviate suffering in countries much worse off than Australia is beyond me. The full import of the lack of feeling that runs in this Government is brought home when one realises that such a cut has minimal significance for the running of the Australian domestic economy. Other cuts- or foreshadowed cuts- which illustrate the shortsightedness of this Government's penny-pinching in some areas are plans to shelve the impact long term economic planning model of the Australian economy and also the household expenditure survey by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Both these projects could be of invaluable aid to effective future economic planning. These cuts are counterproductiveinefficient. 
I now turn my attention to stabilisation impacts of the Government's cutbacks. The Australian Labor Government's Budget of August 1975 was subject to a campaign of vilification from the very date of its introduction. However, little debate took place over the real issues in the Budget, most attack being directed at the planned deficit of $2.8 billion. This was strange, as the Opposition's alternative Budget which it introduced to the world a week later contained an imputed deficit of much the same size. As the campaign to justify the ultimate removal from office of the Australian Labor Government gained momentum, members of the Opposition, particularly the present Treasurer, attacked the very success the Labor Government had in controlling the rapid growth in wages. As wage growth slowed, so did taxation receipts and naturally the deficit widened. 
It is important to realise that virtually all the $ 1,200m to $ 1,400m increase that will occur in the deficit has been as a result of a shortfall in taxation receipts, not as this government would have us believe as a result of extravagant expenditure excesses. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in this House on 26 February described the deficit as 'rising out of control'good propaganda but totally misleading. As it turns out the ultimate deficit will be of the order of $4 billion, a total reflection of the success of the Australian Labor Government's wages policy. We do not like seeing workers with less wages, but we realise that the rate of increase in wages must be minimised for economic stability in our country. 
This Government's ideological assault on the concept of deficit financing has been long and intense and it has still not ceased. The Budget deficit still retains such an awe of fascination for the Government that virtually every economic statement emanating from it contains words of false wisdom about the harm caused by the deficit. The Treasurer in this House on 27 April in reply to a question from the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  accused me as shadow Treasurer- I suppose I should be pleased that he felt it worth while doing this- of making 'utter and complete distortions' in statements 'on the international comparisons of the Australian deficit as a proportion of GDP'. The implication of what he said was that in describing the Australian deficit as far from unique I was supporting the untenable. 
To accompany this statement the Treasurer produced a series of statistics designed to demonstrate the relatively large size of the Australian domestic deficit compared to overseas countries. As is the Treasurer's habit he declined to give us the source of these figures. This, of course, tends to reduce their worth. However, let us assume that they are the latest available from a reliable source. I will speculate that they are unconfirmed Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development figures. If one is going to base a larger part of the rationale for one's economic policy on these figures, surely 2 provisos should be mentioned in their relationship. Firstly, the figures for the United States of America and Germany will understate the extent of deficit financed public expenditure. This happens because of the different constitutional relationship between central, State and local government as regards public sector borrowing. The OECD incidentally in the past has pointed this out when giving figures such as those produced by the Treasurer. The States and local government in those countries can go into deficit which the Australian States and local government cannot do. 
The second point regarding figures such as these is that statistics must lag behind actual events. For example, the figures quoted by the Treasurer for the United States appear to be appropriate to a central government deficit of $50 billion to $70 billion- an original estimate much along the lines of the estimate of $2.8 billion for the Australian Budget deficit last year. As reported in the  Economist  of 4 October 1975,  Mr William  Simon, Secretary to the United States Treasury, stated to a Congress committee that the United States Budget deficit was going to be much larger than that originally budgeted and would probably be of the order of $90 billionapproaching 6 per cent of gross domestic product. This makes nonsense of the answer given to the Dorothy Dixer asked by the honourable member for Curtin in this House. 
The purpose of this discussion of figures is not to engage is a semantic argument with the 
Treasurer over the definition of the deficit, for that is all it becomes when comparatively small differences are looked at. The purpose is to demonstrate that running a higher than normal deficit is not a purely Australian phenomenon. It is happening as industrialised countries throughout the world attempt to cope with the deepest recession since the depression days of the 1930s. Unfortunately, as long as the Treasurer continues in this campaign of attaching odium to the very existence of the deficit by any means whatsoever, meaningful debate on the right course for Australia's economic policy will be stifled. 
It is important to dispel the erroneous impression that a high budget deficit is uniquely Australian. But it is more important to realise that as far as economic stabilisation policy is concerned changes in the direction of government expenditure at any one time are of more significance than the actual levels of that expenditure. This the Government appears not to realise. The Australian Labor Party contends that slashing government spending- a deflationary move- is not the action needed to engender economic recovery in Australia. It is becoming more and more obvious that overseas countries which have turned the corner out of recession have done so with the aid of an expanding government sector. I will now instance a few of these countries. 
Japan is a country whose recent economic ills have closely paralleled our own. Let us see how they have attacked their problems. The Japanese Government has taken a number of measures which sharply contrast with those of the Fraser Government. On government expenditure the Japanese Government introduced in October 1975 a supplementary budget designed to reflate its economy. The key reflation ingredient was increased government spending. This occurred in a number of areas including public works, housing finance, loans for pollution control and loans for small business. On the interest rate front the Japanese Government moved to make real cuts in interest rates. Compare this to the action of the Fraser Government which instituted a phoney, artificial cut in the lower maximum overdraft rate and then ensured a general lift in interest rates by the introduction of the overpitched savings bonds. The Japanese Government set about trying to promote recovery through encouraging the private sector to see that it was the Government's role to supplement shortfalls in overall demand levels. The Fraser Government saw until recently only gloom at every corner and any government-initiated demand supplement as an evil to be avoided at all costs. 
So much for Japan. But now let us look at recent economic problems in the United States.  Dr Pierre  Renfret, Economic Adviser to 3 United States presidents, at a recent gathering of Sydney members of the American Chamber of Commerce in Australia outlined 2 key factors in America's economic revival. One of these was an upturn in consumer confidence, something the Australian Labor Party has been advocating here, and the other was that the American Government was, to quote him, 'spending money like there was no tomorrow'.  Dr Renfret  estimated that the real American central government deficit would be at least half as large again as that budgeted. 
Deficit figures for fiscal years 1975 and 1976 indicate also that Canada is using increased government expenditure to underwrite economic recovery. As the  Economist  of 4 October 1975 points out, even France, which on face value appears not to be doing so, is reflating through public sector involvement. This is because although it has a comparatively small budget deficit the financing of this deficit is being done through a direct increase in the money supply. 
The  Bulletin  of May carries a story on a western European country which appears to have got off scot free while its neighbours are freezing in the slump. This country is, of course, Sweden. The main reason given for Sweden's economic health is its willingness to spend its way out of potential trouble. Incidentally the Swedish performance would tend to put the lie to another socalled 'fact' members of the present Government are fond of parading- that of a link between an increased size of public sector and poor economic performance. Sweden's public sector as measured by general government expenditure as a percentage of GDP hovers around 50 per cent while the comparable Australian figure is of the order of 32 per cent 
One does begin to wonder just which countries the Treasurer was referring to when he said: 
The simple fact is that governments throughout the industrialised world- particularly those with which I have had direct conversation- at the present time are in the process of reducing their deficits ana in particular the overall quantum of public spending. 
One would recognise New Zealand as one of this select group but even it is in a somewhat different position to Australia as it is confronted with a massive balance of payments deficit. 
Incidentally, before the Treasurer starts quoting projected 1977 deficit figures as evidence of an international move towards a decline in government expenditure I point out that once recovery is substantially under way the requirement for stimulus from government is reduced and therefore, of course, the requirement for government deficits is reduced. The point to be noted in this regard is that while overseas a recovery is definitely emerging, the actions of this Government in this country, as I have already said, appear to be postponing such an occurrence in Australia. 
The examples of the actions taken by countries with similar problems to Australia's are intended to repudiate the myth being foisted on the Australian people by this Government. The Fraser Government has conducted an elaborate campaign to convince Australians that severe cuts in government spending are a virtual prerequisite for economic recovery. The actions of governments in countries where recovery is under way deny this. We have reached the stage where the Treasurer parades every cut in government expenditure with all the enthusiasm of a new Messiah with a message of salvation. Cuts are announced and immediately seen as good and just. No attempt has been made to explain the ramifications of the multiplier effect of individual government cuts. Even the Treasurer must know that different types of government expenditure have different impacts on the economy. This Government seems not to realise that cutting government expenditure does not automatically transfer resources to the private sector, and that cuts themselves mean less work for firms. Let us look at just one industry to suffer from shortsighted government cuts. I quote 'The Fraser Government's economics are seriously damaging the already weakened construction industry'. This is how the business digest  Rydge's  in its April issues describes the action of the Government which came to power on the promise that it was the administration which could get business moving. The Sydney newspaper the  Sun Herald  in its edition of 2 May in a story headed 'Builders on the bread line' points to a significant issue which the Government appears ready to ignore. I quote: 
If the industry (building and construction) is allowed to sink to the very depths of depression there will not be sufficient competent professional, contracting teams and tradesmen to handle the work when demand revives. 
This statement highlights the problems of structural dislocation which continued recession will bring- recession caused by the Liberal-National Country Party Government's false ideology. 
Despite this threat on the horizon the Treasurer announces that the Government has saved $18m be deferring a number of capital works projects in the Departments of Transport, Northern Territory and Construction and a further $29m by abolishing the Australian Housing Corporation. This might be $47m of saving to the Treasurer and hence a source of satisfaction to him. One doubts that the ailing companies and the unemployed workers in the building and construction industry for whom this money was intended would share his satisfaction, nor would the people of Australia who need the fruits of the work of this industry. The problems confronting the building industry are just examples of the damage being done throughout the economy as recovery is delayed. The Labor Party feels confident that just as the world-wide economic recession was the prime cause of the Australian recession then eventually Australia will be dragged into the world-wide economic recovery despite delays caused by this Government. However, we are concerned about structural damage which may occur in the meantime. At long last it would appear that sections of the Government are also recognising this, if the Prime Minister's recent exhortations and recent change of attitude are any guide. They are, it would seem, now at the stage of changing policy. I hope so. Their old ideology is in tatters. They do not know whether they want to deflate or reflate. They do not know whether they are coming or going. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. What was the purpose of his statement on radio and television last night? Why was the statement not made in this Parliament? Why the timing? Was it designed to influence the national wage decision? At what rate will the Medibank levy be applied? Will tax indexation be in full? And so on. 
-The Opposition supports this Bill. Frankly this Bill, like the Customs Amendment Bill, which has just passed through this House, is not one of those Bills which will rivet the attention of the gallery or those listening to this debate at home and have them lifting the roof with their cheers. In fact, it is quite a complicated machinery Bill. Two of the amendments it contains will tend to improve the effectiveness of control over foreign investment. For example, the repeal of section 29 of the Foreign Takeovers Act will ensure that foreign and domestic companies are treated in the same way under the Trade Practices Act. Under section 29 of the Foreign Takeovers Act the Treasurer has the power to issue a certificate allowing a transaction involving foreign interests to go ahead if he is satisfied that the transaction is not contrary to the national interest. However, this certificate can be regarded as being binding on the Trade Practices Tribunal, so preventing that tribunal from scrutinising transactions involving foreign persons or companies. Repeal of section 29 does not remove the Government's responsibility for scrutinising transactions with overseas interests. Rather it ensures that, where required, two assessments will be made- one by the Foreign Investment Review Board and the other by the Trade Practices Tribunal. This double assessment will ensure after this Bill goes through that, if anything, greater care is taken with foreign investment proposals. Certificates which have already been issued will not be invalidated by this amendment. 
A second amendment strengthening the Act involves expanding the types of foreign control which the Act regulates. By adding the word 'practices' to clause 8, additional means by which foreign control might be obtained in a company are covered by the Act. This concept of regulating 'practices', which are not described in detail in the Act, was used in the original Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act. 
Other amendments clarify the way in which the Act is expected to work. Section 26 of the Act requires that any foreign interests intending to acquire a substantial shareholding in an Australian company must notify the Treasurer. It was not the intention of the Labor Government in introducing this clause to prevent preliminary discussion about transactions. The important point was that no legally binding agreement should be made until there has been adequate time for scrutiny by the Treasury. It is therefore appropriate that this amendment allows conditional agreements to be discussed and made as long as they do not become binding until approval is given. 
The other significant amendment in this Bill is to section 38 of the Act. The amendment protects the interests of Australians who might be penalised by actions which are inconsistent with the Act. The Labor Government had this machinery Bill in mind itself when it was removed from office. It certainly could not in any way oppose its passage through this House. For the reasons I have given the Opposition supports these generally technical amendments. 
-Most of the amendments proposed in the Audit Amendment Bill 1976 are technical. The Opposition does not oppose them. The previous Australian Labor Party Government had a Bill proposing the same amendments in the course of preparation at the time its period in Government was cut short by the unprecedented actions of the Senate in refusing to pass Supply. The Bill seeks to update the Audit Act, which is the basic legal framework in which the Government's accounts are kept. Some of the amendments are necessary because the use of computers has changed accounting practice. The repeal and replacement for instance of section 40 and the amendment of section 41 to remove the obligation on the Treasurer to maintain a cash book and provide a cash sheet to the Auditor-General fall into this category. With the large number of transactions which now occur and the use of computers, it is not practical to maintain a single cash book. 
Some of the amendments are to dot forgotten 'i's and cross forgotten 44 in the existing Act. The amendment to section 32 is an example. As the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  said in his second reading speech, if the provisions in the present Act were strictly adhered to they would cause delays in the payment of income tax refunds and in the making of other payments. The common sense of all concerned has led to these provisions in the Act being ignored in practice. Even though no one is likely to challenge that practice in the courts, I understand that the Auditor-General would like to see the common sense approach embodied in the law. I agree that it is proper to take this opportunity to amend the Act accordingly. 
Another group of amendments is needed to enable some unnecessary accounting and legislative procedure to be dispensed with. The new versions of sections 27 to 30 and section 62B will reduce the accounting work associated with interest earned by private moneys held in trust by the Government. The new provisions regarding transfers of appropriations at times when new departments are established to take over existing functions of other departments will also reduce accounting difficulties. The changes to section 49 come within this group. The existing section requires the Treasury to publish a monthly statement of the receipts and expenditure of the Consolidated Revenue Fund and expenditure from the Loan Fund, and a halfyearly statement of the receipts and expenditure of the 3 funds- the Consolidated Revenue Fund, the Trust Fund and the Loan Fund. These statements are out of date. It is many years- even decades- since governments budgeted in terms of these accounting funds. The Budget is nowadays presented in terms of the economic effects of various transactions and the functions of government for which expenditures are made. The continued publication of data based on the 3 funds causes only confusion, and the proposed amendment will mean that the data no longer must be published. 
This amendment raises in my mind the question of why we are not abolishing the 3 funds. It seems to me that they are as redundant as the statements we are being asked to abolish with this Bill. Their continued existence affects the legislative streams through which the Government's spending policies come before the Parliament, so that detailed scrutiny cannot be in the context of total spending but is focused instead on spending from one fund at a time. In the past the Parliament has hardly looked beyond the 
Consolidated Revenue Fund. It is my hope that the new Expenditure Committee of this House, of which I am a member, will be able to look at all the transactions of the various departments and will not be constricted by the outmoded 3 funds system. 
The final group of amendments proposed in the Bill related to the role and functions of the Auditor-General. One of these amendments grants him some discretion in the reports he makes to Parliament. Others permit him to undertake audits other than those required of him by Parliament and, in certain cases, to charge for services rendered. As I said at the outset, we do not oppose this Bill. We had intended, as I also said, to introduce an identical Bill ourselves while the Australian Labor Party was in government. As the Minister said in his second reading speech, the amendments have been discussed with the Parliamentary Joint Committee of Public Accounts and detailed scrutiny by that Committee threw up no difficulties. I see no reason why the Bill should not pass quickly. 
Before I resume my seat I would like to say something about efficiency audits to which the Minister alluded in the last paragraph of his speech. At present the Auditor-General reports on the regularity of transactions and the authorisations for those transactions. He looks at the Government's accounts to see that money has been spent as the Parliament intended and that frauds etc. have not been committed. He does not consider whether or not value for money has been achieved. There is a strongly held view in the community at large that value for money is hot achieved by many programs. I hope that this view is not generally accurate, although I am sure that it is true in some areas. Perhaps even the superphosphate bounty could be a case in point. 
When the Australian Labor Party came to government we commissioned  Dr Coombs  to report on the ongoing expenditures of the former government and to advise us on programs which were not providing value for money. We published the report and we acted on many of the items discussed in the report. In fact later tonight or certainly tomorrow when the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill 1976 is before us there will be discussion on one of the Coombs ' recommendations relating to wine producers. The present Governn.ent apparently has carried out a similar exercise, though rather more covertly. It appointed a  Mr Visbord  who has made a report to the Government. On the basis of that report I read that cuts of $ 1,400m- the figure varies; it could be $ 1,500m- will be made in spending. Maybe we will learn more tomorrow night from the much publicised statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  I hope that the Visbord report will be presented tomorrow night, along with other papers that will be brought down in this House at the same time as the Treasurer's statement is made, so that we can all see what criteria were used in arriving at these cuts. 
Clearly then both sides of this House have found a need to examine programs to see that they are necessary and valuable. It would be desirable that this process be continuous and that all reports prepared be published. It may be that the Auditor-General is the right person to prepare such reports, but I am not sure that this is so. Since 1901 the Auditor-General's Office has carried out accounting-legal functions. The Auditor's staff are experts in this area. However, that does not necessarily mean that the staff members are experts in efficiency or in value for money. Indeed in the Bill before the House we can see that some of the legal and accounting processes they have been administering have reduced efficiency and led to wasted administrative effort. 
It seems to me that one of the essentials for efficient administration is flexibility- the freedom to vary programs in response to changing circumstances. This requirement obviously conflicts with the requirements of the Audit Act that spending be precisely as authorised in the detailed appropriations, etc. I wonder whether the so-called efficiency audits might not be better left to a body such as the Expenditure Committee of this House. For that Committee to carry out that task, which is surely part of its charter, it obviously will require a sizable and high quality staff. I hope that the Government does not carry its staff ceilings policy to such lengths that it stifles the work of the committee in this area. 
I notice the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  in the House. When he was last in this Parliament a few years ago he and I served on the Public Accounts Committee. I believe that you were a member of the Committee at that time,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  You and he will remember that three to four years ago we on that Committee studied amendments to the Audit Act. I note that the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  also is in the House. He was a valuable member of that Committee. We all should take pleasure from the fact that at the last the Parliamentary Counsel has had time to put into legislative effect the changes proposed in those days long ago. 
On the subject of efficiency audits I might add that I have thought through another possibly. I am not sold on the idea that a committee of this Parliament can carry them out. If a committee of the Parliament is to do so, I am sold on the idea that it must have a very efficient secretariat in order to do it well. However, I have in other places, including conferences of the Royal Institute of Public Administration, canvassed the idea of the Auditor-General himself doing it. I know that he has thought of this himself. Indeed he would be the first to agree that his staff would require different training. He would require a far larger staff than he now has. But somebody would have to learn this new work and, after examination, it may be found that it would be best if the Auditor-General and his Department undertook this work. I add that this would be following the precedent of the United States of America where the similar officer and the similar department- namely, the Controller-General and his Department- carry out not only the narrower function of our Auditor-General but also the efficiency audit, looking at the efficacy of expenditure, ensuring that it is being spent in the most profitable way and ensuring that it is being spent for the purposes for which parliament appropriated it. 
In 1974, just over 2 years ago, I had the pleasure of visiting the United States. In the course of my educational tour in Washington I got to know the Controller-General of the United States Government and a few members of his senior staff. I explored the valuable work that they are doing in this area. I have just one more thought on the subject and that is that where in the United States programs are jointly carried out with the States of that nation the Controller-General has the function of sitting down with the Controllers-General of the States and jointly auditing the programs which are joint programs. I hope that under co-operative federalism, as it really should be and as it will be instituted by the next Australian Labor Government, the functions of the Auditor-General will mean that he will sit down with his State counterparts and jointly audit programs for the benefit of this Parliament and for the benefit of the State parliaments. I repeat that I am delighted that this Bill is at last before the House, after all these years of examination of the subjects. I hope that soon we will have before this House another Bill of a similar nature which in some way or another will mean that an efficiency audit is carried out, perhaps by the Auditor-General or by some other body of this Parliament. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. 
-I formally move the Opposition's amendment to the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill 1976 in the following terms: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House notes that: 
the legislation involves the breaking of election promises with the removal for many of home mortgage interest deductions and the inadequate alterations to winemakers' tax liability, and 
the provisions for the introduction of the investment allowance have created a chaotic situation in the economy. 
The Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill is made up of 5 main parts. Firstly there is clause 3 which covers the eligibility of securities for the 30/20' status. The House will know that life assurance companies and superannuation funds are saved from additional tax imposts if they invest a certain ratio of their securities, namely the '30/20' ratio, in authorised investments. Clause 3 alters this arrangement by excluding those securities issued after 12 April 1976 by banks constituted under Commonwealth, State or Territory legislation. The Opposition has no objection to this alteration. From our knowledge and advice, those banks do not and will not have difficulty in obtaining investment by institutions and the public in the scrip they have to offer. Important though the investment in that scrip may be, this law until this point of time did give an advantage to such banks over their competitors in the private sector. Let me state again on behalf of the Australian Labor Party that, although we promote public enterprise, like other social democrats and democratic socialists everywhere in the world we see this promotion in the context of a mixed economy of private as well as public enterprise. Where both exist side by side we see the need for the competition between the two to be scrupulously fair. We intended this to be so in promoting an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. We want the competition to be fair in the banking field. Therefore we do not oppose this measure. Frankly, we see another fringe benefit. The investment by life assurance companies and superannuation funds which will not from 12 April take place in these banks must be lodged in other authorised areas for the 30/20' rule to apply. If anything we see these other areas- Commonwealth bonds and State government instrumentalities, to name just two- to be more important for the national interest. 
The second principal section of this Bill relates to the trading stock of wine makers and covers clauses 5 and 20 of the Bill. We shall see later that the majority of those taxpayers promised something by the Government's investment allowance have at least received something. The wine makers, however, have learned the hard way the real consequences of the meaning of the statement which became 'inoperative'. On 19 June 1975 the present Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  when  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, issued a statement calling on the then Australian Labor Government to withdraw the system of stock valuation of wine producers introduced in the 1973-74 Budget. He said the new basis of stock valuation for wine makers combined with the increases in company tax rates was threatening to bankrupt many important Australian wine producing companies. A pledge was given that a Liberal-National Country Party Government would abolish Labor's new stock valuation system. The wine makers could be forgiven for being surprised when they found that the Treasurer, when the test came, did not honour this undertaking. One would imagine that in future they will treat promises from politicians of the Liberal and National Country Parties with a little more scepticism than they have in the past. Obviously wine makers do not rank highly on the private sector influence hierarchy. When the crunch came, promises to them went by the board. 
Although the legislation before the House increases by 3 years the time provided in the existing Act for the payment of deferred taxes, there is in effect only a one-year increase over what the Labor Government was preparing to do when it was removed from office. The Premier of South Australia, on behalf of the then Prime Minister, announced on 7 July last the measures incorporated in clauses 5 and 20. The only real difference in this legislation before the House now over what was proposed by us is a phase-in period of 8 years rather than 7 years. Despite the fact that this Government while in Opposition vehemently opposed the abolition of section 3 1 A it now sees merit in the removal of that section. This is another example of the expediency ethic which pervades this Government. This is the same ethic that has brought us the equivocation over Medibank, pensioner funeral benefits and other issues. 
Let us get this issue clear. Whereas most taxpayersin fact, as far as I know, all but those who trade in livestock- are obliged to bring into their taxable income a valuation of stock which is based on the lower value of cost replacement or market value, wine makers used to be given a concession under section 31A of a still lower value. Although a certain parcel of stock may have cost them, say, $100 to produce- and they got a deduction for this $ 100 cost- yet under section 3 1 A they were allowed to bring in as a credit only, say, $80. So their taxable income was reduced by $20. Eventually when the parcel of stock was sold they would be caught up with. Say that parcel of wine was sold in the following year for $ 120. They would then have to pay tax on the surplus of $40- the difference between the $80 and the $120. If they had brought the stock in for the full value of $100 they would have paid tax on only $20 in the earlier year and another $20 in the following year. So section 3 1 A had the effect of postponing the profit to a later year. It had the effect of giving wine makers an advantage over most others in our community. It deferred their tax on this extra surplus. 
There were arguments in favour of this deferred tax. A characteristic of the industry is the operation of many small companies which do not have a lot of working capital. Wine makers need to keep red wines for quite a long time. Those who enjoy the product of the grape will know that many reds improve with maturity. But, of course, improvement with maturity applies to other products as well- for instance, some timbers. Both sides in politics have now agreed that there is equity in the elimination of section 31 A. We believe that the industry can adjust to the new circumstances without dire consequences. Certainly I shall be doing all I can to see that the small companies survive. I assume that the large companies will automatically survive. I like to think that if I were Treasurer at the time of this change being made I would have drawn the legislation in such a way that no deferred taxes would have been payable and those who did not use section 31A would have been credited with the notional value of the tax had they used a 3 1 A valuation of their stocks. But this was not to be. My Party decided that the deferred taxes should be paid over 7 years. This Government, the Liberal and National Country Party coalition, has altered this from 7 years to 8 years. 
What humbug this is. We roundly condemn these coalition parties for misleading the wine industry, as indeed they have done, in their grab for power. They gave the clear indication, not only to the nation in general but also to the wine industry in particular, that they would give great benefits to the industry. They have done no such thing. For window-dressing, for hoodwinking reasons at a time of an election, they have merely increased the payment of deferred taxes period from 7 years to 8 years. They stand condemned. There is such condemnation in the Opposition's amendment at the second reading stage of this Bill. 
The third principal part of this Bill,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  I know you are interested in wine but I am moving on from there- relates to the removal of the special double depreciation allowance on new plant and the introduction of the 40 per cent investment allowance. Before dealing with these separately, may I indicate, as we have done in our amendment, that I believe these moves have created a chaotic situation. The Treasurer said in his second reading speech that provisions relating to the :new investment allowances were the outstanding features of this Bill just as the allowance was an outstanding feature of the Government's program for getting the economy on the move again. I hope for the sake of the thousands of Australians out of work that the Government's less outstanding measures to get the economy moving have greater success than the socalled outstanding measures of this investment allowance. 
The joint survey issued by the Australian Chamber of Commerce and the National Bank in April revealed that only 8 per cent of respondents said that the allowance had greatly influenced their investment decisions. In fact  Mr S.'  F. Hickson,  President  of the Australian Chamber of Commerce, was drawn to say 'that the improved outlook for capital expenditure has been maintained despite the fact that very few companies have been greatly encouraged by the 40 per cent investment allowance'. One can readily understand the fear that exists on either side of the House for future economic recovery under this Government if this is the impact that the outstanding feature of its program has had. 
The logic behind the Treasurer's defence of the investment allowance runs as follows: Additional capital investment will stimulate higher production and employment which will in turn make a higher standard of living possible. His case for the allowance being worth while depends on this basic assumption. If on the other hand the sequence of events is that consumer confidence rises and this generates an increased demand for goods and services which requires higher production for its satisfaction, higher production will mean higher employment with little new capacity when the rate of capacity utilisation is low. If it is not, then additional investment is stimulated. The investment decision is the last link in the chain, the first is a rise in consumer confidence. I refer honourable members to an article by Katona and Strumpel in the January edition of the journal  Challenge  which demonstrates for the United States and West German economies that 'consumer confidence, not business investment, is the leading clue to fluctuations in the economy, and consumer confidence is closely tied to the faith in Government'. 
This Government has ignored the overseas experience in its approach to cutting government spending and levels of deficit financing, so it is perhaps hoping for a little too much for it to appreciate the point made. But the fact remains that the experience elsewhere in the world is that the impetus for recovery must come from the consumption sector. The investment allowance then becomes simply a gratuitous handout, and one of considerable magnitude. It erodes the tax base enormously. It closes off other options for government disastrously. It is just too expensive. The implications for efficient resource allocation of a benefit of this type are of course immense. The 1973 Coombs Task Force review of the continuing expenditure policies of the previous government found that 'there is of course no necessary benefit to the nation from increasing investment on a subsidised basis'. In addition little evidence was found for the allowance being the effective counter cyclical tool the present Treasurer sees it as. The allowance may be thought of as little more than a means of reducing the general level of company taxation but one which spreads the tax load unevenly between capital intensive companies and all other companies. It is indeed strange that a government so committed to the efficiency of market forces should attempt to bring about an allocation of resources contrary to that which the market would achieve. 
At present the investment allowance obviously is not a significant determinant of the level of production and employment, nor is it an efficient means of lowering the burden of company taxation. The whole scheme is a result of the present Treasurer's preoccupation with that curious animal- the investment led recovery. It is part of the ideological package which has postponed the recovery the Australian economy could have expected in early 1976. It has as much foundation in fact as the Government's assertions that excessive government spending has been a major contributor to the present recession, as much validity as the Government's misguided and dangerous obsession that cuts in government expenditure are necessary for economic recovery. It appears that $500m to $600m of government revenue will be forgone for no good purpose on this investment allowance. It will be well to remember this $600m when the Treasurer announces the expenditure cuts tomorrow. One can feel only sympathy for those industries which placed their trust in this Government and thought that the allowance would apply to them only to find at the last minute that it would not. 
The hiring industry has a valid grievance. Much of their business is done in competition with leasing firms. Under this legislation they are automatically disadvantaged. It does not matter whether or not hiring may in fact lead to a better resource allocation than leasing; this Bill designates that on a cost basis hiring is more efficient than leasing- lessees get the investment allowance, hirers do not. This Government pretends to champion small business but when it found that the costs of its investment scheme were getting embarrassingly out of hand small business was sacrificed in the interest of big business. There is a considerable stockpile of high quality low priced used plant and equipment in overseas countries which could have been of considerable use to small business, but second hand plant is exempt from the allowance. I mention these instances not as a plea for a wider investment allowance but simply to point out the two-faced and inconsistent nature of the Government's measures and to illustrate that its priority lies not with the interests of small business but with those of their bigger brothers. Incidentally I have just mentioned what might have been imported into this country. It is worth while dwelling for a moment on the thought that when the investment allowance is used it may be used to a greater extent on imported plant which will not generate employment in this country, and generating employment was a rationale given for the investment allowance. 
The Opposition argues that what is necessary to bring about economic revival is an increase in consumer confidence and hence in demand generally. Direct action to stimulate demand is necessary and government expenditure has a role to play. The cutting of government expenditure is certainly not the right approach. The economic debate in this country has been stifled by the public and media acceptance of the Government's false premise about economic recovery being dependent on expenditure cutbacks. Without endorsing a massive increase in expenditure as a solution to the problem, the Opposition will continue to argue against cuts in government expenditure at this time and will endeavour to demonstrate to the Australian people that the Liberal-National Country Party Government is virtually alone amongst world governments in taking this action of cutting government expenditure. 
The business community itself obviously realises the problems that arise for the private sector when a government acts as this one has done in relation to expenditure cuts. The number of false economies that arise when blanket and unthinking assaults on public sector spending are made are, of course, many. I mention just one of particular interest to the manufacturing sector. The Associated Chamber of Manufactures has described the Federal Department of Industry and Commerce as being 'understaffed and incapable of drawing up progressive policies for manufacturing industry'. Surely a little less ideology and a little more economic good sense would prevent the exacerbation of such problems. At every turn the point that the public sector and the private sector must work together for economic recovery seems to escape the LiberalNational Country Party Government. The public sector must be allowed to play a true supporting role to private enterprise. It must not opt out. I repeat that it must not, as this Government seems intent on making it, pursue only a diminished sideline role. 
I now turn to the special depreciation provisions. The Government foreshadowed the abolition of the double depreciation scheme for new plant introduced in 1974-75 when it spoke of the introduction of the investment allowance. However, the Treasurer has omitted in this case also to clear up the loose ends. The greatest fault with any scheme arises when it discriminates between participants and non-participants in a purely arbitrary fashion. Some people who had sufficient faith in Australia ordered equipment before 1 January 1976. If that equipment cannot be installed by 30 June of this year they will get neither the investment allowance nor the double depreciation. It seems a little unfair that if benefits of this nature are to be given, those with intrinsic faith, who ordered before 1 January 1976, should be exempted. In the past there has been provision to protect people who had ordered equipment before the legislation was changed. Why not in this case? It does not augur well for the future of equitable wealth distribution in Australia if this Government cannot even manage internal equity in cases like this one. 
In short, on this section of the investment allowance and double depreciation, the Labor Opposition deplores the promises that were made during the election campaign, during their grab for power. Those promises are ineffectual now in getting the economy moving. They are unfair and inequitable in their application and have brought hardship to many who find that their expectations cannot be met. When the economy does get moving this investment allowance will be chaotically expensive and will close off many other options. However, the Government has a mandate for what it has done. Many have acted on that mandate. It would be impractical for the Opposition to seek the removal of the specificclauses, despite all the faults we see in them, at the Committee stage. 
The next principal section to which I turn relates to home mortgage interest deductions. I turn my attention to clause 1 1 which concerns home mortgage interest claims and I give notice that the Opposition intends opposing this clause not only at this stage in the second reading debate but also at the Committee stage of the Bill. Nowhere in the election platform of the Liberal and National Country parties is there any hint that when those parties spoke of supporting the home interest loans scheme they would be doing so in the way in which they have done in this Bill. They have no mandate for this outrage. There is no consistency at all between what is being done here and what was said during the election campaign. One wonders how many electors in seats that swung narrowly to the Government on 13 December would have cast their votes as they did if they had knowledge of this measure. 
For some people it will mean an additional $9 a week in tax. It stands strangely with the Government's previously stated intention to return income to individuals. Remember that we are not talking about an effect on high income families. The cut off point for eligibility for the deduction ensures that only people with ordinary salaries are affected. We may glean something of the Government's scale of priorities from its attitude in this matter. The lack of notice- only 2 to 3 months- given by the Government of the drastic measures which this change contains can only add to the hardship endured by a significant number of people. Would it not have been more reasonable for a concerned government to extend the home mortgage interest claim to at least June 1978 when the taxpayer did not receive any home savings grant in the meantime? There will be people who will be denied the tax claim although they did not receive a benefit under earlier home grants legislation. 
I would now like to mention some of the problems associated with the ' first home ' requirement in this part of the legislation- problems to which the Government has made no attempt to turn its mind. The eligibility for the deduction will apparently cease if a person is forced to move from his first home. No provision has been made for those people forced to move to retain employment- for example, those under compulsory transfer by an employer to a distant location; those whose employer has shifted to a distant location; and those whose present employer has had to close down and for whom no suitable local alternative employment is available. I know that my colleague the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  will be entering into this debate and will be talking about this aspect of the Bill so I will not say anything more than repeat that we of the Opposition strongly oppose this retrograde step of removing the present provisions relating to home mortgage loan interest deductions. This attitude is included in our second reading amendment. We shall press it further at the Committee stage. 
I now turn to another aspect of the Bill concerning convertible notes. The measures in clauses 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 give effect to the Government's vague election commitment to business to do something about convertible notes. The Opposition is relieved to find that the Government's midsummer madness of last December stopped short of promising a return to the situation concerning convertible notes which operated prior to 1960. In effect the amendments in clauses 12 to 16 do not alter the prevailing situation to any great degree. They virtually clarify standard practices which have operated since 1970. The fact remains, though, that this does allow the forfeiture of some government revenue and, as such, is a subsidy to certain classes of business. Little justification has been given for this subsidy as a means of achieving more efficient resource allocation and, as such, it has a similar import for efficiency in allocation as the investment allowance. However, there is a mandate. It does not go very far in this measure. Not a lot of revenue is forgone, so we shall not press the attitude at the Committee stage. 
Finally, in relation to the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill, I want to say something about company tax instalments. This clause validates the deferral of the company tax instalment due in early 1976 and also defers the 3 instalments payable during 1976-77. 1 might add that not much publicity has been given to the fact that these instalments are to be deferred next financial year. The Opposition does not oppose this part of the measure but neither is it carried away with its effectiveness as a tool of economic recovery. One would imagine it making very little difference to large companies except perhaps giving them trouble as they attempt to borrow during the seasonal liquidity rundown as all instalments are paid. On the other hand, small businesses may find some benefit in the measure, although they seem to have been left by the wayside in most of the Government's other measures and particularly in this legislation which we are discussing. Of course, measures such as these will operate only at the margin. As I pointed out earlier, business incentives are useless without a sustained recovery in consumer demand. The Government's policies relating to Government spending show that the coalition parties do not realise this. 
So much for the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill. We are at the second reading stage of 2 other Bills in this cognate debate. I would like to say something about them. The Superannuation Amendment Bill (No. 2) is merely one which makes consequential changes to the definitions of 'Commonwealth securities' and 'public securities' in the Superannuation Act 1976. It is consequential upon the 30-20 rule changes in the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill which I have just been discussing. The Opposition does not oppose the 30-20 changes. Similarly it does not oppose the consequential changes in this other Bill. 
Lastly I turn to the Income Tax (International Agreements) Amendment Bill. As the Treasurer has pointed out, the Australian Labor Government agreed to the substance of the new agreements and was involved in negotiations on them during its term of government. The Opposition does not oppose these measures and in fact welcomes them. As most honourable members will know the countries specifically involved in the agreements now given legislative effect are France and the Netherlands. 
The primary reason for tax agreements such as these is to avoid double taxation. Most countries, including Australia, subject to tax the local source income of residents and non residents and basically all the foreign source income of residents. In the absence of relief from double taxation, a resident of one country deriving income from a second would be taxed by both countries. There is probably fairly general agreement that a state of double taxation is not equitable, that taxpayers who are subject to it contribute more revenue than they really should be obliged to do. Opinions differ, however, as to how relief from double taxation can be provided. It is the purpose of such agreements as these in this Bill to arrive at mutually satisfactory arrangements between the signatory countries. I repeat that in this particular case they are the Netherlands and France. It may be just as well to warn at this stage that if Fraser federalism really gets carried away with itself we may need double tax agreements between the Australian government and the State governments. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I believe I have now covered all the relevant and important points in these 3 Bills which are the subject of this cognate debate and have explained why the Labor Opposition has moved its amendment at the second reading stage and why we shall be pursuing some of the subjects of the debate at the Committee stage. 
-I want to address myself to clause 5 of the Bill which deals with the tax borne by.winemakers. Before doing so I know I will have your indulgence,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to say that although the Opposition moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill and because we have now come to some arrangement with the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  as to the timing for discussion of this Bill we did not divide the House on that amendment and take the time of the House in sitting in division-time which could be used by honourable members on both sides of the House in devoting themselves to the provisions of the Bill. We are disappointed that one or two speakers from both sides of the House who wanted to speak in the second reading debate were not able to do so, due, I believe, to a misunderstanding. 
I want to draw the attention of the Committee in particular to the broken promise which is given expression in clause 5 of the Bill. During the second reading debate we heard the suggestion from one honourable member on the Government side- I believe it was the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)-  that indeed some greater benefit than was promised by the previous Labor Government has been given to winemakers by this Liberal-National Country Party Government. As I said earlier in the debate, that is hardly so. The statement made by Premier Dunstan on 7 July last year in which he indicated what changes would be made by the Australian Labor Government in relation to section 31a of the principal Act and in relation to the valuation of the stocks of winemakers has, as we see it, been taken up almost all the way in the measure which is currently before the Committee. The only difference is that the deferred taxes can now be paid in 8 years instead of the 7 years which was announced by Premier Dunstan, after consultation with the then Prime Minister Whitlam. I believe that the winemakers of Australia were misled during the last Federal election into believing that section 31a of the Principal Act would be reintroduced by way of amendment to the taxation legislation before the House. They were misled by a speech made by the present Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on 19 June 1975 when he indicated to Australia that indeed that section would be reintroduced- that the special benefit given to winemakers by section 3 1a in the valuation of their stock would be reintroduced and that they would again be allowed this special benefit. As it turned out, this was quite misleading. I believe that winemakers deserve an apology from the Government for misleading them at that stage. 
I have been advised that one of the large private winemakers in Australia went so far as to suggest to its workers during the last Federal election campaign-I am referring to McWilliam 's Wines Pry Ltd and I believe it is in its interest that I bring this matter into the openthat they would be sacked if a Liberal and National Country Party Government was not returned to office because the coalition parties were making promises relating to section 31a. This belief is now so widespread in the community that many people of Labor persuasion are not buying McWilliam 's wines. If that is not so and if 
McWilliam 's was not making those threats during the election campaign then I believe it is in McWilliam 's interest to make a statement to that effect so that their sales of wine are not affected. 
The point is that the country was misled and the winemakers were misled. Section 31a provided this special benefit. There were some reasons for that special benefit, because small winemakers- of red wines in particular- have to hold stock on low working capital. But it is not a situation that is not shared by other industries. Earlier in the debate I suggested that the timber industry is another industry where certain timbers have to be held, for maturity reasons, for quite some time and a lot of working capital is locked up in the holding of that stock. Therefore, it was discrimination in favour of winemakers. I have gone on public record as saying that if the decision making had been in my hands at the time the alteration was made, I would have gone ahead with this alteration because it was, I believed, a discrimination which should not continue. But I had hoped that I would have been able to arrange for the forgiving of all of the deferred taxes that were related to this change. That did not happen. Both the present Government and the previous Government decided that it should not happen so we now have these provisions in which the winemakers are given 8 years in which to pay their deferred taxes. 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  gave the impression that some other benefits were given during this transitional period which were not promised by the Labor Government. That is not so. All the other benefits- one relates to the fact that the deferred tax element should not be more than 10 per cent of total tax payable in one year- had been promised before and had been announced. I repeat: The only improvement given by these coalition parties is that winemakers have 8 years rather than 7 years in which to pay deferred taxes. 
I deplore the deception. I deplore the fact that winemakers allegedly told their staff that the Liberal and National Country Parties would be of great benefit to them if returned to government. That has not happened. I deplore that this is another area in which people have been misled into voting for these parties which are now in government. 
-I enter this particular part of the Committee deliberations to support the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite).  I hope that he was in the House during my second reading debate efforts last night when I drew attention to the very points that he was raising. I have risen to me feet again only to say that I was disappointed that the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric 
Robinson), did not devote himself to the very real problems raised by the honourable member for Dawson. I repeat the point that there have been good Australians who have taken very courageous investment decisions prior to 1 January 1976-prior to the extra benefits offering through the investment allowance- who, nevertheless, will not have their plants installed by 30 June this year. They will miss out on both of the benefits available in the tax legislation. They miss out on double depreciation because clause 8, which we are now considering, removes that right from them. They also will miss out on the investment allowance because, anticipating the debate, clause 10 ensures that the investment allowance is applicable only to plant where the decision has been made after 1 January. 
-First of all, let me assure the House that I will in no way take 95 minutes to complete my speech. It is a tradition of the Parliament that the person leading for the Opposition should be given the same time as is given to the Minister making a statement. The explanation of the period of time contained in the motion is that this time was taken by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to make his statement last Thursday night. 
The Liberal and National Country Party Government is deliberately continuing a policy of high unemployment in order to test an outdated economic theory and to satisfy a false ideology. This is the only objective interpretation of the Treasurer's statement on fiscal policy decisions which he read to this House last Thursday night. I believe that he and all who follow him should stand condemned for the unnecessary hardships they are causing so many in the Australian community. 
The Government's economic theory in layman's language goes like this: There are 3 shares of the cake- the householders' share, which is mainly the wage earners' share, the share for government and the share for business. The real trouble with our economy is that the business sector has been squeezed too hard, with the consequence that it is not investing. Therefore there is stagnation. The only way to do something about this is to squeeze the other 2 sectors. The best means of doing this is to mutilate the government sector, keep credit tight, create or maintain high levels of unemployment, hope for a resulting compliant trade union movement and then, by submission in national wage cases and by other means, hope for a reduction in real wages. This Government seems to think that by some magical means the result will then be a lowering of inflation and a taking up of the slack by this wizard known as the private sector. 
The beauty of this magnificent theory for Liberals and their National Country Party allies is that it also satisfies their conservative ideology. That ideology is that government is bad and to the greatest extent possible must be dismantled. The vast improvements to the lives of so many Australians brought about by the intervention of government in Health schemes, social security programs, welfare housing and so on are ignored. There is so much that is false about this ideology that it is difficulty to know where any comments should begin. However, let me first state a point of agreement. The rate of return in the business sector is too low. In a mixed economy like ours, where the private sector is responsible for the employment of three-quarters of the work force, it is important to encourage firms to invest again. For that investment to be maintained, the rate of return will have to be improved on the profits which are being obtained in many sectors at the present time. If we are to achieve a sizable reduction in the number of our fellow citizens unemployed, and we must achieve this, then investment must be encouraged- so a higher rate of return must be obtained. 
But the Australian Labor Party Opposition rejects the notion that a policy of creating unemployment and beating the trade union movement into submission is tenable in this day and age. It is just not workable. It is socially damaging, leaving unhealable scars on our community. It is out of date. The Phillips curve just does not apply now. We cannot trade off higher unemployment for lower inflation and greater investment. The free market economy does not apply, if it ever did. Big and powerful unions are as dominant in the determination of wages as big and powerful corporations are dominant in the determination of prices. It is a new ball game, and we need a government which understands this ball game. We do not have such a government now. 
The Australian Labor Opposition believes that we should gently but firmly spend our way out of this present stagflation situation. We believe in the middle way-to quote my friend the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  in his Budget Speech last August- 'a line along which we can achieve sound and sustainable growth while at the same time bringing inflation down gradually over perhaps two to three years'. I know that at least one of my colleagues, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  would suggest that the life of a Parliament in these difficult economic times should be 4 years in order to achieve this sort of economic management. 
Let us not become hooked on theories which suggest that there is something evil in deficits in themselves. There is not. It depends on the economic circumstances. While there is an underemployment of people and other resources and while the private sector is not taking up the slack with its investment decisions, governments must fill those gaps with public spending. Certainly there must be restraint in that public spending. It cannot be limitless. To the greatest extent it must be in a form that can be turned off as soon as the private sector gets moving. Otherwise we shall ricochet back into the gross demand inflationary situation of 1973 and 1974 inherited by Labor from the McMahon Government. This serious situation had been caused by an under valuation of our currency in 1972 and an over expansive, politically attractive, buying the votes LiberalNational Country Party Budget in that year. Preferably the restrained spending this year should be in productive areas. We need improved public institutions - better mechanics- to bring about this greater public spending in the productive areas. In the meantime there is no reason why we should not be using what we have in the Department of Construction and the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development to get on with the task of putting into production unused capacity in the building industry of this country. 
I do not overestimate the danger of allowing the money supply to increase at too great a rate. I do not quibble at the present targets of 1 1 per cent to 13 per cent growth. But I do believe that with careful money market management this can be achieved without increased interest rates and without dampening down the level of economic activity in this country to the present disastrous level. I mentioned earlier a false ideology which is causing this situation. I can do no better than quote a  Notes on the News  talk 10 days ago by a friend of mine at Sydney University, Professor Ted Wheelwright. It may well be me talking, as my experiences and attitudes are the same as those which he expressed. I am pleased to read this piece of economic history into the  Hansard  record of our nation. Professor Wheelwright said: 
It is now clear that no real economic recovery is in sight. This is the reason for the mini-Budget, or the economic statement, as the Government prefers to call it, on which much midnight oil is now being burned in Canberra. When the Prime Minister of a country tries to talk its economy out of a recession by exhorting consumers to spend, as  Mr Fraser  did a month ago, the situation must be quite serious. Ministers return from business lunches and report business disillusion with the Government 's economic policy. 
Industrialists in manufacturing industry report that it is stagnant, and farmers in substantial areas of the rural sector are telling the Government that this year their real income will be lower than it has been for some considerable time. The traditional signs of economic crisis in the rural sector are with us: The destruction of livestock, some form of Government help to impoverished small farmers, and severe unemployment in country towns. 
Hence, a week ago  Mr Fraser  told Parliament that (I quote) 'Examinations that will take place over the weekend will lead to a significant statement by my honourable colleague the Treasurer before we rise for the winter recess', (unquote) 
This means within the next 3 weeks, for the winter recess normally begins on 3 June. Hence the flurries in Canberra, the midnight oil, and this week of speculation. A lot of the speculation is about further cuts in Government expenditure, for the Fraser Government is ideologically committed to a sizeable reduction in the public sector, so that the private sector will expand. Or so the argument goes; true, although there is also the concept that by reducing the deficit this will reduce the money supply and hence inflation, there has now crept into the debate a crude notion that the private sector is 'good', and the public sector is 'bad'. 
And there are the other signs of recession, senior public servants (preferably retired and knighted) who wield things called axes, which will ' cut ' or ' prune ' public expenditure- 
The metaphor is never spelled out; the horticulturalist knows that to axe a tree is to kill it and to prune too severely can result in stunted growth and no fruit or flowers for several years. Professor Wheelwright went on: 
These ways of thinking have a tendency to harden into dogmas, which can do irreparable harm to the Australian economy, which does have significant differences from other economies. 
The dangers of uncritically importing the currently fashionable ideologies of cutting or otherwise emasculating the public sector to save the private patient, were brought home to me over the last couple of weeks when I had a few business lunches in quick succession. One was with an advertising executive, who complained that because of a cut in Government expenditure his agency was virtually on half time, and he was on half pay. This did not figure in any statistics, and I bought his lunch, being in a secure position in the public sector. 
Another was an architect, who complained of cuts in Government expenditure which had really curtailed the demand, and hence the income, of architects and town planners. 
I believe that even honourable members of the Government side have had experiences like this, as I have had. He went on to say: 
The third was a printer in Brisbane who had to lay off staff because of a cut in expenditure on the Australian Government Publishing Service, which has been doing a lot of subcontracting to small private printers. The fourth was a tutor whom we could not pay to mark essays because of cuts in Government expenditure on education. 
Perhaps more than any other advanced country in the capitalist world economy, Australia has been built on the public sector. It began as a prison farm, depending on what then might have been called 'handouts' from London, with 'officer Sludgers' collecting their dole in the form of rum currency. It has a long history of public sector activity; each colony had to develop its own economy, and its own service to the community. It had to build up its own public service, its own engineers for roads and bridges, ports and harbours and so on. Each colony had to provide the railways, the educational system, the hospitals, and often the brickworks and the meatworks to house and feed the people. 
The result, today, is that one person out of every four in Australia is employed in the public sector, in various forms, such as public service, education, railways, electricity supply, health services, airlines, banking, insurance, telecommunications, broadcasting, housing commissions, CSIRO, public works, not to mention police forces, the judiciary, courts and the armed forces. 
In terms of capital investment, for the last quarter century at least, one-third of all gross fixed domestic capital formation has been in the public sector- Commonwealth and State. Thus, one-third of all investment dollars have been spent on such things as irrigation works, roads, railways, airports, hospitals, schools and universities. 
The nations economy has been geared to this kind of economic activity; without a large public sector, which helps to knit the Australian economy and society together by performing essential functions which do not make a profit, there would nave been massive unemployment long ago, Canberra would not exist, and the nation would have collapsed. The uncritical acceptance of an alien economic ideology, formulated in the reactionary enclaves of the mid-west of a country- the U.S.A.- whose economic history is so different from ours, can only spell disaster for the Australian economy. 
It is not surprising but ironic that John Singleton, advertising executive and leading light of the so-called Workers 
Party, is quoted as saying: 'It's no good Fraser saying get out and spend; we're on the Titanic'. 
Incidentally, Ted Wheelwright entitled that talk, 'How to Ruin the Economy Without Really Trying'-and sub-titled it, 'Public Sector "Bad", Private Sector "Good" '. This is the context in which to examine the Treasurer's latest statement. It expresses a philosophy which is totally alien to that of the Australian Labor Party. A great many people in this country may have been talked by our conservative opponents into believing that there was something bad about the public sector, but we believe that many of them are already realising the mistakes they have made. We want more expenditure in the public sector than the Liberal and National Country Party Government is allowing for. We believe that that expenditure should be restrained and, as I said earlier, selective. In particular, it should be in productive areas which will mean the use of resources which are not now being used, and it should be in areas where the expenditure can be terminated reasonably easily- when the rest of the economy gets moving. 
We believe that if the Australian Labor Government Budget of last August was allowed to run its course, without the damaging jawboning for the need for belt-tightening, without the psychologically counter-productive economic statement after economic statement and without the unemployment creating expenditure cuts- first of all $360m in 1975-76, now a dramatic $2600m in 1976-77- we would have found by now an increase in the confidence of consumers, resulting in them spending. We would have found a response to this from businesses with their making an increased number of decisions to invest and we would have found business investment confidence enhanced by the absence of the deterrent created by so many of the private sector contracts being cancelled because of cuts in the public sector government spending. In short, we would have found an increase in production and a marked decrease in unemployment. Instead of that, by its wrong attitudes and its wrong policies, the Liberal and National Country Party Government has created an increase in seasonally adjusted unemploymentand this statement shows it is persisting in this policy. 
In our Labor scenario, with a continuation of our policies of the last Budget, the increase in production would have led to an increase in productivity. We would have sat down with the unions of this country and explained that initially this productivity increase must go to the business sector to allow an increase of return to that sector. This increase, as has already been explained, is essential for that successful fight against inflation and for that continuing new investment to lift us completely out of the present economic stagnation. 
We welcome the forthcoming talks between the Government and the unions. Close harmony between the 3 sectors- government, business and householders- is essential for the economic prosperity of this country. To date, there has been too little of this consultation. To our cost, we Australians have inherited the British tradition of distrust. Labor has been in power for too short a period since Federation for this distrust to be broken. We are pledged to break it. I believe we can, when given the opportunity, achieve- harmony and concensus at least to the extent of the Scandinavians and even perhaps the West Germans. Of course there will always be some conflict of interest. The Scandinavians owe their great harmony to their long line of social democratic governments. The present Government can never match what Labor can achieve in this sphere. There is little doubt that a social compact with the unions is required, but it can be achieved only in the right atmosphere. Blundering intervention in national wage cases seeking to reduce the real returns of wage and salary earners is not the proper atmosphere for such talks. Nor are economic statements which announce a cut in the standard of living of so many Australians by the impositions of such measures as a Medibank levy and a reduction in the social wage of householders by the cutting of government spending. 
Support for wage indexation in the present economic circumstances would have been a proper atmosphere in which to have such talks. The industrial labour movement needs such an atmosphere of goodwill to prevail if it is to give up for a while its claims to a share of increased productivity to stimulate investments in order to reduce unemployment. I make a further point about these talks between government and unions. In future they must include the employers, they must be continuing and they must be at many levels. For instance, to illustrate my point in the union area only, it is not good enough merely to include the executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. For the future economic prosperity of this country there is a vital necessity for there to be a greater understanding of the needs and limitation of our economy at the level of State Trades and Labor Council executives and members. So this is Labor's scenario: Create consumer confidence and allow governments to spend more even at the expense of an increased deficit- with this will come increased production- and make a social compact with the unions to allow the increased productivity initially to stimulate investment in order to sustain the economic recovery and thus reduce unemployment. Labor's number one aim is to reduce that unemployment. 
It would be wrong to assume from what I have said that the Australian Labor Party believes that all our problems can be cured by massive increases in government spending. What we are saying is that turn-arounds in government spending are of crucial importance in stabilisation policy and that this is not the time for government deflationary moves. The rest of the world would seem to agree with this view. We are interested in efficiency in government expenditure, but deplore random slashes without concern for functional impacts as a means of achieving efficiency. 
I have in previous speeches dwelt at length on the campaign this Government has waged against the deficit and the pains it has taken to convince the electorate that all and any government spending cuts are good. This hard sell, when coupled with the Prime Minister's ideological small government line, takes on greater significance. If the electorate accepts that all government spending cuts are right, then the Prime Minister's attempts to reduce the public sector spending will be that much easier. Unfortunately, by falsely attempting to demonstrate an inexorable link between reduced government spending and economic recovery, the Prime Minister is clouding the real issue. 
If the Prime Minister has an ideological commitment to small government, both State and Commonwealth, then let him get out and sell that view. Let there be debate on the real issuethe extent of the provision of public services. Do not let the issue be dressed up as something it is not- an economic imperative. The people of Australia must be given the opportunity of seeing the Prime Minister's small government message for what it is- a reduction in the number of goods and services the people receive from government. It would appear the people of New South Wales have realised what is in store as the Government's assault on the public sector continues. We must examine closely what the Prime Minister means when he says 'less government' and attempts to imply that this will make us all better off. 
If the Australian Government could manage to save itself the salary bill of every department and still get its programs done, the result would still be a Budget deficit. So less government must obviously mean less for people who depend on government.  Senator Hubert  Humphrey recently summed up the facts of less government when he said: 
This business of less government, this slogan of 'Less is More' is a shoddy, phoney business. Don't buy the phrase. Take a look at the specifics. Take a look at what they mean. Less for whom? Less for the people who can least afford to suffer the pains of having less. 
The real message of the Prime Minister is less government- even fewer telephones for constituents of Country Party members. He plans to return economic power to individuals. Unfortunately, only priviliged individuals can benefit from this plan in a complex modern society. The Government must be there to prevent exploitation of those who lack the advantages others have had bestowed upon them. The Fraser Government's plans are ones of taking from the have-nots to give to the haves. But not only is this Government prepared to bring about a drop in individuals' social wage by removing government services. It goes before the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and argues for a drop in real wages as well. This is an argument which sits very strangely beside the pleas of the Prime Minister to- consumers to go out and buy. Truly, we are faced with policies of confusion. 
As the economic statement before the House is concerned to a great extent with government expenditure, I have centred my discussions so far upon this aspect of the Government's economic policies. However, it would be remiss of me not to say more on other aspects of the policies this Government has for the economy. In its submission to the national wage and wage indexation hearing for April, in a section which goes under the title 'Government Policies for Recovery and Inflation Control', the Government propounds its arguments. It argues that inflation control is the key to recovery and that inflationary expectations must be dampened for this to occur. It does not spell out how this will occur or to what extent it will allow the economy to run down and unemployment to rise to dampen these expectations. It appears to be trying to control demand inflation, which assuredly does not exist, but says wage cost rises are of major importance. It even argues for real wage cuts. But what of its wages policy? The  Australian Financial Review  of 23 April called it 'puzzling'. It is that and more. The actions of this Government in proposing impractical fiddles to the consumer price index and its damaging arbitrary decision to oppose the 6.4 per cent wage flow-on, have brought a climate of confrontation into the Australian industrial scene- something which is not needed if wage restraint, so successfully gained under Labor, is to continue. It is difficult to imagine an economic package which leaves 57 per cent of wage earners worse off acting as the magic catalyst of wage restraint. The Arbitration Commission has twice indicated that it believes the Government's assessment of the economy has been insufficiently substantiated. Need any further comment really be made? I repeat: Truly we are suffering a government which does not know whether it is coming or going in this economic sphere. 
To summarise what I have been saying, the Australian economy is stagnating unnecessarily. The Hayden Budget and other economic policies introduced in the second half of 1975 were appropriately contributing both to slowing down the rate of inflation and to stimulating productive activity. Since the election, conservative ideology has distorted policy and retarded recovery. Over-concern about the rate of growth of the money supply led to the interest rate on new savings bonds being set at too high a level. The investment allowance mis-allocates funds to the private sector. The Government's interventions in the wage indexation cases, apparently aimed at reducing real wages, have lacked sufficient concern for the well-being of wage earners. But most important has been the unrelenting pressure to contract the public sector. The Government seems to think of the economy as a space made up of public and private sections, so that if the public share is reduced the private share will increase. But of course the economy is more dynamic and complex than this. Even given the Government's own priorities, all parts of the economy need to be stimulated for a sustained recovery to take place. 
When in Opposition the Prime Minister said often that confidence would return to the private sector immediately a Liberal-National Country Party government was elected. This has not happened. Businessmen are rational. They will invest only when existing capacity is inadequate to meet total demand, and total demand for goods and services depends not only on investors, but also on consumers, governments and demand for exports. Each of these areas influences the level of economic activity. But this Government insists on cutting spending- or at least that is what it says is being done. Many of the so-called cuts described in the Treasurer's statement were illusory. I will return to that point in a moment. Saying that public expenditure is to be reduced has a depressing psychological impact on the private sector. People in industries directly dependent on public spending will anticipate reduced turnover and so reduce orders, causing effects in other parts of the economy. Real spending cuts will obviously reduce total community spending, causing lower levels of employment and utilisation of capacity in directly affected industries and indirect effects on the rest of the economy. Obviously employment in the public sector will decline or grow only slowly, and unemployment in the building and construction industry will increase as a result of the decisions announced in the Treasurer's statement. 
The Treasurer's statement is too vague, too lacking in information for us to be able to estimate its overall impact accurately. It looks as though the effect will be increased unemployment as a result of both reduced total spending and reduced expectations that spending will expand. The Government's priorities are mistaken. The Treasurer said that inflation is the greatest threat to the long term recovery of the economy. It is obvious that rapid inflation harms not only the economy but also the whole structure of society. It is certainly important to reduce the rate of growth of prices. But nearly 300 000 people are unemployed; that is, nearly 300 000 people who are actively looking for jobs cannot find them. It is easy for the safely employed to neglect the enormous damage this is doing to the people involved. I think that the principal priority in economic policy at present should be in dealing with unemployment. If increasing employment opportunities became the focus of economic policy, a different package of measures would be required. Recovery of the level of economic activity would be the principal aim with the control of inflation a complementary goal. Caution with the money supply, personal tax indexation and increased child endowment might well be part of that package, but so too would be the continuation and expansion of the effective expenditure programs begun by the Labor Government. Care not to increase indirect taxes would be another element in such a package, for this would contribute to achieving both aims. In fact, let me place on record my view that it would be far preferable for the economic health of this nation if investment allowances were abolished in return for a commensurate cut in such indirect taxes as sales tax. 
Now let me devote the rest of my speech to some specific comments on the Treasurer's statement. Mostly I have left this task to my colleagues who will follow me in this debate. But I do want to make these points briefly: Firstly, there is much rhetoric but little explanation of how the measures are going to contribute to reducing inflation, and there is no description of how they will effect the level of unemployment. Secondly, the statement describes the normal process of budget preparation as a major breakthrough in responsible government. This is nonsense. Every year each department prepares its request for funds on the basis of what it can responsibly spend on continuing new programs in the absence of a financial constraint. These requests are then cut by Cabinet on the advice of Treasury to fit in with available resources. This happens every year under every government. It is unusual to publicise this process, although I believe on this occasion, after all the ballyhoo that has gone on about the need to cut government expenditure in early months, that those forward estimates would have been at their bone before the knife got to work. Thirdly, much of the statement is meaningless because it describes cuts from bids but often does not state the level either of the bid or of the planned allocation. 
Fourthly, it is an erratic statement with too much detail about some measures and too little about others, and the whole statement is excessively long, reducing its credibility. Fifthly, Labor welcomes the increase in child endowment. We would have done this ourselves. We had had position papers on the subject since 1971. However, we delayed implementation until the recommendations of the Henderson poverty inquiry were made known. These recommendations were not made to our Government until last August which was too late for our last Budget. However, my sixth point is that we deplore the fact that these improvements to child endowment have been carried out at the expense of so many. We read in the Press that about 57 per cent of all taxpayers will be worse off as a result of the new tax system of family allowances, tax indexation and the Medibank levy. The figure allegedly contained in a confidential Treasury document confirms our own calculations on the subject that over 50 per cent of taxpayers in that taxable income area around average weekly earnings will be worse off. This assessment ignores the increased taxes likely now to be imposed by States and local government. 
My seventh point is that the effect on the States of the economic package in the statement is serious. Their specific purpose grants have been cut enormously- for sewerage, for urban public transport, for hospitals, for water treatment and for education. They may be little worse off in the area of their general purpose grants in 1976-77 than they expected after the Premiers Conference, because the increase in taxes arising from the abolition of the rebates for children offsets the additional loss to revenue incurred from giving full indexation; but they will be decidedly worse off in future in relation to general grants as well as specific grants under the new revenue sharing formula, because the increases will not be as great as they were under the old formula. 
My eighth point is that similarly local government is left in dire straits by this LiberalNational Country Party Government in this economic package. Today's newspapers tell the sad story that all local government rates are likely to increase at least 5 per cent next financial year because of the Federal Government's package. The figure of $ 140m for local government announced in this statement is just not enough. Listed as a minimum requirement was $176m, but to add to local government troubles there is the axing of funds available through the Australian Assistance Plan and other specific purpose grant programs. 
My ninth point is that the lesser amounts in specific grants to the States for hospitals are well short of last year's figure in real terms; for education, well short of recommendations by the education commissions; for railways, even the Adelaide-Crystal Brook line is questioned, as is the standard gauge program generally which seems now to be a thing of the past for this government; for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, slashed by over $400m, and so on. This is bound to mean in addition to a reduction in the quality of life of Australians either an imposition of State income taxes or an increase in State indirect taxes. How on earth can any government claim to be generous in giving tax indexation when it forces on the people these State and local government imposts in addition to the Medibank levy? Let us contemplate what a counterproductive effect this is going to have on the wages front at a time when restraint is so badly needed. This exacerbates the danger to individual relations created by the decline in the social wage caused by so many cuts in government spending. 
My tenth point is that many of the areas in which cuts have been made will have a direct effect on reducing productivity at a time when an increase in productivity is so badly needed. In addition to a fair day's work in return for a fair day's pay, we want improved management and improved public investment to achieve this purpose of greater productivity. This will not happen by reducing the expenditure on transport and delaying the building of standard gauge railways, and so on. I wish I had time to say more about this increase in productivity as it relates to the Adelaide-Crystal Brook railway line. I know that my colleague, the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  who is in the chamber, wanted to speak in this debate and give more details of that but unfortunately the time of the debate is limited. 
My eleventh point is that the statement must not be allowed to pass without my mentioning Medibank. This will be under further discussion when the relevant Bills go through this Parliament over the next couple of days. Suffice it for me to say now that, apart from condemning the imposition of the levy, I regret deeply the creation of a 2-class system of health care in this country. 
My twelfth point is that there are some typical examples of Liberal-National Country Party parsimony in the effects of the announcements in this statement. The taxing of so many pensioners is to be deplored. So are the extra charges to be applied to so many old servicemen whose benefits from the Repatriation Department are being reduced. So is the miserable treatment applied to Aborigines. Any savings to this social expenditure now will be more than offset by the enormous increase in expenditure which will be required in future years because of the problems not being cured this year, because of lack of resources made available by this government now for Aborigines. Apart from the disgrace of it all- the lack of humanitarianism- it is just so short sighted. The Aborigine people will become increasingly bitter and this Government will be responsible for that. 
Lastly, I must mention overseas aid, although let it be known that I have a lot more I would have liked to have turned my attention to in this statement. The total appropriated for foreign aid by the Australian Labor Government in 1975-76 was $378.2m. This was an increase of $48.6m on previous years. Our political opponents, the coalition parties now in government, slashed this to $351m. They are now providing for 1976-77, thanks to some good lobbying by the churches and other aid organisations $400m, an increase of $49m on their relatively miserable previous year's figure but of only $22m on our Australian Labor Party Government's figure. In other words, their increase is only 6 per cent on that provided by the Australian Labor Party's Budget of last year. This is a decline in real terms when one takes into consideration an inflation rate of 13 per cent. And yet deceitfully the Treasurer's statement under the heading of  Foreign Aid  reads: 
Budgetary difficulties notwithstanding, the Government has decided on a 14 per cent increase in Australia's total overseas aid program in 1976-77. 
That is just not true. It is only 6 per cent on the figure appropriated last year. This is typical of so much that is misleading in this economic statement. One other area should be mentioned. If one adds up the details of the so-called figures reduced from the forward Estimates one gets nowhere near the $2,600m which the Treasurer alleges has been cut from those Estimates. This is one of the many things which breeds this aura, this atmosphere and this attitude in the community of a lack of confidence in this Government. 
In fact,  Mr Speaker,  in summarising I believe that the announcements of this statement are -of very serious consequence to Australians in a number of ways. Confusion has been created. Nobody knows the real cuts in government expenditure. Few know where they really stand with Medibank. This damage to public confidence has serious economic consequences. Further, the attitudes and policies of the LiberalNational Country Party Government as continued in the announcements in this statement have created a set-back to the steady economic recovery which was under way before this Government came to power. We have seen that this is so by examination of the seasonally adjusted unemployment figures. In addition, the cuts in government expenditure, apart from their effects on confidence and on deterring consumers from spending, are deliberately creating unemployment. More men and women would be employed and more resources would be in use if only more government contracts were let. 
Lastly, in summary, I draw attention to the lowering of the quality of life by the dismantling of sections of the public sector and by instituting 2 classes of health care, to the unnecessary penalties applied to large sections of the Australian community on modest incomes in reducing their take-home pay and to the increase in burdens on the States and local government- and thus on the people who pay State taxes and local government rates- in forcing more functions on those levels of government without providing the funds to carry out those functions. All in all, this Liberal-National Country Party Government in under 6 months of existence can be thoroughly ashamed of itself. 
-This Bill gives effect to an agreement made by our country to participate in the establishment of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Financial Support Fund. The agreement was signed in Paris on Wednesday, 9 April 1975- more than a year ago. Membership of the fund is open to all member countries of the OECD which becomes parties to the agreement. While in government the Australian Labor Party recognised the potential of this agreement and readily took part in it. In Opposition we are consistent and do not oppose this Bill. 
The need for the fund came out of a recognition of the potential balance of payments problems confronting major industrialised countries, members of the OECD, due to steep rises in oil prices. Fortunately the problems have not been as acute as was first thought but the fund may still be required to play a valuable support role. The fund cannot be looked on as a panacea for chronic balance of payments problems. For example, the problems faced by Great Britain and New Zealand in recent times would be outside the scope of the fund. However, the fund may be regarded as a useful financial facility available to help member countries temporarily finance balance of payments deficits. In providing this facility the fund will, hopefully, deter member countries from taking unilateral action which could hamper the free flow of international trade. In this way desirable checks to world production and employment may be diminished. 
As well as the particular arrangements made under this agreement, other important steps towards international co-operation in economic matters were taken during preliminary discussions. Significant steps were taken towards the industrialised nations realising that there individual prosperity depended upon mutual cooperation. Agreement was reached on general principles of responsible domestic budgetary policy. The aim of those principles is to ensure that recourse to the fund is restricted to problems in balance of payments over which the claimant countries have little control. The Opposition sees this movement towards co-operation in such matters as an important ingredient in this agreement. 
Finance for the fund is secured through quotas for individual members which determine their maximum financial liability and also the basis for their borrowing rights. Australia's quota is about $275m. However, as the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  pointed out in his second reading speech, the provisions of the fund agreement are drawn up in such a way that there is virtually no circumstance in which there could be a direct impact upon the Australian Budget. The fund members' liabilities are virtually guarantees to enable drawer countries to borrow on international markets. It is only if money were not available in the markets that Australia would make a direct contribution. That would then require budgetary appropriation and, of course, it would come through this Parliament. 
I would like to mention now something about borrowing guarantees. They will function in two modes. Firstly, the guarantee will be provided by individual members and the fund would be able to borrow its share of funds. Secondly, the fund itself would borrow on the collective guarantee of all members. A number of safeguards for guarantees is incorporated in the agreement. Members who receive loans will be required to follow policies consistent with the general principles of the fund. Decisions to grant loans up to a member's quota will require endorsement by a two-thirds majority of the governing committee on which all members will be represented. Loans above the quota will require higher majorities of the committee. 
Turning my attention now to the circumstances which made this fund necessary and the relevance of the fund to Australia's current economic problems, I point out that the Treasurer traced the path which followed the intervention by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries in the world oil market in 1973. In his second reading speech he correctly diagnosed that this intervention had considerable consequences for inflation in non-OPEC countries. Those problems reinforced those associated with the downturn in the international trade cycle and culminated in the most serious recession since the 1930s. Australia, as a vigorous participant in international trade, could not be isolated from the inflation and the recession. By far the biggest factor contributing to Australia's recession has been the international downturn. It is spurious to argue that Australia was saved from massive rises in oil prices through being dependent upon internal supplies and hence could be isolated from inflation and recession. The secondary effects of the rises in oil prices on our trading partners ensured that world recession did not escape Australia. 
It is important to keep the international situation in perspective, especially if we are to implement policies which will lift Australia out of the present recession. The OECD financial support fund will have a role to play in supporting recovery from the international slump. But it is important for those countries wishing to join in this recovery to recognise the role international forces will play. If the Australian Government bases its policies for recovery on false premises, then recovery must be delayed. If the Government continues to ignore the realities of the international economy and continues with its false and damaging assumptions that all of our problems may be sheeted home to Budget deficits, then Australia will miss out on an early return to prosperity. Cuts in government spending- we have been debating another lot of them today and we will continue to debate them after the debate on this Bill is completed- are not being used anywhere else in the world as a means of obtaining a recovery in the economic system. 
-The Minister for the Capital Territory interjected: 'What about in the United Kingdom?' He is not known for his economic expertise. If he were to study what is going on in the United Kingdom he would find out that the United Kingdom is merely looking very far ahead at forward estimates and has not in any way cut its level of government spending in the way that is being done here. This Government's* ideological obsessions have postponed and will continue to postpone recovery. The unfortunate situation may be reached where Australia slides further into recession and itself has to call upon the resources of the OECD support fund. I trust that this will not happen. 
I am delighted to take part in and lead for the Opposition in the debate on this Bill. I give notice that we support the Bill. I have had the pleasure of visiting the headquarters of the OECD in Paris, of visiting the Australian Ambassador to the OECD and of knowing some of the staff in our embassy to the OECD. It has also been my fortunate lot on 2 occasions to take part in debates in the Council of Europe in Strasbourg on the OECD 's annual report. It is fortuitous that on the 2 occasions that Australian parliamentarians have taken part in such a debate I happened to be in a position to be present. I was present firstly as a member of the Opposition in 1971 and then last year as a supporter of the Government. Knowing  Mr Van  Lennep, the SecretaryGeneral of the OECD, knowing the quality of the work of the OECD, knowing the valuable work that the Organisation does not only for our country but also for improving knowledge in the difficult art- or is it a science?- of economics for all countries of the world, but particularly member countries, it is good to see this further step being taken in setting up this financial support fund. I hope that fund resources will not be needed by our own country, but at least it is gratifying to see the international co-operation that has brought about the setting up of this fund. I support the Bill. 
I want to read into the  Hansard  record an article which appeared in the Catholic newspaper of South Australia, the  Southern Cross.  It was written a couple of months go by Father P. R. Wilkinson. I believe the sentiments of the article are admirable. It is headed 'To be unemployed is a social crime'. It reads: 
What kind of spirit makes a lynching mob out of respectable southern towns in the United States? 
Probably the same instincts that inspire Australians with jobs to put the boots into the unemployed. 
To be unemployed in the 1930s was a human tragedy. 
To be unemployed in the 1 970s is a disgrace. 
Worse, in fact. It is a social crime. 
That is a fair conclusion from the general complacency at the present levels of recorded unemployment- the highest since the Great Depression. 
Ask 10 people what is their first thought associated with 'unemployed'. 
These days it is a fair bet the commonest answer will be 'dole bludgers'. 
There seems to be conventional wisdom around the country that the unemployed are long-haired surfies who do not want to work and who deserve to suffer. 
What no-one seems to publicise much is the fact that the numbers of unemployed exceed job vacancies by 10 to one. 
Hard work in searching may find someone a job, but mathematically he has only beaten nine others back in the queue. 
For 90 per cent there is always no job. Who are the unemployed? Where are they? 
There are no unemployed up and down our street. There are no huts on the Torrens, no soup kitchens. They must be surfies. 
Everyone who reads this paper knows someone who really wanted work and went out and got it. The neighbor's boy or the nephew's friend. 
And it just shows if they really want work they can get it. 
We have all read about the employers who advertise for labor and get no-one. 
It all proves that we virtuous ones are working hard, being taxed out of existence to support bludgers like those longhairs up and down the streets. 
No wonder there are bloody-minded cheers every time a new Government obstacle is put in the way of the unemployed. 
That will make sure they get off their tails and get an honest day's work like the rest of us. 
Lynch another dole-bludger. 
From the sort of interjections we are hearing tonight this article sums up well the attitude of those on the Government side of the House. The article continues: 
The white poor of the United States Deep South lynched their Negroes because they all had their horror stories of Negroes who raped and killed and assaulted and stole and lied. 
And that shows you that Negroes are all sub-human and deserve to be lynched. 
The question is which stories are most significant- the stories of the rapist Negroes or the unspectacular stories of quiet, responsible and long-suffering Negroes? 
Which does the press live on? 
Let one person continue receiving unemployment relief after he has work and there will be a page one story like that recently appearing in the Advertiser, 'He can't stop dole cheques'. 
The papers are not carrying too many stories about the worker with a wife, four children and no job who is on the dole at $27 a week below the poverty line of the Henderson Commission. 
That is the gap between the dole and the poverty line for a family of six. 
People find it hard to get by even on average wages. 
But who puts up stories in the press about the round of second-hand clothes, kids without new shoes, cars without registration, monthly payments further and further behind, the fans of life of family unemployment? 
-The article continues: 
Do you know like the rest of Australia that Surfers Paradise is just full of young dole bludgers living off you and me? 
The fact is that unemployment relief in the Gold Coast area is up to IS per cent below the national average of unemployed on relief. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the Australian Government's attitude to the immigration of Rhodesians. 
What would be the Australian Government's attitude to the immigration of Rhodesians in the event of a negotiated settlement between the Smith regime and the British Government. 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. Is up to date information about current household expenditure and savings patterns essential for the development of effective antiinflationary policies? Was the Australian Bureau of Statistics on-going household expenditure survey instituted by the Australian Labor Government obtaining this information? Is the Government axing this survey? If so, why? 
-The Bill before the Committee will have an effect on the Income Tax Assessment Act and as the spokesman for the Opposition in that area I should like to explain that this Bill is part of a package of 1 0 Bills going through this chamber, four of which affect the Income Tax Assessment Act. The Opposition has done its homework on the details of the Bill. So far in this Committee stage the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  have dealt mainly with the principles of this Bill and have expressed the indignation of the Opposition in relation to what so likely will turn out to be the dismantling of Medibank and certainly will result in grave harm being done to Medibank. However, I want to raise a couple of questions about the detail in the hope that if not on this Bill at least when the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  is replying in relation to another Bill in this package we may have some answers. 
My first question relates to the matter of the $300 Medibank package. A few of us have gone through the details of this Bill. We notice that there is a provision for exemption from the 1.875 per cent levy during the year 1975-76 and exemption from the 2.5 per cent levy in the following financial year for those who are- if I can put it m a cryptic form- prescribed. But so far we can see only where those cryptically described as prescribed would be those contributing to the independent private health insurance funds. We cannot see where a limitation is written into the Bill in relation to those who pay a $300 maximum levy. 
This sort of research work has been done by the Opposition on all the Bills. I hope it also has been done on the part of the Government parties. It is significant that at this late hour we have been given long lists of proposed Government amendments on some of the Bills which will be dealt with later. I should take this opportunity- I know you will allow me,  Mr Lucock,  to say this- to mention that similar work was done on the 3 income tax Bills that went through last night. We did not delay the House on those Bills; we allowed a cognate debate on them. They were mainly in relation to indexation, as you know  Mr Chairman.  We would have liked to have expressed in greater detail our horror at pensioners now having their incomes liable to taxation. But we went along with the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  for the convenience of the House in debating in a cognate form and raising specific matters at the Committee stages of the Bills. 
That brings me to the second question which I want to raise arising out of our detailed work, and that is the right of those who opt out of the Medibank package to be treated in standard wards of Public hospitals. It seems to me that new provisions must be made in public hospitals for charges for standard wards. We have not been able to find anywhere in the second reading speeches on the 9 Bills any reference to this matter. It would seem to us inequitable that people contributing to private health insurance funds are not being charged if they use standard wards in public hospitals. I have agreed with the Leader of the House to take only 4 minutes. My time is up. I hope that anybody who reads the reports of these debates or who listens to these debates will not think that the Opposition has not been looking at the detailed legislation in the very short time that we have had to do so. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. The Treasurer said last Thursday week that he expected his statement on fiscal policy decisions to increase business confidence. I ask: Why, after investors have had time to evaluate the implications of the decisions, have Australian stock exchange indices fallen during the last few days? 
-The Opposition will not oppose the passage through this House of the Supply Bill (No. 1) 1976-77 and the Supply Bill (No. 2) 1976-77. The Supply Bill (No. 1) deals with the appropriation of revenue for ordinary current expenditure of the Government covering the period from 1 July to the end of November. The Supply Bill (No. 2) covers the appropriation for capital works and services, payments to or for the States and certain other services for the period 1 July to 30 November 1976. Having witnessed the attitudes that were adopted by members of the present Government parties when in Opposition, I will not anticipate the attitude that may be taken by the Opposition in the Senate on a Supply Bill of this nature. We cannot tell what the numbers in the Senate will be from one month to another. All sorts of exigencies can arise. There has been such a breaking of conventions over the last couple of years in relation to the granting of Supply, and to the replacement of senators who have left the Senate by persons of a different Party, that we have the instability that now exists in our system. Although it would seem from the majority that the Government has in the Senate that the Supply Bills will be passed in that place, I would not presume to say that that will definitely be so. Speaking for the Opposition in this chamber, 1 indicate that we will not be opposing the Supply Bills on this occasion. 
The detailed appropriation of revenue in the Supply Bills does not give very much indication of what the Government will do in the next Budget but there are 2 areas in particular- the appropriation for Aborigines and the appropriation for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development- which draw to our attention once again the unfortunate statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  which was made on Thursday of last week, in which he announced such devastating cuts in so many areas of government spending. In regard to Aborigines, in opening the debate on the statement in this House last Tuesday I said what a short sighted policy this was. We now have this highlighted to us when we find the appropriation for Aborigines so markedly cut. The tragedy is that this will be counter-productive. The tragedy of the situation is that expenditure of money on Aborigines now could have such a wonderfully beneficial social effect on integrating the Aboriginal community into our Australian community. It would provide them with housing and better social conditions. By reducing the appropriation for Aborigines as this Government is doing, as is witnessed in one of the Supply Bills before us, we can only come to the realisation that the Aboriginal community, growing in numbers, will become more and more bitter and that the expenditure on Aborigines by this Parliament over succeeding years will have to be greater in order to overcome those problems. I deplore this cut in government expenditure, as I deplore the overall cuts. 
As I said last Tuesday in opening the debate on the Treasurer's economic statement which is still before this House, we in the Parliamentary Labor Party and in the Labor movement generally in this country cannot go along with the overall economic strategy of the Government. However, before moving on to deal with that overall strategy, let me mention the other appropriation to which I have already alluded- that for the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. We can almost say that this Department, which was made up of three departments of the Australian Labor Government, will be extinguished in this forthcoming 1976-77 financial year. What environment development, what housing development or what community development will there be after the drastic reduction in funds that is apparent in both of the Supply Bills? 
I return to deal with the overall strategy of the Government. It is, I believe, outdated economics and is based on false ideology. I commend the contribution which was made last night by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in the debate on the economic statement. 
It is heartening to find that there are Government supporters- he is not the only one, although he is the most courageous in speaking on the subject- echoing the sorts of things that I am saying. What I am saying is that in this day and age of large unions determining wages and large corporations determining prices it is counterproductive to think that we can get an economy like ours moving again in this way after the drastic slump brought about almost entirely by world conditions. One only has to look at the economic history of every other comparable country over the last 12 to 24 months to recognise that we have been suffering from a world phenomenon. We must realise that we will not get out of this condition by following the ideology that a cut in government expenditure will create a gap which  ipso facto,  the private sector will take up. This just will not work. What we want is confidence in the community. What we want is consumer spending. Consumers will not spend if they are being given the sort of messages that are emanating from Government Ministers at this time. Consumers will not spend if we are ricocheting from one economic statement to another, if there is seen to be virtue- as there is seen to be virtue from the Government side- in making statements about enormous cuts in forward estimates. 
I pointed out earlier this week that such cuts in forward estimates are normal, although I believe in this case they are far more drastic than normal because the forward estimates would have been far more modest than normal after the sort of attitudes that this Government has portrayed in earlier months. If this cutting is seen to be a virtue, then its adverse effects will, of course, flow over into the community. My question to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  today gave just one indication of the adverse effect this attitude has had on the community because since the Treasurer's statement- itself allegedly designed to bring confidence to the community- the stock exchange indices, one of the most immediate indicators, have shown a downturn. This is the last thing we want. We want a return of confidence. We want consumer spending. It is only when consumers have spent in such a way that the slack in the production capacity of this country is taken up that we will get that new investment which is required for sustained economic recovery. Instead, we have the strategy of crying wolf, of suggesting that there are dire times ahead, that there are no soft options and that we have hard decisions to make. All of this affects confidence and the recovery that we so badly want. 
In addition there is a marked downturn in activity in the government sector of the economy, which makes up one-quarter of the economy. That government sector, of course, itself trades with the private sector and this trading will be downturned if there are cuts in government expenditure. We find that there are not the contracts going to the building industry which we desire. Honourable members who listened to the Canberra radio news this morning will know that the building industrial workers and the building employers in Canberra are to get together to ask for further government contracts in order to help the building industry, which is on the decline in the Territory. They want the Government to issue further contracts to get that sector going again. 
I am very glad to have the support of the honourable member for Canberra on this matter. I believe that he is another of the members on the other side of the House, to whom I referred earlier, who is bringing some support to the cause which I am taking up of trying to change the Government's attitude in respect of cuts in the public sector. Unfortunately I do not think that the action he has taken will save him in any way. Nevertheless, I welcome his support. What he is finding in his electorate applies elsewhere in Australia. 
It applies very definitely in my own State of South Australia, may I say in response to the Minister's interjection. We find that there are many, many contracts which would have been let if there had not been unnecessary cuts in public expenditure. Those contracts are not being let in a wide variety of areas. 
I am not referring to housing alone. I am referring to Government spending over all. I gave examples earlier this week in my response to the economic statement by the Treasurer. Let me give an example of cutbacks in one or two areas. One is the cutback in Government printing. In a small area of activity like that a number of contracts are let to small private printers who are now finding themselves with less work than they would otherwise be doing. Everywhere we turn in the economy we find the link between the public sector and the private sector. When the public sector activity is cut in the way in which this Government has acted not only are confidence and consumer spending affected but also employment is affected directly because of its relation to the contracts which would have been taken up in the private sector. 
So, the strategy has been, I believe, deliberately to create this unemployment and deliberately to work in the hope of a compliant union movement in this country allowing a real downturn in wages. Some success has been achieved as evidenced by the announcement within the last three-quarters of an hour of the decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the national wage case. There has been some success if one takes the philosophy of the Government as being correct. I believe that the success is temporary. I can only see the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission moving away from what will happen in the real world outside by its decision. 
I can add to that only that its decision will heighten the complete chaos that exists in wage determinations in this country. The Western Australia Industrial Commission some month or 6 weeks ago in its wages decision granted a 3 per cent increase to State awards. A leapfrogging situation is created with inequity setting in. The whole area of the margins problem in this country is opened up once again. That problem has been temporarily put aside with the national wage decisions following the principles that have been adopted recently. Looking at the situation in the State of Western Australia, we find that workers under State awards there have received a 3 per cent across the board increase. Yet those in that State working under Federal awardsthese people may live in the same street or work in the same factory as those under State awardsare to receive a 3 per cent increase only on wages up to $125 a week. 
This problem comes back to a situation of which, I believe, all of us in this country ought to be ashamed; we have not sorted out wage determination policies. In particular, the shame lies with the conservative parties because they were the ones who more than 1 8 months ago opposed, hook, line and sinker, the referendum on powers relating to prices and incomes. It is only when we have such control over prices and incomes, which control is - 
I welcome the intervention of the honourable member for Corio into this debate. The point I was about to make is one in distinction from that made by him. It is only when a proper wage determination system is introduced in this country-we must do away with leapfrogging claims, State determinations and Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission determinations and introduce some semblance of planning into wage determinations- that we will find ourselves with an equitable and adequate wages policy for Australia. That policy must be equitable and adequate to help overcome the very grave and difficult economic problems experienced when running a mixed economy such as ours. 
I do condemn the Government Parties for continuing to oppose the introduction of such order and powers which exist in the hands of other comparable governments and even other federations similar to our own in the world. Until we have this order, we will continue to have chaos. We will continue to find it extraordinarily difficult to overcome the economic problems with which we are beset. It is because of the Government's ideology of seeking to reduce real wages, and indeed, on the way to doing that, increasing unemployment, that we have the present ever worsening economic situation in this country. That is not the ideology, not the strategy of the Labor Party. The Government's own strategy is helped along by its own ideology, believing in even a smaller and smaller government sector. That is not our ideology. We believe that in this country in particular we have been built on a very proper intervention of public enterprise in our economic activity. 
-I believe that in many cases, in order to bring about equity in this country, in order to bring about an improved standard of living for those whom I seek to represent in this Parliament, there will have to be larger and larger government intervention. I am not ashamed to say so. This does not mean to say that there is not a tremendous amount of work to be done to ensure that that intervention is more efficient. We are the Party that set up the Coombs royal commission in order to bring about that efficiency. It was a shame on this Parliament and on the governments of this country that the last look at the Public Service and the delivery of such programs as we believe are necessary through government, goes back to the 1920s. That is when the last commission of inquiry into the Public Service was held. We set up the Coombs royal commission and we are looking forward to its findings. 
We believe in efficient public service; we believe in efficient government. There are no ways in which we can improve the quality of life of this country with better schools, better cities, better sewerage, a better deal for Aborigines, which I have already talked about, better telephones and postal services, better legal aid, better housing, better hospitals and better urban life generally other than through the intervention of government. I am not ashamed to want those things. I speak for all of the Labor movement when I demand that those things should be available for the people of this country. When you do knock the public sector as with their ideology, those on the other side of this Parliament do, then you are knocking these things: Better roads, better pensions, better overseas aid, better family law administration- and even better defence. I add the last for the benefit of the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Newman),  who is at the table, and who spent a great part of his career in the defence forces. 
I return to the details of the Supply Bills and say that particularly in the areas of appropriations for Aborigines and appropriations for environment, housing and community development, we see the first signs of real cuts. But we need not have waited for these Supply Bills to know about them, because we heard about them in the Treasurer's statement earlier this week. But as a spokesman for the Australian Parliamentary Labor Party in these matters, I pledge our Party to do everything it possibly can to reduce the unemployment in this country by advocating that the Government reverse this strategy on which it has embarked and reverse this ideology which it holds against the public sector. We just will not get a return to economic health in this country by starving the government sector. 
As a government, you must get out and spend. That spending is necessary in order to create contracts rather than cancel them- which is happening at the present time. That spending is necessary to create jobs rather than to have fewer jobs- which is happening at the present time. As I have already indicated, that spending is necessary to bring about the consumer confidence which itself will give rise to greater investment, to a greater share of the cake to the business sector, which I believe is necessary, from the present level it has reached, if we are to get the new investment which is necessary for sustained recovery. But we do not need to create unemployment in order to do that. The fact is that if we get that consumer confidence, if we get that spending, if we get that greater production, we will get greater productivity along with them. I believe that by sitting down and discussing these matters properly with the unions we will get the greater productivity transferred to the business sector and thus a greater investment for that greater sustained growth. There will be hard times ahead if the present strategy persists. 
I would now like to say a few words about the ideology of the Government in relation to a smaller public sector. I point out that this is certainly in contradistinction to what is happening elsewhere in the world. I noticed that in the debate on the economic statement the assertion was made- it is no more than an assertion- that the son of things I talked about on Tuesday in leading for the Opposition in the debate on the economic statement and the sort of things I have repeated today are not being supported by economists of this nation or of anywhere else. I refute that suggestion. I believe that the vast majority of economists- some in the business sector and nearly all in the academic sector- support what I am saying, as indeed some honourable members on the Government side are now supporting the line I am taking. 
An honourable member interjects and mentions Professor Ted Wheelwright. It is true that I quoted from a talk that he gave on the Australian Broadcasting Commission about the ideology of a smaller government sector, but it is not true to say that he involves himself in advice on economic stability in this country. I have not heard his opinions on the sort of things that I am talking about. I was referring to people like Professor John Nevile of the University of New South Wales and Professor Victor Argy of Macquarie University in New South Wales. I could go around nearly every university in this country and find support for the sort of things that I am saying. I do not have to turn only to universities. If I were free to do so I could also mention economists in the public sector itself. 
I am certainly free to quote from some of the published work of Professor Nevile about the deficit and the money supply. An article entitled  Government Expenditure and Inflation  written by him was published, of all places, in the Bank of New South Wales review of 17 March last. The article said that according to an analysis of the Friedman thesis- which has been followed to a great extent by this Government- welfare states with a high ratio of government expenditure are more prone to inflation than others. Professor Nevile finds the case not proven. He goes on to say that there is 'no necessary link between a larger deficit and a higher rate of inflation'. 
The Opposition knows this. As I have sought to show in the debate so far, the Government does not seem to know this. Specifically regarding the deficit and the money supply, Professor Nevile finds little relationship between the two in Australia's recent history. 
The point is made that measures 'aimed to affect aggregate demand' cannot be regarded as the major cause of high inflation in Australia in the last few years. The largest measures taken to stimulate aggregate demand in recent years have been increases in government expenditure. The Opposition has been arguing for some considerable time that increases in government expenditure have not been major causes of our problem. Professor Nevile certainly seems to us to agree with that view. I ask all honourable members to read the splendid article in the Bank of New South Wales review to that effect. 
When one is in opposition, particularly in a position like mine, one is in a tremendous dilemma about these matters. I believe that, politically, it will serve my cause well if the Government goes on along its present wrong course. But of course I cannot advocate that. It is not what is politically good for me or my Party that I must advocate; it is what is good for this country. The present economic policies are just not good for this country. They will not get us out of our economic troubles. It is my task to seek to help the Government while it is in office to get us out of our economic troubles; to get us back to economic health even though that might be politically damaging for me. There are just so many areas to which I can turn where these cuts in Government expenditure are counter-productive. A matter to which I must draw attention is the axing of the household expenditure survey because it is so important that, just as we should have an orderly wage determination system in this country, we should have more and more statistics on which to base our economic policy. 
I asked a question of the Treasurer on this subject and the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  will remember that he could not answer me then but sent me courteously a reply in the post that day. Perhaps the honourable member has seen a copy of it. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  established the survey which was to operate for at least 3 years. It was always intended to be an ongoing survey. The problem is not simply with establishing a household expenditure pattern but monitoring changes. Initial investment was put into recruiting interviewers and devising analytical techniques in this survey. Results from the first survey would have taken a long time to come through because of the need to adapt existing facilities to suit the data obtained. The results of the second survey obviously will be available much sooner for collection. By the third survey- definitely not tentatively planned but really planned- the Australian Bureau of Statistics hoped to issue quarterly surveys. This is the stage at which the data would be of most use. Of course, the project has been cut off in midstream. 
I welcome the interjection from the honourable member for Perth. The results of the first 2 surveys have not come through. It was an ongoing project and its only value would be if the survey results continued to come in regularly because it is the changes that are all important. It would seem that the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon)  may follow me in this debate. I hope that as a former Treasurer of this nation he will support the contention that there is so much more that needs to be done in collecting statistics and necessary data on which to base proper and adequate economic policies for this country. 
I regret that the right honourable member does not because in the economic sphere there are minds greater than his or mine which have gone into drawing up that survey. 
I too am thinking of people and there is nothing that hurts the lives of people more than the trade cycles which have been affecting their lives. I am aware of the fact that the only nation in the Western world which has in any way insulated itself from the slumps, peaks and troughs is Sweden, a country which has a public sector comprising 50 per cent of the work force as against our 30 per cent- a country which thanks to 30 years of a socialist democratic government is collecting the necessary statistics on which to base proper economic policies. I believe that the census which the Treasurer commendably is pursuing will give us a lot of information. I believe also that this household expenditure survey would have brought in the necessary information on which to base some of our economic policies. 
There is a lot more ground that I would like to cover but my time is coming to an end and I want to let as many others into the debate as possible. I end on this note: These Supply Bills unfortunately perpetuate a wrong economic policy which was commenced by this Liberal-National Country Party Government when it took over 6 months ago. I regret the ideology on which this wrong economic strategy is based. We must urge the Government to change not for the political fortunes of the Labor Party but for the good of this country because our first aim is to get people back into employment. We cannot trade-off unemployment for inflation. The old Phillips curve just does not apply now and has not applied for some time in this new psychological era in which we live. What we need is increased spending and with it increased production, increased productivity and an increased share for the business sector in order to get that higher return on investment which will stimulate new investment and sustain the recovery. This line is supported by many eminent economists. It is supported in other countries which are successfully coming out of the depression. 
My question is supplementary to questions from the honourable member for Cook and the Leader of the Opposition. If it is a fact, as the Treasurer stated to the Leader of the Opposition, that the Budget optimistically assumes a 2 per cent growth in employment by June next year, although the Budget papers do not set this out, will this not be more than offset by a growth in the work force of at least 2 per cent, thus producing unemployment levels at least as great as if not greater than they are at present- worse than 8 months ago when this Government took over? What are the Treasury's actual forecasts of the unemployment levels at the end of the next 4 months? This is the sort of forecast looked for by the honourable member for Cook; I understand the Treasury makes these forecasts. What is the explanation for the cut of $33m or 5.7 per cent in the allocation for unemployment and sickness benefits? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I move as an amendment to the motion: 
Omit ' 1 p.m. ' and substitute ' 3 p.m. ' 
I move this amendment because the Opposition's time has already been hijacked by Government supporters against all the traditions of this House. I think we are entitled to have at least another three-quarters of an hour from 2.15 p.m. to 3 p.m. in order to discuss the 2 notices that are before us. It is only because the Government does not want discussion of these matters that it has allowed this sort of new procedure to take place and that general business day has been treated in this cavalier manner. 
-This Bill is really a machinery measure. To relieve from his obvious suspense the Minister for Post and Telecommunications (  Mr Eric  Robinson), who is sitting at the table, I announce that the Opposition is not opposing this Bill. As the Minister explained in his second reading speech, it is necessary if a prospective deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund in 1976-77 is to be legally financed that we have this Loan Bill. The Loan Bill (No. 3) 1976 seeks authority for the raising of loans to finance mainly defence expenditure. Through this device finance expenditure which would otherwise be a call on the Consolidated Revenue Fund is financed from loan raisings in the Loan Fund. 
The effect of the Bill is to transfer up to $l,600m of the 1976-77 expenditure from a fund which is short of cash, namely, the Consolidated Revenue Fund, to another fund that is not so short; namely, the Loan Fund. It does not authorise any expenditures in its own right. It does not involve a change in monetary policy or in debt management policy. Similar Bills to this one have been enacted by the Parliament for the same purpose almost annually for decades. The Australian Labor Party has never opposed such Bills. They are not substantive economic legislation. They are essential machinery measures required for legal and accounting reasons. The Opposition to such measures could be described frankly wherever it came from- and it has not come from the Labor Party- only as obstructionism. I remind the House that in the very long history of Loan Bills brought before the Parliament there has been one occasion only on which a Bill such as this one has failed, and this happened not long ago. We will come to that in a moment. 
A few months ago when we were debating the present Government's first Loan Bill I pointed to what I described as a piece of semantic nonsense. The Government had departed from previous practice and incorporated in the Bill a specific monetary' limit of $700m on the amount that could be borrowed under this Bill which will become an Act. This was a meaningless gesture. The figure of $700m in the Bill was not going to be a constraint because it was in the Bill. It was a constraint only because that was all the defence expenditure left for the year that could be charged against loan raisings. 
I see that in this Bill the same charade is being repeated. A limit of $ 1,600m has been set. Again it is fairly obvious that this figure is simply an estimate of the amount of defence spending available for charging against loans. In a practical sense the inclusion of a cash limit in the Bill achieves nothing at all. The only reason the Government has included the figure in the Bill is to create an impression of responsibility. In doing so it insults the intelligence of us all, and that includes members on the Government side. The Bill is no more and no less open-ended than any of its predecessors. 
Let me refer back now to another speech I made in this chamber during the last session. On the debate on amendments to the Audit Act I suggested that the old system of Commonwealth accounting through 3 separate funds, namely, the Consolidated Revenue Fund, the Loan Fund and the Trust Fund, had just about had its day. In fact I hope I went as far as to say on that occasion that this system was long overdue for change. It is the continued existence of the 3 separate funds that makes Bills like this one necessary. This system also requires the keeping of 3 separate sets of accounts and numerous journal entries transferring amounts from one account to another. The wasted man hours must be very great in making these unnecessary accounting entries. 
I am surprised that in its search for economies and waste and the elimination of overlap and duplication the Government has not moved to consolidate its accounting. Let me state again what has been said by spokesmen on this side time and time again. We too are against real waste and are looking for efficiency. We believe that those sorts of improvements come from such reports as the Coombs commission report. We do not like the broad brush, blunt methods that have been used far too often- methods such as staff ceilings. We too are looking for efficiency. Here was an example of an efficiency which could be instituted. Such a move might result in some small savings compared with the ruthless slashing of worthwhile programs for Aboriginals and other needy groups. But these savings would hurt nobody. I ask the Minister assisting the Treasurer, who is sitting at the table, to consider this matter. I think that the same Minister was sitting at the table the last time I brought this question before the House. I call on the Treasury to include its own backyard in its further searches for economies. 
As I have already mentioned, this Bill is generally regarded as a mere machinery measure. However, the present Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  when the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, used the opportunity provided by a Bill such as this one to launch an attack on the Hayden Budget, particularly the deficit and the financing arrangements for that Budget. It could be said that the plethora of arrant economic nonsense the then Opposition attributed to the deficit began at that point. This was when the funny season on deficits calculations commenced. Honourable members opposite were known to project the yearly deficit from the July figures by multiplying by twelve, and multiplying one month's deficit by twelve is extremely hazardous and stupid. For the benefit of members of the present Government I point out that the same calculation, based on the July 1976 deficit, would produce a yearly deficit figure of at least $7.6 billion. No doubt members opposite have learnt something in the last 12 months and can point to the absurdities of such an exercise. While I am Opposition spokesman on Treasury matters, I have no intention of involving the Labor Opposition in such irresponsible attitudes and irresponsible actions as those which took place this time last year on such matters. 
With regard to this year's projected deficit- I say 'projected ' advisedly for there is no reason to assume that this year's projection will be any more accurate than last year's- the Treasurer has left a lot of questions unanswered. On the surface, in 1976-77 the Government will be faced with a domestic deficit of $ 1,879m, about $ 1,000m less than the actual domestic deficit for 1975-76. Is there really a gap as wide as that between the 2 deficits? Let us look more closely at the figures. It appears that in constructing this Budget and in terminating last year's spending the Government has performed a number of accounting fiddles. Let me instance some of them. Firstly, the Australian Telecommunications 
Commission has been asked to borrow $200m on the open capital market rather than receive a Budget allocation for its capital requirements, as it did last year. Secondly, a large repayment of loan funds will be made by the Australian Wool Corporation. Thirdly, Medibank payments amounting to $200m were made last year rather than this year. These are the major items in a number of bookkeeping rearrangements which, when taken account of, suggest that the deficits of 1975-76 and 1976-77 are of the same magnitude rather than $ 1 billion different, as suggested earlier. The whole exercise points up the absurdity of so many of the Liberal and National Country Parties' statements- I could even call them ignorant utterances- on the subject of the deficit, particularly during the last year. 
The Treasurer has never tired of informing the House of the implications of the Budget deficit for the growth in the money supply. I would like him to detail to us at some stage whether his projections of a 10 per cent to 12 per cent growth in the money supply are based upon a domestic deficit of $ 1,800m or whether they take into account the monetary arrangements to which I have just referred. It appears that the Government has been caught in the net of its own propaganda on this deficit subject. I remind the House that deficits in themselves are not evil. Some of the considerations surrounding deficits are: What resources are being used by the expenditure which is giving rise to the deficit? Are they resources which are lying idle or are they resources which are in great demand? How is a particular deficit to be financed? Does it mean an unwisely large increase in the money supply? I repeat my support of the Government in laying down its growth in money supply at a reasonable level. I think in the last financial year it was reasonable, but I will not give in advance the sorts of things I will be saying in my speech on the Budget tomorrow. 
I support the laying down of a target for money supply growth. I repeat: Does it mean an unwisely large increase in the money supply? One of the factors about deficits is that in themselves they are not wrong, but they give rise to these questions: Does it mean such a large amount must be raised on the capital market by the public sector that some other valuable capital raising will be crowded out or that interest rates will be forced up? These are the factors, not mindless ignorant suggestions to the effect that deficits in themselves are bad. I am not presenting my speech on the Budget tonight. I am due to make that tomorrow afternoon. When I do I shall refer to the Government's deficit plans for 1976-77 as well as to its target money growth plans. I shall leave until tomorrow my thoughts on those subjects. It is sufficient for me to conclude on this note: The Labor Opposition is continuing to act responsibly in relation to Bills such as this one and to these matters of financing a deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund. This is in sharp contrast to the actions of our political opponents, the Liberal and National Country Parties, when they were in Opposition this time last year. We of the Labor Opposition are not opposing this Bill. 
-It does not please me to say that we have just heard a mean, pretentious, misleading and, to a large extent, irrelevant speech from the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It was mean because it spent the first 5 minutes in nothing more or less than a personal diatribe against the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I call the speech pretentious because it came from a man who started off his speech giving credit to the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Gillard)  for calling for unity in this country. It came from a man- a Prime Minister- who at question time talked about courtesy in this House. Because the speech was pretentious and misleading in so many ways. 
The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  has just pointed out one of the ways -the comments about personal taxation receipts. Of course, the point that the honourable member for Prospect made is perfectly valid. The taxation receipts of this country, as shown by the Budget documents, will increase by 24 per cent in the 1976-77 financial year and the pay-as-you-earn receipts will be particularly large. All of this is due not just to the elimination of the taxation rebate for families, which has caused hardship for many families. It is a fact that the taxation receipts have gone up enormously. The tax indexation is not based on the consumer price index increase; it is adjusted for increases in indirect taxes. This is another misleading area which has not been pointed out to the people of this country hitherto and of which one is unaware unless one delves into some obscure parts of the Budget documents. 
The speech is misleading for more reasons than that. It is misleading most of all because,  9Vi  months after the Liberal and National Country Parties took over the government of the country, it seeks to persuade the Australian people that the sorts of problems that we have in this country are not world problems. I throw at the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  the words uttered by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  in London as recently as 12 August, when he was speaking to businessmen in a country which is going through similar problems, just as he spoke to businessmen in Europe. He could not get away with the sort of speech, misleading the Australian people, that we have heard from the Prime Minister tonight. Here is what the  Deputy  Prime Minister said to London businessmen: 
Since I last visited London as a member of the Australian Government in 1972, several political and economic events of importance to both our countries have occurred. Britain is now firmly established as a member of the European Communities. The world economy has been shaken by the energy crisis, inflation and severe recession, and both our economies have suffered as a result- more so than most other developed countries. 
They are the words of the Deputy Prime Minister, being truthful when he was with men who understand that what we have been suffering from in this country is a world phenomenon. Yet, not only were the people at the last Federal election misled into believing that the people who are now in control would manage our economy better, but in speeches such as the one to which we have just had the misfortune to listen to in this House tonight, they are still seeking to mislead the Australian people in the same way. 
The speech also was misleading in talking about recovery and confidence. I quote some of the headlines that have appeared in newspapers since the Treasurer made his Budget Speech last Tuesday week: 'Retailers see no recovery'; 'Sharp fall in vehicle sales'; and 'Budget strategy tottering'- that is because it is built on false premises. Let me quote from one of the best known economic commentators in our country: 
Fresh information now casts doubt daily on the foundations the Federal Government used to decide its Budget strategy. 
On Monday, car registration figures showed a sharp downturn- sharper than might have been expected. Yesterday- 
This was written on Wednesday; so that refers to Tuesday- industrial production figures for July showed a slump. A  Business Age  survey showed the retailing industry in the doldrums and that car sales have shown no sign of recovery. 
The Bureau of Statistics figures showed only 10 of the 32 basic items of production increased after seasonal adjustment in the 3 months to July compared with the previous 3 months. 
That is not just me talking; that is quoting responsible commentators on the state of our economy. Yet we have continuing deception in the speech we have just heard. When I get to my prepared speech in a moment, I will show the deception in the Budget Speech itself about recovery and confidence. What recovery? What confidence? At the best, we can say it is equivocal. 
Also the Government misleads and talks about reform. I think the best we can say about the personal diatribe inflicted on us by the Prime Minister just now is that at least he did not try to continue to pretend that this is the Budget of reform. At least the Government has learned how hollow that claim is. As to unemployment figures, we now have had 9 months of this Government. What is the result? We have larger unemployment in seasonal terms now than we had 9 months ago when the Liberal and National Country Parties took over the government of this country. This is the only country in the world, that I know of, that has larger unemployment now than 9 months ago; yet still, 9 months after they took over, the Prime Minister of this country rises in this House in a Budget debate and seeks to persuade the Australian people and to mislead the Australian people into believing that the Government's strategy is working. Of course it is not working. Of course it is built on false assumptions, as I will show when I come to the main burden of my speech. I said that the speech we have just heard was irrelevant, and it is irrelevant for a number of reasons. It is irrelevant because most of it was devoted to the fact that the Labor Party does not consider inflation to be a problem. Of course, the Labor Party considers inflation to be a problem, and it has an alternative strategy to attack inflation. The Labor Party is not prepared to see the real wages and salaries of this country reduced for the sake of curing inflation when there are alternative ways, as in our strategy. 
I will tell the House in time what the alternative strategy is, but my first task is to put into its proper context the speech of the Prime Minister. I repeat that that context is of a mean, pretentious, misleading and irrelevant speech, and I have been going through the reasons why that is so. The speech contained nothing about the effect of the Budget on the States, Medibank or indirect charges. We have to wait now for the State Budgets to see the effect of this Budget on the States. The Australian Budget is either going to reduce the services to the Australian people that are normally given by the States or it is going to force the States to increase their charges. Either way, it is totally unsatisfactory and totally unnecessary, as the House will find when the alternative economic strategy is outlined. I think that is enough for the speech of the Prime Minister. I trust that no one in this country will take that speech seriously. 
Last Tuesday night the Leader of the Opposition, in an excellent speech well received in areas which matter to us, ably moved an amendment condemning this Budget in terms which I believe have not received sufficient attention. Here they are: 
The House condemns the Budget because- 
it pursues a policy of unemployment as a weapon to reduce real wages and salaries; 
it abdicates federal government responsibilities and forces the State governments and local governments either to reduce their services or institute additional charges, or both; 
it introduces an additional tax in the form of the Medibank levy, thus further reducing consumer spending; 
it reduces the availability of services to the whole community but particularly to those most vulnerable to hardship, notably Aborigines, the unemployed and migrants; and 
it fails to institute selective stimulatory expenditure to reduce unemployment and restore consumer confidence. 
I had the privilege of seconding the amendment on that night, and I now enter the debate to support it. 
My Leader condemned the Budget document as an economic document as well as a social document. Naturally, as the Labor Opposition's spokesman on Treasury matters- as shadow Treasurer- it is my purpose to concentrate in the brief 20 minutes left to me on the Budget as an economic document. The circumstances in which the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has prepared his first Budget are difficult- extremely difficult. We realise that the world economic situation, as I said earlier and as I quoted the  Deputy  Prime Minister as saying, has mainly caused this situation. Unemployment is high and rising. Prices are increasing at a socially disturbing rate. Output is growing slowly. And there are, as usual, innumerable competing demands for government funds. The Liberal-National Country Party Government has selected one of a number of possible strategies and has applied it consistently. Consistency has been its only possible virtue. I wish for Australia's sake it had been less virtuous, less consistent, and had in this Budget altered course from the dangerous path on which it has placed our country. I believe that economic developments during the next year will show the Budget to be grossly inadequate. The coalition Parties at election time claimed- we now see it was a false claim- to be good economic managers. Their record in their first 8 months is abysmal. Our economic problems have worsened. And their first Budget is simplistic- an over.simplfication of our problems and the cures for those problems. 
The Treasurer says that the single important economic problem facing Australia is inflation. He argues that inflation leads to low investment, high personal savings and therefore low spending and unemployment. But these are oversimplified, partial explanations. For it is also true that low investment is a result of low profits caused by inadequate demand- inadequate spending. High personal savings result largerly from people's fear of unemployment- not from fear of inflation but of unemployment. Low spending by households is caused partly by the large number of the workforce who are unemployed. It is obvious that our economic problems are complex; they have many causes. It is disastrous for us to be too simplistic. 
The Government shows no signs of recognising these realities. It is simply foolish to diagnose one cause for all economic problems when there are many. It is equally foolish to set one preeminent target for economic policy. For concentration on one aim will lead to the creation of further distortions in the economy. This is what is happening now. In order to reduce the rate of inflation the Government is increasing unemployment, retarding economic growth, increasing inequalities in income and entrenching structural imbalances. In other words, the Treasurer has taken an extreme position: 'Reduce inflation regardless of the cost' he says. What Australia requires is a more mature, integrated approach to economic policy in which all aims have a place. Effective economic policy must aim not only at reducing inflation but also at reducing unemployment, increasing the rate of economic growth, reducing inequalities in income and maintaining balance of payments equilibrium. 
The Prime Minister apparently recognised at least the need for an economic growth target at the time of his election policy speech last year for he said then that a growth rate of 6 per cent to 7 per cent was quite feasible. It is disappointing and unnecessary that such a target was not one of the aims of this Budget. It is another example of a deception perpetrated on the Australian people at the last election. The coalition's extremely distorted economic aims are apparently a product of its conservative ideology. This ideology is riddled with contradictions. My Leader ably outlined the social implications of its mutilation of the public sector in his speech last Tuesday. 
Let me state some economic implications. The Government argues that the size of the public sector should be reduced so that the private sector can expand. Yet the most important single influence on the private sector is the level of government spending. It says that government spending should be reduced. Yet productive capacity remains unused and skilled people remain idle. It plans that unemployment must be allowed to remain high, yet Australian unemployment benefits are kept low and manpower policies are abandoned. The Government deliberately allows unemployment to remain high, yet forces people to go through demeaning and complex procedures to obtain unemployment benefits. For some reason it is implied that the unemployed are morally responsible for their position, when in fact the Government has large responsibility for the number of jobless today. The Government asserts that inflation is our principal problem, yet the operations of the Prices Justification Tribunal are criticised by this Government. If inflation is our major problem, why was the Medibank levy introduced, effectively increasing both marginal tax rates and the consumer price index, and creating further rounds of cost and price increases? 
The Treasurer has claimed that the Government's policies have been consistent- and I have agreed with him. It is true that there has been rigidity in the obsession with inflation, and a fixation on the size of the deficit. But frankly there have also been minor marginal changes of approach. I wish the changes had been greater. The coalition's strategy- if I may outline one of the changes- during the first few months of office was to rely on an investment-led recovery. It soon realised however that businessmen would not invest until spending began to rise. So the Prime Minister urged people to spend, and the Treasurer made a major economic statement on 20 May, said to be aimed at stimulating confidence. These policies too have been ineffective, for consumer confidence has fallen since May. Why do the Government parties not recognise fully their grave error and scrap the expensive and wasteful and only marginally beneficial investment allowance, thus freeing funds for more worthwhile purposes. Meanwhile, factory production, as measured both by the Australian Bureau of Statistics and by the ANZ index, is falling. Unemployment continues to grow- to 5.2 per cent of the workforce at present in seasonally adjusted terms. Private sector building approvals fell in June. The much publicised build-up of stocks in the March quarter was reversed in the June quarter when total stocks fell by $ 1 86m. 
Furthermore, motor vehicle sales fell sharply in July. The estimated change from the previous quarter of real seasonally adjusted gross domestic product fell from 3.6 per cent in the March quarter to 0.6 per cent in the June quarter. These figures show that some of the major forces for economic recovery were having a contractionary influence in the months preceding the Budget. They were conveniently not mentioned in the Budget Speech. They were conveniently not mentioned by the Prime Minister in the speech he made prior to my speech now. A quite inadequate picture of the state of the economy was presented by the Treasurer on Budget night. In fact in this area, as in many others, the Budget Speech was deceptive. 
Despite the dismal picture, the Treasurer has continued to claim that Australia is in the same position as the large member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. He over-simplifies this comparison in the same way as he over-simplifies his description of the causes of economic problems and the strategy he uses to deal with them. In comparing Australia with other OECD countries he neglects the fact that economic cycles in Australia conventionally lag behind cycles in the industrialised countries in the northern hemisphere. He overlooks that, because of delays to recovery in Australia caused by his Government's policies, the lags are increasing. Most of the other OECD countries are in a different place on the recovery curve. They are higher up than we are. Their recovery started earlier than ours. For the most part, their policies now are not appropriate to our country. The Treasurer wastes his time making assertions about the OECD such as the ones he included in his Budget Speech. For example, in the United States in 1975 government expenditure was the only substantial expansionary influence on the economy, increasing by 1.3 per cent while gross domestic product declined by 2 per cent. In 1975 government spending is expected to increase faster, by 2.5 per cent, while gross domestic product is forecast to grow by 7 per cent. This is important because the United States is the country where recovery in the world picture is commencing first. In Japan this pattern is even clearer. In 1976 government consumption rose by 6.8 per cent and public investment by 13.4 per cent, while gross domestic product grew by only 2.2 per cent In 1976 public spending is expected to grow by between 4 per cent and 5 per cent and gross domestic product by 6 per cent to 8 per cent. The public sector was also the most expansionary influence in the United Kingdom and West Germany during the trough of the recession and during the recovery. Governments in these countries actively used public sector spending to lift their economies out of recession. Yet the Treasurer and the Government we are suffering at the moment apparently consider they are adopting the same strategy as other OECD countries. They are not. We are cutting government spending at a time when these countries have clearly used government spending to come out of the recessionary trough. It is absurd to make the claims that the Treasurer has made. 
He is not comparing like with like. This Budget envisages a fall in total real outlays, whereas in each of the four large economies mentioned, real government spending is expected to continue to increase. The Treasurer apparently notes that most OECD countries have rates of inflation which are too high and then generalises the broad recommendations which are made for this group of countries in aggregate to the substantially different Australian economy. This is another example of the Treasurer's over.simplifications. It is another deception. 
The Government's approach to the labour market is naive too. It says that reducing real wages relative to productivity would reduce the rate of growth of prices. Of course it would, but people cannot be treated as if they are goods. Men of dignity will not be manouvered by Machiavellian manipulators in Canberra who have no intellectual or emotional understanding of their position. Indexation introduced order and dependable justice to wage setting. As long as employees were able to anticipate that they would be compensated for price rises, the major cause for disputes was eliminated from industrial relations. As we all know, the Liberal Party promised during the election campaign to retain indexation and then broke this promise as soon as it took office. The Government has tried persistently to break the system despite the fact that it is working effectively. 
It is true that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission increased real wages and salaries much faster than productivity in 1974, and that this increased labour costs per unit of output. Wage earners have now, of course, adjusted their living standards to this income position. The answer is not dictatorially to attempt to impose real wage cuts on employees, but to accept that re-adjustment from this distortion will take time, and to allow the recovery of economic activity and improvements in technique and management steadily to increase labour productivity. Conservative politicians and remote administrators may be unhappy with the slowness of that process, but surely it is a more humane strategy, and one less fraught with the danger of breakdown. There are grave dangers for our nation if we return to the law of the jungle in wage and salary determinations- dangers of more strikes, not less, of greater losses of production and productivity. Economic management must take account of human and institutional realities. The labour market is not the same as a commodity market. 
The Government is treating wage earners like school boys, saying that the wickedness of a large real wage increase in 1974 must be punished by lower wages and high unemployment now. Only when real wages have fallen, says our schoolmaster Prime Minister, will punishment be withdrawn and unemployment be allowed to decrease. And so the least well-off are forced to suffer. Why did the Government not sustain the beginnings of an offer of a social contract which tax indexation and the family allowance schemes provided, and attempt to collaborate with the unions in maintaining the social wage and achieving industrial peace? I will tell the House why. It is because of its conservative ideology, of its other policies, of the violent way honourable members opposite won government. There is no way now of their winning a satisfactory concensus with the industrial movement of our community. Only Labor can achieve this. 
It is impossible for the unions to co-operate with a government that does not keep its word- a government which not only attempts to force wages down but also slowly reduces services or introduces charges such as the Medibank levy for existing services. The Medibank tax reduces the real wages, so the decision to impose it is a legitimate cause for industrial disputes. A subtle and gradual approach would have been more effective in the long run. The bludgeoning LiberalNational Country Party Government approach to wages and the unions is consistent with the manner in which the Prime Minister obtained leadership of his Party and the style he used to force an election. I pledge myself to build more and more bridges with all levels of the trade union movement- not just summit conferences between Australian Council of Trade Unions executives and Federal Cabinets but real communications with Trades Hall delegates, with those at shop steward level. Our economy will require social contracts at various stages in the trade cycle progress. There must be real communication and real understanding. I repeat: Only Labor can achieve this. 
Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was outlining, in support of the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition, the disaster of the economic strategy of the Liberal-National Country Party Government of concentrating only on inflation and neglecting unemployment. I explained how the Government's wages policy was wrong. I explained how the effect of the Budget was for unemployment to continue at the present totally unsatisfactory rate and for inflation hardly to reduce, if at all. I now continue with some arguments in support of this thesis. 
I turn to some other factors determining recovery. Receipts from personal income tax are expected to increase by 25 per cent compared with a 12 per cent increase in average weekly earnings and a one per cent to 2 per cent increase in employment. Part of this difference is due to the abolition of the rebates for dependent children, but even excluding the additional receipts from this charge, the increase in net PAYE is 17.3 per cent. So personal income tax receipts rise about 4 per cent faster than the national wage bill, reducing personal disposable income at a time when, for recovery, we need increased personal disposable income. This will be another factor delaying economic recovery. 
The changes to company tax arrangments will certainly shift resources towards company profits and thereby encourage business. But are they likely to be cost effective? This we cannot evaluate because the Government has not published sufficient information. I wonder why? The most costly innovation, in terms of revenue forgone, is the trading stock valuation adjustment arising from the Mathews proposals. This change has much to commend it. There is no doubt that firms were and are facing grave liquidity problems in times of rapid inflation, because they have had to pay tax on 'paper' profits on inventories. They cannot convert these paper profits into real profits by liquidating the inventories because they need stocks to remain in business. So this measure will be a help. However, the commitment is open ended. Apparently the Treasury was unable to estimate the cost in 1977-78. It seems likely, though, that this change will involve at least the estimated loss of revenue next year which would have accrued this year, namely, $3 50m and therefore it will restrict Budget options in the future. 
Highly competent economists are divided about the usefulness of this scheme. For it dis.criminates inequitably between various industries and is administratively complex. In Opposition I am unable to obtain all the facts I require to make a final judgment, but I suspect that the Government would have been wiser to take the reported advice of the Treasury and use the much simpler means of encouraging business, namely, by reducing company tax rates. I know this does not help those who are paying tax on losses rather than on profits, but there are grave anomalies in the scheme announced by the Government. We will look with great care at the legislation when it is brought in. 
In the case of the changes in mining tax, the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on the petroleum and mining industries, which were reported to the Government on 28 May 1976 and which by convention should have been published quicklywhich under the Labor Government would have been published quickly-were released only last Tuesday. Is this because the expert advice of the IAC was not accepted by the Government? Reducing the write off paid for capital spending on mining and petroleum projects from 25 years to 5 years gives greater concessions to the mining industry than to any other industry. The IAC does not consider this necessary to encourage mining development. This decision illustrates yet again the deviation from sound economic policies which the Government's ideology is causing. Thoroughly researched and carefully prepared advice from the most competent public sector sources is rejected in favour of largesse based on prejudice. The strange aspect of the seemingly excessive encouragement being given to the mining industry is that it comes on top of 3 years of increasing mining investment. For despite what the coalition spokesman say, mining investment collapsed under the McMahon Government and then increased steadily throughout the 3 years of Labor Government. It was only at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year that mining investment declined again. It is ironic that a Liberal-National Country Party Government has to give such an over generous tax concession to reverse this trend again. 
Government outlays have been constrained by an inadequate conception of the role of the public sector in effectively providing services to the whole community and contributing to the growth of productivity in the private sector by improvements to infrastructure. If instead a strategy of stimulating a faster rate of economic growth had been adopted, higher tax revenue would have been received from the higher national income. People in this country, misled by our opponents, seen to forget the addition to productivity of improved roads and such infrastructure which can be given only by government. The coalition Government's spending cuts have had their greatest impact on the building and construction industry, for it is easier to defer or cancel capital works than it is to retrench staff. The result has been that employment in the building and construction industry fell by nearly 50 000, or 11 per cent, between May 1975 and May 1976. Yet knowing this, and knowing that unemployment in the construction industry is particularly severe in New South Wales and Queensland, the Government has sharply reduced funds for capital works in money terms, leave alone in real terms. This does not make economic sense. Public sector capital expenditure on buildings and construction has a greater impact on income growth than any other category of government spending. The so-called multiplier effect of spending on buildings and construction is higher than for all other types of government outlays. The combined factors of severe unemployment and under-utilisation of construction industry capacity and the depressed state of the economy suggest clearly that selective stimulation should have been given to this industry, particularly in the most depressed regions. I repeat that improvements in infrastructure such as roads, transport facilities, water and power supplies, not only improve services available to the community but also increase the efficiency of the private sector- a result at present forgotten by the Government. The cost effectiveness of such outlays would have been high. 
The Budget does not contain one program to support what the Prime Minister chooses to call 'the genuinely unemployed'. Why is there no manpower pOliCy involving, for example, an expanded retraining scheme? In fact, we find that those sections of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations are being retrenched rather than increased in number. The young unemployed in particular constitute not only a grave social problem for us aU to cure but also a serious economic problem. As soon as the upturn in the world trade cycle reaches us and our economy recovers, which it will in spite of the foolish economic mistakes of the coalition Government, those young skilled workers will be badly needed. Public funds should be spent now on the training of the young unemployed. The Budget neglects the underprivileged and the people who need encouragement. Spending on Aborigines is decimated; real overseas aid falls to a lower proportion of national income than that which has applied for over 10 years; the real value of family allowances is already falling; a decision about student allowances is still deferred. The Leader of the Opposition outlined these social tragedies in impressive detail in his speech last Tuesday night. 
I will sum up the Opposition's attitude to this Budget as an economic document. We believe it is built on a false assumption. Recovery is not yet assuredly under way. It needs to be nurtured. The aim must be to unlock the key to consumer confidence. We reject the notion that neglecting unemployment and concentrating on inflation is that key. We assert that modest, selective, stimulatory expenditure in areas where there are unemployed men and women and idle materials and reducing charges such as the Medibank tax are not only beneficial in themselves but they are also the key to consumer confidence, consumer spending, business investment and thus, modest, slow but sure recovery. We believe that government spending and revenue forgone on these policies can be financed by scrapping the investment allowance and the other more extravagant business subsidies and by a modest increase in the deficit which would not either force up interest rates or lead to an over-large growth in the money supply. We applaud the setting of targets for the money supply but will watch carefully the application of monetary policies and their effect. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask for leave to continue my remarks. 
I thank the House. I will not transgress its time for more than 2 minutes. Economic recovery itself would generate taxation revenue which would reduce the deficit. It would also constitute the greatest bonus for business. We support those modest measures which help the private sector with its grave liquidity problems. At the same time we believe such recovery handled by a humane and sensitive government, one not dedicated to destroying the public sector, would set the scene for meaningful communications and agreements with the industrial movement of this country to ensure growth without inflation. Only with such a social contractin such an atmosphere- would we ensure that we do not riccochet back into ever higher inflation with yet more unemployment. Let us remember, however, that restraint must apply not only to wage and salary earners but also to all who fix prices. 
The Prime Minister has called this a 'people's Budget'. That can only be true if by 'people' he means employed, white Australian, adult males. It is not a Budget for the overwhelming majority of people of this country. Because there were no immediate increases in the price of cigarettes, beer and petrol, they may not realise it yet. But they will realise it. They will understand when the Medibank tax hits them on 1 October. They will understand when there is no adequate improvement in the rate of unemployment or in the rate of reduction of inflation over the next 12 months. Rather than turning on the lights, as the Liberal Party's election slogan offered, this Budget dims the lights- in fact, it smashes many light globes- which were guiding the way to economic recovery and it shuts off the light of hope for humane government. The amendment should be supported by this House as it will be and would be by the nation. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say whether a group of members of Australian State Police Forces is going overseas on an escorted tour of South Africa in October. 
) If so, can he also say what support for this tour is being provided by South African police, and any other pan of the South African Government. 
Does this visit have the approval of the Australian Government 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Does the Government intend to publish a report by the Australian delegation to UNCTAD IV; if so, when. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the full employment Budget outcome in 1975-76. 
What is the anticipated full employment Budget outcome in 1976-77. 
-I think it needs repeating that the Australian Labor Party Opposition supports the contention that we are going through very difficult economic times. They are described as times of stagflation which means that we are suffering from a very high rate of unemployment at the same time as a very high rate of inflation. Listening to some of the speeches by Government supporters one would think this was not conceded. What the debate is about is how we are going to get out of this difficult economic situation because we assert, with great confidence, that the economic difficulties which we suffer in Australia are difficulties of the system whether we describe it as a capitalist system or a mixed economy, which are shared by every other comparable country which has our form of system. 
The reasons our particular system arrives at a situation such as this difficult one of stagflation can be explained by describing the trade cycle and demonstrating how freedom is given to many different institutions, whether they are different companies, whether they are called Gove, Hamersley, Mount Newman or whatever in the various countries, to make these decisions separately and independently of each other without any economic planning and arriving at an overstocking situation in so many areas and then, of course, stocks- this happens in country that operates under a similar sort of system- are bound to run down. Then there is less investment. So we have this world trade cycle situation. It came at the time the ALP was in power. It affected not just our country but every similar country and we are all grappling with how to come out of this situation. It is completely misleading for Government supporters cynically to bring in a paper on wages policy such as this ministerial statement which we are debating today suggesting that the main cause of these problems of unemployment is the wage indexation system or the wages policies which have hitherto operated in this country. I repeat, it is a cynical exercise. 
The opening sentence of the statement by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  completely misrepresents the current industrial relations in Australia. Orderly methods of wage fixation are under attack, not from the trade union movement as is suggested in this document, but from the Government itself. It is the Government which has opposed continuation of the indexation system. It is the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who in his election policy speech- and I quote it again even though speakers from this side of the House used the quotation earlier in the debate- said: 
Our reforms will maintain the purchasing power of wages and ease the pressure for excessive wage demands. 
It is the Government which broke this election promise straight after taking office by arguing for a reduction in real wages before the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It is the Government which has continued to attempt to break the indexation system. 
The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  can, of course, point to many different areas, as he has done, where the increase in wages has increased costs and has caused difficulties but no solutions are offered by him other than the alternative one of cutting real wages which is being done by a government which promised not to do that. It made the promise at that time for very good reason- not only to win votes but because it was being properly advised at that time not to create confrontation in this country. The Government has since apparently been advised differently and it has fallen for bad advice as I hope to illustrate in my speech. 
The Minister's misrepresentation in this statement is astounding. A just system, an effective workable system, is being deliberately undermined by this Government- a government that promises one thing and does the opposite. Then the Minister has the gall to make a statement suggesting that 'certain elements in the trade union movement' are attacking the system. It is difficult to believe that the Minister has made his statement other than to invite criticism. This will clearly be the effect. The ministerial statement is quite inadequate because it inadequately describes the facts, leave alone the economic strategy of the options which are available. For example, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations in this statement attempts to support his case by arguing that industrial conflict is increasing. The figures which he cites show this statement to be false. The latest statistics for industrial disputes are for the month of May. They show that 804 000 working days were lost in the first 5 months of this year. From January to May 1975, 1244 000 working days were lost. The amount of working time lost as a result of industrial stoppages was more than one-third lower this year than it was last year. The reason the figure is lower this year is that we had a wages policy- namely, a wage indexation policy- which was working. It had dampened down industrial conflict and industrial turmoil. Man days lost as a result of strikes fell by 35 per cent this year. This shows a decline in industrial militancy, the reverse of the situation the Minister is attempting to portray in this cynical and, indeed, provocative statement which has been brought down in the House today. 
The portrayal of the Medibank strike as another example of irresponsible militancy is equally absurd. The Medibank strike was certainly both politically and industrially motivated. We do not deny that for a moment. This was because the Government, which had promised to retain Medibank, broke its promise. It introduced charges which themselves reduced the real disposable income in the pockets of wage and salary earners and others in this countrya deliberately provocative act. Turning to economic strategy, the Minister speaks as if the Government were pursuing the only economic strategy available to it and that an attack on real wages is an essential part of that strategy. This is an inadequate statement. Firstly, inflation is not the principle cause of unemployment. Lack of demand is the principle cause of unemployment. Lack of demand comes partly from the import leakage, as the Minister says, but a more important factor is the reduction in the level of government spending. If real government outlays were increased in Australia, as they are in all other major Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries, unemployment would not be as high as it is. 
Furthermore, of course, there is a lack of confidence amongst consumers. They are, to use the current jargon, squirrelling away their savings into deposit accounts. They are not spending because they fear unemployment and because they are suffering a Government which does not focus on unemployment. Yet, the honourable member for Murray brings into the House the proposition that we should turn to what is being done in this area in the United Kingdom. In the United Kingdom, the demand is very much related to the country's exports, as the honourable member for Murray ought to know. The situation in that country is quite different to that existing in this country where future employment is related to consumer confidence. It is related to the consumersthe residents- of this country getting out and spending. Of course, they will not spend if their real incomes are being attacked in the way they are being attacked as we see outlined in the statement which we are debating now. 
It is repetitive to have to draw attention yet again to the distortions in economic policy being forced on Australia by this Government. But it is important to stress that the ruthless destruction of cost effective public programs by this illinformed and economically incompetent Government is forcing rising unemployment and slower economic growth on the Australian community. As I have said before, a selective stimulatory Budget strategy could have been adopted which would have reinforced the economic recovery which began in the last half of 1975 rather than running the danger of aborting that recovery, as this Government has done. It is doing more than running that danger, it has now, as every indicator shows, aborted the recovery. Such carefully used instruments as the selective stimulatory spending by government, which we in the Opposition have advocated, would have contributed to reducing unemployment by now without in any way stimulating inflation. This Government is quite inconsistent in the policies it is adopting if it is suggesting that in the Budget it has recently brought down it is focusing attention on economic recovery. It is not. It is creating further timidity on the part of those people in the community who are squirrelling away their savings rather than bringing about that economic confidence which is so necessary. This statement by the Minister- this attack on the real wages of the people in the community- is but one further example of the attack on the consumers of this country and on their confidence. 
As I have suggested already and reassert now, the Government's wages policy is naive. There was widespread community criticism of and the unions were naturally antagonised by, the Government's failure to honour the election promise of support for wage indexation. The Government's aim of reducing real wages is both unwise and unnecessary. It is unwise because the indexation system was working well. As long as wage earners knew that they would be compensated automatically for the effects of price increases they could limit their increasing wage expectations to sharing in the effects of productivity improvements, after a gap agreed to in the social compact, during which time all productivity gains could go to stimulating investment or, in a few cases, to limiting wage increases to the correction of anomalies. These were the old principles on which wages policies in this country were based. They were good principles and they were seen to be working. The Opposition believes that the more regularity and certainty we can retain in wage setting, the more effective co-operation between all parties there is likely to be. The decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission should have been to retain full wage indexation. But if partial indexation were introduced, the Opposition believes that the cut off point should have been at a higher level- for example, at the level of average weekly earnings of about $175 for males- rather than at the level of average award wages as has been the case. This would have reduced the impact of introducing plateau indexation and it would have prevented hardship to lower income earners while slightly reducing differentials among those who can afford a small real decrease in their incomes without causing a rash of margin claims which inevitably will follow if margins are disrupted as they are being disrupted by national wage case decisions right now. 
The Government's wages policy has been unnecessary because it seems to have been based on some confusion. Government leaders have implied that for profits to increase and recovery to occur, real wages must fall. This was reasserted in the statement that we are debating today. This just is not so. This confuses wage levels with the share of wages in national income and profit rates with the share of profits in national income. The way to increase the profit share is to encourage economic recovery. It is well known that the share of profits rises in a boom and falls in a recession. The profit share is low at present because the economy is still in a cyclical trough. But in spite of it being low overall, we notice that the latest publications of profit figures for the year ended 30 June 1976- when wage indexation applied almost throughout the total year- show that these profit rates have been increasing. The fact is that they should be adjusted for current value accounting reasons before we draw any comparisons. But even with such adjustments, the profit rates have improved under wage indexation. If sustained recovery occurs, the share profits in income will rise again encouraging business to invest, so enhancing the recovery further. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I suggest that such a policy of focusing on recovery should be followed instead of adopting this policy of ensuring that the timid spenders of this country save rather than get out and spend. I suggest that we are ensuring this latter course by following the policies outlined in the statement that we are debating today. Such policies are ill-informed and we should reject them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Were  Sir John  Crawford and  Dr Helen  Hughes commissioned by the Australian Development Assistance Agency in mid 1975 to report on the feasibility of establishing an Institute of Development Studies in Australia and associated issues. 
Were any other people commissioned to prepare a report on these issues at the same time. 
Did  Sir John  Crawford and  Dr Helen  Hughes prepare (a) a joint report or (b) separate reports. 
What costs were involved in the preparation of the report or reports. 
When did  Sir John  Crawford and  Dr Helen  Hughes present their report or reports. 
Are the reports classified; if so, why, and when does the Government intend to release the reports. 
Does the Government intend to establish an Institute of Development Studies. 
-Is the Treasurer aware that stock exchange indices fell after the share markets had had time to absorb both his statement of 20 May and his Budget Speech? Does this suggest that the Government's tactic of leaking previews of major policy announcements leads only to disappointed expectations? Does it also suggest that the effect of the Government's economic policies has been reduced business confidence? 
-This Bill is part of the legislative program resulting from the Governments policies and strategies in 2 areas. The first area is Federal-State relations and the second is the Governments economic and Budget policy strategy. The Government's much vaunted new federalism policy seems destined to follow many of the governments other so-called initiatives, namely, down the path to mangled confusion. The uncertainty that the future holds for Federal-State relations probably will rival the confusion and uncertainty which have surrounded and unfortunately still surround the Government's changes to Medibank. We must remember that the Government's chopping and changing over the health insurance plans followed an election undertaking promising to leave Medibank basically unchanged. We had the Medibank Bills before us in this House earlier this afternoon. I wonder what further changes will be made during the passage of those Bills through this Parliament. On the other hand, the federalism policy which is very much a part of this BUI is supposed to be a brand new deal. One can imagine the problems which will face this Government in implementing a new deal if the Medibank fiasco is an example of how something which is basically unchanged comes through this Parliament. 
To date the Government has introduced only the initial stages of its federalism policy. Basically it has replaced the old general purpose revenue formula with a designated percentage of income tax. Already the differences between the federalism policy theory and its practise are becoming very clearly evident. In theory the new federalism policy is supposed to place the States in a better financial position because it will give them access to a growth tax, namely personal income tax, and because it will give them greater freedom in making decisions because there will be an increase in the untied grants at the expense of tied grants. The reality, on the other hand, is quite different. Although total general revenue assistance grants based on personal income tax entitlements and special grants have been increased in 1976-77 by 20.3 per cent on the figures for 1975-76, the increase has been more than offset in real terms by the paltry 5 per cent total general purpose capital funds. These capital funds are the main subject of this Bill. With an exhibition of the sleight of hand with which this Government has become quite expert, the Federal Government gives the States more revenue and freedom with one hand and takes them away with the other. It is all very well to give the States more financial assistance grants money and to urge them to spend it as they see fit, but what freedom do the States have if it is virtually preordained that they have to use this money to make up for real decreases in the other grants which were given to them previously? 
The truth of the matter is that the new federalism, which we have heard so much about, is a sham. The Federal Government has decided that public sector spending must be cut back. The States have no alternative but to go along with it. For the next 12 months the States in aggregate will be placed in a worse position than they were in before. In fact, they have been placed in a no growth situation. Total payment to the States and local government, when adjusted for Medibank prepayments, have risen by 12.6 per cent on the figure for 1975-76- barely in line with the rate of inflation. Without the Medibank adjustment there has been a real decline of 5 per cent in funds going to the States because the increase is only 7.2 per cent with an inflation rate, admitted in the Budget documents, of over 12 per cent. This means that the States will have to reduce the services they offer, or if they happen to want freedom to follow policies different from Federal Government policies they will have to impose additional taxes. This is the sort of freedom of action that the new federalism offers the States- the freedom enjoyed by that fellow who languished somewhere between the devil and the deep blue sea. 
I now outline other aspects of the Government's federalism policy which promise much but which yield very little. The tax sharing agreement was supposed to reduce the demeaning haggling which occurred in the past at Premiers conferences. It has not to date reduced that haggling and it will not do so. The arguments will be over the size of the percentage rather than the betterment factor or some part of the formula. State Premiers have already pointed to the need to push up the percentage in the future because they realise how tax indexation will reduce the growth in revenue they have been used to receiving in the past. The spectacle which ensued after the States discovered that estimates for tax receipts this financial year were lower than the amount of revenue actually received should convince anyone who needs convincing that the new system does nothing to overcome the conflicts of the past. The Federal Government keeps open the options of imposing special tax surcharges to which the States will now have access. Nobody has explained how the States will react to this. The administrative problems with implementing State tax surcharges after stage one have not been spelt out. The future of specific purpose grants has not been detailed. There are still more questions about the ultimate form of the Government's federalism policy than there are answers to what has happened. The steps taken so far have done nothing towards bringing to fruition the theory of the policy which sounded so magnificent during the election campaign. All that has happened is that total funds to the States have been reduced in real terms. The States will have to decrease their provision of goods and services that many people, especially in our cities but also in the countryside, see as important to them. If they do not do so, they will have to impose additional taxes which must have the effect of exacerbating the inflationary problems. 
As I said earlier, this Bill is the legislative expression of sections of two of the Government's major policy stances. Firstly, there is the federalism policy which I have been discussing and, secondly, this Bill is part of the Government's overall economic strategy which is contained within the Budget which is still before this House. During my reply to the Budget I stressed that this year's Budget was excessively restrictive and was not what was needed in an economy in at least the embryonic stages of recovery, even if we accepted that it was at that stage. It has become clear that the Budget has been framed on the premise of an economy firmly on the way to recovery and around a massive gamble, the gamble of a private sector recovery unparalleled in recent times. The justification for this gamble has been the Government's argument that noninflationary recovery can be achieved only through the private sector. However, as each new indicator reveals, despite what the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said in answer to a question I asked in the House today, there are no firm signs of recovery whatsoever and it is becoming more and more evident that the Budget was framed on a view of what the Government wanted the economy to look like at this stage rather than what the economy actually does look like at this stage. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for instance, in an address to the United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association conference on 9 July 1976 gave his version of the state of the economy. He said that he saw 'a number of leading economic indicators pointing to recovery'. He also said that although there were conflicting signs amongst the indicators, positive indications were more widespread. Despite the emergence since then of 2 sets of unemployment figures showing a further weakening of the labour market, despite such indicators as retail sales figures being down, motor vehicle registration figures being down and so on- in spite of all these things and the great number of indicators pointing to the absurdity of the presumption of a firm recovery underway- the Government has persisted in bringing down a Budget, of which this Bill is a part, which gives virtually no aggregate stimulus to the economy. It is a Budget completely inappropriate for the circumstances. 
It is almost as if the Budget was all wrapped up in May when the Government perhaps did most of its considerations on the economy and it decided to ignore any developments after that. The Government came in on a wing and a prayer and things just are not happening the way the Government hoped they would. I do not want to set out to be a prophet of doom. I am only suggesting that the indicators are equivocal. I wish we had strong evidence of recovery, but we do not. No amount of looking through rose coloured glasses by the Government will give us some hopes of recovery. What we need is economic action. That is what is required and the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill would have been an ideal vehicle for the Government to start with this action. 
Within a week of the Budget being brought down, economic commentators were describing its strategy as tottering. Within 3 weeks of its being brought down, we had rumours of a minibudget, which are still rife around the place. There were rumours of the Treasury already having told the Treasurer that his Budget would not work. We have to look only at the  Sunday Telegraph  of last Sunday to see the reports of strong rumours from a stable which is very much in the Government's pocket of a mini- budget being prepared already because of the gross miscalculation of this Government in framing the present Budget now before the Parliament. While some of these rumours may be lacking in credibility, they all point to the same general feeling, namely, that the Government must do something and that it is not doing something about unemployment and the grave state of the economy. 
I have often stressed the view that the Government's preoccupation with deficits and with a desire for balanced budgets had strait-jacketed economic policy in this country. The Government has refused to use the government sector as countries throughout the world have used the government sector, that is, as a lever to help the economy out of recession. Everyone who urges this step is described, as I have been, by the Treasurer as arguing for higher, not lower, unemployment and as a proponent of government spending excesses. This is not so, as more and more people, including people within the Treasurer's own party are coming to realise. I commend the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in particular for what he is saying and, I hope, for the influence that he may be having along these lines. People are coming to reaslise the truth of what we in the Opposition are saying in these matters. 
The Government identifies the rise in government expenditure in 1974-75 and also in 1975-76 as one of the base causes of our problems. It refused to acknowledge that the increases in public expenditure were a reaction to and not a cause of high unemployment. Obviously, if the Government's analysis of the cause of the problem is wrong, its remedies for the ailment will be ineffective. I repeat that in advocating modest increases in government spendingselective stimulatory expenditure- I am not advocating the printing of money, an increase in the growth of the money supply or an increase to such an extent that will raise interest rates. But I am asserting that there could be more government spending in this country at this time with a higher deficit without having to resort to increases in the money supply or increases in interest rates. I draw to the attention of the Government the many informed commentators on the capital market of this country who are saying just that. 
The Government defends its policies with the cry that inflation must be brought down before sound economic recovery can be ensured. It makes no concessions to the entrenchment of dis.tortions and the permanent structural imbalances which will emerge in an economy where policy is directed only to one goal to the exclusion of all the others. The Prime Minister himself has spoken of the high cost of unemployment- $600m permanently lost each year for every 1 per cent of unemployment. Yet the Government fails to come to grips with this problem. It fails to face up to the fact that its attempts to release resources from the public sector to the private sector are merely releasing those resources to further unemployment. The economy must be brought back into a path of definite recovery. The longer we are in recession, the more extreme the problems associated with recovery will be. 
A depressing scenario of mini-budgets, overly quick reflation and boom and bust conditions is already beginning to emerge. What confidence will investors have now if they feel that minibudgets will be introduced in the Parliament in November, February or whenever? The Government has the solution in its own hands. It must admit that it has erred. It has been erring in the ways I have outlined since it slashed government spending early in January. It must admit it has erred. It must admit that its Budget was far too restrictive. It must begin actively to encourage recovery. Granted, the Treasurer talks of confidence and recovery with consumers increasing their spending. But surely in view of the Government's policy of reducing real wages, this must be regarded as absurd. In fact, I go further than that to state that surely the indicators of increased saving within the community rather than spending and the indicators of retail sales figures must lead one to this conclusion. 
Since the beginning of this year- indeed, since I took over as Labor spokesman on the economy- I have consistently put the view that the 1975-76 Budget- the one brought down in the Parliament this time last year- pared government expenditure to the limit compatible with recovery and that the Government's cutbacks would worsen and not improve the situation. I have argued that public spending can and should be used to get the economy moving. In doing this, I have been mindful of the need to control the money supply to a reasonable growth rate. I have been mindful also of the fact that we must not force up interest rates. But I have not been mesmerised by deficits. They have been recognised for what they are and have been in recent times- an indication of a shortfall in receipts due to recession. That was the explanation for the deficit in the past financial year. 
The Labor alternative to the restrictive policies of the Government is as I shall now outline. We want a program of selective stimulatory expenditure, that is, the Government spends money in those areas where capacity is under-utilised and where resources are under-employed. The Bill we are debating here this evening would be an ideal vehicle for this expenditure. We all know that the building and construction element of public outlays has a greater impact on economic growth than any other form of government spending. Economists call it a big multiplier effect. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  who will follow me on behalf of the Opposition in this debate, will concentrate on the fact that what the Government has done in this Bill has been to reduce the real level of funds for the construction industry. Employment in the building industry fell by 50 000 or 1 1 per cent between May 1975 and May 1 976. In New South Wales alone, at the end of July there were 6124 unemployed skilled building and construction workers. This compared with 3698 at the end of July 1975. In the skilled metal and electrical category 52 15 people were out of work at the end of July. These are the categories of productive workers whom the Government is prepared apparently to see stay idle because it refuses to follow the path that the Opposition has suggested. Because of its preoccupation with cutting back the public sector, these idle resources stay idle. 
Much has been said about the problems of the young unemployed in recent days. The Opposition brought forward an urgency motion on this subject only yesterday. We hope that the rumours that the Government may have something in the pipeline devoted to overcoming this tragic situation are correct. As I have said, even the Government now seems to admit that something must be done. This great social as well as economic problem is an ideal target for selective government expenditure. A graphic impression of the seriousness of the problem is gained by looking at the statistics for leavers from schools, universities and other educational institutions. In 1976, 9400 persons returned to school because they could not find work. One in seven of those who did enter the work force were still unemployed last May. Not only can we reduce unemployment by this selective expenditure, but we can train the young people and provide for the future skilled workers who will help to prevent widespread bottle-necks when the economy eventually recovers. I repeat: This problem of the young unemployed is not only a social problem; it is an economic problem. We in the Opposition believe that eventually recovery will come to this country in spite of the Government's policies. When that recovery comes skilled young workers will be required. Now is the time for selective government spending in this specific area. 
I have concentrated on the uses to which funds which are made available to the States in Bills such as this may be put in generating employment. This does not mean that we are ignoring inflation as a problem. Levels of unemployment can be lowered without exacerbating inflation. The most dangerous element emerging in the continuing fight against inflation is the Government's antagonistic policy towards the unions and its moves towards the abandonment of indexation. Widespread industrial unrest and wage demands are definitely not what is required at present, but the confrontation policies of the Government as opposed to the co-operation policies of the Opposition are what is leading to this situation. For sound and sustained econmomic recovery, slow but sure and ordered progress is required. Wage indexation and cooperation with the unions brings order to the economy while the use of selective government expenditure of the type which this Bill makes available can ensure that faint signs of recovery are strengthened. Recovery itself will bring a restoration of the profit share and help to alleviate inflation as unit costs fall. The picture which will emerge if the Government continues to ignore calls for selective increases in State grant funds are grim indeed. The Government must admit that its Budget over-estimated the strength of recovery. The only alternative view is that the Government has a vested interest in continued recession. The consequences of that are horrible indeed. 
It is for these reasons that I move an Opposition amendment in the following terms: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not opposing the second reading of the Bill the House is of the opinion that- 
it reduces in real terms the funds available to the States; 
it forces the States to reduce the services they provide and /or to impose additional taxes; 
it results in an increase in the number of people out of work; 
it fails to stimulate the non-residential sector of the building and construction industry, and 
it fails to provide sufficient funds for selective stimulatory expenditure to revive the Australian economy'. 
Ostensibly the Telecommunications Amendment Bill 1976 is a straightforward machinery measure which opens the way for the Australian Telecommunications Commission to borrow from the domestic loan market. Telecom will borrow in accordance with terms and conditions approved by the Loan Council for semi-government authorities. To enable Telecom to compete on an equal footing with State semi-government authorities, one of the principal purposes of this Bill is to exempt transactions involving the Commission's securities from State stamp duties. If that were not done in this Bill, subscribers to Telecom securities could be made liable to pay stamp duty under State or Territory legislation. Also, transfers of Telecom securities would be dutiable under some State legislation. That would place the Australian Telecommunications Commission at a disadvantage when compared with State borrowing authorities. The remainder of the Bill gives specific authority for the Commission to issue securities which will have repayment of capital and interest guaranteed by the Australian Government. 
The second reading speech on the Bill, which was read by the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson),  points out these features with clarity. However, what it does not do is give a justification for the necessity for the Bill at all. It is true that Telecom has an approved capital expenditure program of $9l0m for the current financial year, 1976-77. In line with the Vernon recommendations for the operations of Telecom, 54 per cent of the $9 10m will come from internal sources and 24 per cent will come from Commonwealth advances. Approximately 50 per cent has come from those advances in previous years instead of the 24 per cent now coming from the advances in the current financial year, but to make up the difference this year $200m, or 22 per cent, will come via the domestic loan market- the capital market. The Government has given no real reason, either in the second reading speech or on any other occasion, for a change in the procedure which applied previously; nor has it said why it has decided that the amount to be borrowed is $200m. Perhaps the Minister Assisting the Treasurer will help us in winding up this debate by answering those 2 questions. In the meantime, I can only speculate. The only rationale given for the change has been this observation: 
Annual borrowings of the Commission have reached a very substantial figure in terms of the Commonwealth Budget and, in the Government's view, it is appropriate that the Commission should seek a portion of these funds this year from the capital market as an alternative to direct funding from the Budget. 
I think that any objective observer would realise that that phrase is meaningless and does not give the answers to the questions I raised. 
Perhaps here we find the crux of the matter. The Government is not interested in the substance of the justification for a public sector business enterprise like Telecom competing on the open market for funds. It is simply concerned that as much as possible of Telecom's funding be done outside the Budget sector. It is concerned to limit the paper value of government expenditures, the paper value of the deficit. In the Government's mind, this Bill is a device to manipulate the deficit, and I make the claim that it is a crude fiddle. While the Bill itself is a straightforward machinery matter, the decision from which it stems was the end product of a cynical campaign of misrepresentation, indeed of downright deceit, concerning the cause and implications of the Budget deficits which existed in the last years of the Labor Government. The present Liberal-National Country Party Government found when it came to power that it was unable, even with a brutal and unnecessary slashing of Government spending, to reduce the deficit to a level compatible with its cries while it was in Opposition. It learned that there were good and valid reasons for the level of the deficit. The Government was caught in its own web, and had to resort to a number of accounting manipulations in order to achieve a sellable level of deficit in the current Budget without making itself look more stupid than it does now. 
The decision to force Telecom to the domestic market was one of the Government's deficit arrangements. It is common knowledge that Treasury opposed the decision, recognising it for the cynical move that it is. Valid concern was expressed that a loan of this magnitude may have an adverse effect on semi-government interest rates generally. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has not come to grips with any of these issues, nor has the Minister Assisting the Treasurer in the second reading speech.  His  and his Government's cynical attempt to discredit the Government by misrepresenting every possible feature of Labor's last Budget deficit have threatened the existence of continued enlightened debate on the issue of deficits. 
The absolute absurdity of the propaganda pouring forth from the Opposition in the early months of the last financial year is nowhere better exemplified than in the Treasurer's statement on the August Statement of Financial Transactions which has recently been released. The Budget deficit for the first 2 months of this financial year was $ 1,456m, compared with the lesser figure of $ 1,071m for the same 2 months of last year. Doing the same calculations that honourable members opposite were fond of doing last year when in Opposition, we may predict that we are heading for a deficit of $8.4 billion for this financial year. However, the Treasurer pointed out in his statement that no indication of the full year's deficit could be obtained from the figures of 2 months. It is a pity that he was not so accurate and responsible in his advice to his colleagues last year. We are not, of course, heading for a deficit of $8 billion this year, nor were we heading for a deficit of $6 billion last year, in spite of the false claims made by the then Opposition. 
Not content with a sojourn into the game of 'Guess The Deficit', the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  came into the fray with his election assertion that every man, woman and child owed the Government $500 because of the deficit. The misrepresentation that that involved was so monumental that it prompted a group of academic economists to take the Prime Minister to task in the national newspapers. To what extent the Prime Minister's mischief at that time was believed we do not know. Hopefully his statement on this subject was treated with the same scepticism with which his election promises will be treated in the future. 
Even when this Government came into power the preoccupation with a deficit overrode all else. Cutting the deficit became a priority of policy rather than the end result of required outlays and receipt decisions. In February and March the Treasurer was predicting a deficit of $4.7 billion in the last financial year. At the end of the financial year, when the deficit was indeed found to be $3.58 billion, even when inflated by a $200m Medibank pre-payment, the Treasurer took the credit on behalf of the Government for the reduction of the deficit from $4.7 billion. In a statement the Treasurer recalled: . . . 'that at the beginning of 1976 and before allowing for the present Government's economy measures the deficit was estimated at $4.7 billion*. 
We were not told who made the estimate. The Treasurer went on to say: ... the Budget result some $l,100m lower than this, represented a considerable achievement by the Government. 
What cant that is. I submit that the considerable achievement was in stretching the Government's acknowledged cuts in expenditure of $370m to the $l,100m which he claimed was the amount by which the estimated deficit was lowered. Incidentally, if there had not been cuts in government spending there may have been a return of consumer confidence, and with that a growth in economic health, and with that increased receipts by way of taxation into Government coffers, and with that a still possibly lower deficit -if indeed this Government had not mutilated the public sector by that slashing when it came to power. It seemed that the farce about the deficit ended there, but that was not to be so, as we found later, because along came the Budget and the Telecom arrangement which we are debating today. At least the Government has not compounded its hypocrisy by pretending that this move has any real macro-economic policy implications. But the very fact that it has been done without the full import of the decision being canvassed- certainly not in the second reading speech, as I mentioned earlierhighlights the disservice being done to the Australian community by the debasement of economic debate in relation to deficits, contributed to 12 months ago by members of the Liberal and National Country parties. 
Recently the Treasurer has accused my colleague, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  and others in the Opposition of talking down the economy. A fair go is asked by the Treasurer for the Government's policies. Surely the blatant hypocrisy of such criticism, coming from a government which in Opposition conceived and engineered the greatest talk down of the economy in history, must be evident to all. This Opposition, unlike our predecessors who are now in government, is interested not in talking down the economy but in finding the right path to recovery. Our criticisms, our evaluation of the present trends, are all made in the hope that the Government will abandon what we and others, including some government members, consider to be inappropriate policies for present circumstances. This country needs a government which will do something for the economy, not one which will search in every nook and cranny for someone or something to blame for lack of success and lack of confidence. The Labor Opposition policies in the field of wage determination and in advocating selective stimulatory spending represent a positive and viable alternative economic strategy at this time, and certainly are not talking down the economy. Desired levels of government expenditure and money supply targets are legitimate subjects for public debate. Hysterical deficit misrepresentations are not legitimate in debate. It is hoped that in the future the Government will turn its mind to debating the real issues surrounding a measure such as the one which is before us at the present time. 
Our concern for debate on the real issues of the deficit, the manner in which it is funded, cannot be interpreted as a call for limitless deficits or for massive expansions in government spending. We realise that money supply growth must be kept within reasonable limits in a time of inflation, and that means that deficits must be kept within . bounds. Those deficits must not put pressure on interest rates in satisfying government borrowing requirements. The Treasurer has given a target for money supply growth for the next financial year. Some commentators have thought it too restrictive and have thought that it implies a growth rate significantly below that required to match expected price and growth targets. That may be so. The Opposition is watching the situation closely and will be monitoring it from month to month. But what is already becoming obvious is that the Government's own target could be met without crowding out or increasing interest rates if the Budget deficit was several hundred million dollars higher than it is at the present time. 
I have dwelt at some length on the issue of the deficit, for increasing the apparent deficit appears to be the Government's prime consideration in introducing this Bill. Nevertheless, this move does open up a whole series of questions about its desirability in absolute terms. Perhaps it is right that public sector business operations, such as Telecom, should and should be seen to raise finance outside the Budget sector. Perhaps the Government borrowing umbrella provides a business undertaking such as Telecom, and other business undertakings in the public sector, with a form of subsidy which another service may more appropriately deserve. It is possible that sending public enterprises, such as Telecom, to the money market, the capital market, in their own right may, by increasing the variety of scrip offering or available, secure more funds for much needed public enterprises. It may lead to an overall increase in the efficiency with which the economy uses its investable funds. These are all proper questions to be raised in a debate such as this. The decision behind the introduction of this Bill, however, opens up not only these questions but also many more questions. The Government has not seen fit to open up the discussion in the way that we believe it should have been opened up. 
We in the Opposition wish to raise these questions. We are not opposing the Bill, but we deplore the fact that the Government has evaded the real issues of the Bill. The Government has the resources to investigate all the ramifications of a move such as this one and to tell the House of those things in a second reading speech made on a Bill such as this one. It has not done so. It is difficult, with the sparse resources available to an Opposition, to be dogmatic one way or another about raising funds on a capital market in this way, but it is obvious that further discussion is necessary. These are some of the matters which should be raised in that discussion, and I believe the manner in which Telecom approached the market should also come under scrutiny. There has been speculation in the  Australian Financial Review  about the approach by Telecom to the Australian capital market. This could be put down to inexperience in these matters. However, I would like to see a reply in the  Australian Financial Review  from Telecom to the questions raised in the article and I note from the look on the face of the Minister assisting the Treasurer that he has also read this article. 
I believe more than anything else, if there are any questions to be raised or criticisms to be levelled in relation to that approach, the fault lies with the Government in the undue haste with which it sought response from Telecom in the market. Being forced to do so by a Government decision it did not expect may have brought about mistakes, if there have been mistakes. It was a decision which was made without full recognition of all the factors involved. To summarise, the Opposition is not opposing this Bill. At the same time, because of all the questions which we believe require to be raised on an occasion like this, I move: 
That all words after 'Thai' be omitted with a view lo substituting the following words: 'whilst not opposing the second reading of the Bill the House is of the opinion that the Government should be condemned- 
for stressing the importance of the magnitude of the deficit instead of the importance of the method of financing the deficit, and 
b ) for alleging that the deficit had been reduced by $200 million when that sum was being borrowed directly by Telecom from the Australian capital market'. 
I make the claim that this move by the Government was in the form of a sleight of hand. It was hoist by its own petard; it was caught in its own web in misleading the Australian people about the importance of deficits. Deficits are not important. It is the way that they are financed that is important. It would not have mattered one iota if this $200m had not been directly sought from the Australian capital market by Telecom but had been sought by the Government in the normal course of its loan raisings. The money may have been raised more cheaply in that way. But we do not know the answers to these questions because the Government has not paid this House the courtesy in the second reading speech of giving it the answers to these legitimate questions. Because that has not happened, it is right and proper that the Opposition should move an amendment such as this one on this occasion. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What are (a) the salaried positions and (b) the organisations by which they are employed of all the members of the Economic Consultative Group. 
In what industrial or union organisations do each of the members of the Economic Consultative Group have voluntary or paid positions. 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that an extremely severe rundown in bank liquidity was avoided in the last months of last financial year by the unprecedented action of the Reserve Bank of Australia in buying commercial bills? Is it also a fact that interest rates are now being kept up unnecessarily high in a climate in which a fall was expected as a result of the Reserve Bank's allowing these commercial bills to mature instead of being rolled over? Is this maintenance of higher interest rates an object of Government policy? 
I am seconding the motion. The reason for the motion is that the Labor Opposition is fighting for the usual traditions of this Parliament against the jackboot majority of the Liberal and National Country Parties. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the honourable member for Adelaide be not further heard. 
-That letter and that quotation from the South African  Hansard  show what a tragic situation still exists in South Africa.  Mr Hassan  Howa concluded his letter by pointing out what an important issue was the New Zealand All Blacks rugby tour of South Africa. By this action today we have identified ourselves with that tour, to the embarrassment, as the Leader of the Opposition has shown, not only of ourselves but also of the Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs at the United Nations. 
-Of so little importance does our conservative Government consider racist policies and the reputation of our nation amongst the vast majority of the world's people that not only was the Foreign Minister  (Mr Peacock)  not present; the Acting Foreign Minister  (Mr Sinclair)  also failed to grace the chamber with his presence. I have just worked out that instead, from a pecking order of twenty-four, we have just heard from the 21st ranking Minister in the Government. That demonstrates the importance that the Government places on what is a most important issue. 
Whilst the Australian Labor Party was in power there were no contacts between New Zealand and South Africa in sport just as there were no contacts between Australia and South Africa in sport. One reason for this, quite apart from the fact that there was a good Labor government in New Zealand, was the cost incurred in transporting sporting teams to South Africa. It is noted in relation to the last visit by the All Blacks to South Africa that the team did not travel through this country. It is extraordinary that the present Government has now allowed this to happen, as it is extraordinary also that it takes so little account of the importance of this issue that it serves up the 2 1st ranking member of the Ministry to speak for the Government on the issue. Once again a smokescreen tactic has been used. The 2 1 st ranking Minister has made a personal attack on the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  instead of devoting himself to the proper issues of the racist policies of South Africa and how they are fostered by sporting tours of that country. 
I visited South Africa just over a year ago. I made sure that I did not have the normal white tour of that country. I met the oppressed in that tragic country. I attended the so-called treason trial of South African students in Pretoria. The crime of those students was that they had gathered together in a meeting to protest against the racist laws of their country. I visited good, courageous people- white, black and coloured- who had been house arrested, banned and oppressed. Some of them had spent long terms in prison, including imprisonment on Robin Island. I spoke to those political leaders who were free to speak. Of course, not all are free to speak. Nelson Mandela was in prison and I was unable to visit him. I visited a couple of incredibly poor black towns outside the white cities. They were inhuman places where the conditions were ghastly. I came out of South Africa far angrier than I went in. 
My time is short. Let me quote from some cryptic notes I made in an aeroplane on coming away from that place. I noted how there is such a need for radical change among the vast majority of the white people in that country. I hope that change will come about peacefully. I noted how the Government uses 'ferocious powers of executive action'. It has statutes like the Affected Organisation Act, the Unlawful Organisation Act and the Suppression of Communism Act. I noted how the security branch's action in that country have caused some people to be charged and others to be detained for long periods of time and how still others have fled from South Africa. I noted how so many of those who have been detained are held incommunicado without any charges being laid against them. I noted how there are, however, splendid and courageous people in that country, particularly in its churches, who are fighting within that country against this police state. I mention in particular the Christian Institute, which has now been declared an affected organisation. I also mentioned in the cryptic notes the propaganda machine of the South African Broadcasting Commission. That is the sort of society that is defended by some of the more mindless supporters of the Government on an occasion such as this. 
There is a strong contrast between  Mr Vorster's  move towards detente abroad on the one hand and the lack of effort that he and his Nationalist Government have made towards detente at home. In fact, he has been exacerbating internal policies of detention and so on towards those people who are fighting against the oppression in that country. I came away from that country with this quotation: 
A nation cannot be great when it is built on the misery of the vast majority of the people. 
That is the situation in South Africa at the moment. My one dominant impression at the time was that there was need for radical change. My one dominant hope was for that change to be peaceful and not violent. This visit was before what happened in Angola. This visit was before the heightening of the tensions in Rhodesia. This visit was before the recent riots, with tragic loss of life, in Soweto, in Cape Town and in so many other black cities of that tragic country. This visit was before the vast majority of the white people in South Africa realised how close was violent change. But how many of them know it now? They are still being soothed by their Nationalist political leaders into believing that the riots are some communist plot and that the police will control them. So many whites in South Africa are living in a fool 's paradise. 
There is but one hope for these tragic peopleblack and white- in South Africa if more violence is to be averted and that is that there be detente at home as well as abroad for them and that there be an incredibly radical change in the thinking of the overwhelming majority of white people into realising that a multi-racial society that is built on the principle of human dignity for all- black as well as white- is the only hope for their future. That is where we in this country can play a part. 
There is a sporting culture in that country like there is in this country. I may have come away from that tragic country angry, but I was also proud of the actions taken in this country by progressive people- progressive Australians partly led by courageous South African refugees- in instituting sporting boycotts. They have had and are having a wonderful effect. These sporting boycotts have been the most successful means of slowly changing the thinking of some white South Africans. They have been most wonderful encouragement- a tonic- for those whites and blacks in that country who are working for that radical change peacefully. It was not comfortable to be a member of the Australian Labor Party in South Africa, but I was certainly proud to be one because of the actions of the Labor Government in Australia in instituting these boycotts and making the whites in South Africa stop and think about the issues I have outlined. 
With all that we have in common- football, cricket and so on- this is the one way in which we have made whites stop and think. We are not bringing politics into sport. As the Leader of the Opposition has said, South Africa did that. It was the one which chose sporting teams on a racial basis- not us. We will agree to sporting contact again when they take politics out of sport by choosing their sporting teams on a non-racist basis and instituting other non-racist policies in that country. 
If that attitude and those policies were the order of the day when I was in South Africa they are even more so today. The violence inside and outside the country has drawn to the attention of the whole world, including whites in South Africa, how close is the holocaust unless there is a radical change in the minds and hearts of white South Africans. It is our duty to help sympathetically to bring about this change. There is still a long way to go. No knowledgeable observer of sport in South Africa would pretend that there is  non-racial sport there. There have been merely one or two gestures as a form of window dressing. I would like to quote from  Hansard  in South Africa what the South African Minister of Sport and Recreation still has to say about the subject, but as I am running out of time, I seek leave to have the quotation incorporated in  Hansard. 

 The quotation read as follows- 'With regard to reports in the Press that the Transvaal or any other cricket union is contemplating the establishment of mixed club competitions, I now want to state by repetition clearly and frankly that such action will not be in accordance with Government policy and that violation and disregard of the policy of the Government will force us to regard it in a serious light, because it will not promote sport in S.A. 'In a nutshell the policy of the Nationalist Government is one of multi-national development, that each nation practises and administers its sport separately on club level, provincial level and national level, as it has done in S.A. all the years. And that we then say to the sportsmen and to the world that we grant the opportunity to every sportsman and to every sportswoman, irrespective of race or colour or creed, to reach the highest rung, unrestricted, within his own national bounds. And further to grant every sportsman and woman in S.A., irrespective of colour, race, creed or whatever, the opportunity to compete with the sportsmen of other nations in S.A., and with the best sportsmen of any other country in the world.' 
I would also like to have incorporated in  Hansard  a letter from  Mr Hassan  Howa  who is a friend of mine and who was formerly President of the South African Mixed Race Cricket Association. 

 The letter read as follows- 

-Did the Treasurer yesterday clutch at the totally inadequate straw of July instalment credit figures to seek support for his economic policies? 
-The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet has included in its appropriation the amount of $15,885,000 for the Public Service Board under division 516. It is to this division that I relate a few remarks. Since the House last debated the Estimates we have had tabled the report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration, the Coombs Commission report. I believe the document is a magnificent one. I pay tribute to all those responsible. I hope that many, it not all, of its recommendations will see the light of day and will not be pigeonholed. I draw attention to the ideas which have been promoted in the field of formulating economic policy. We desperately need new institutions. The present ones are inadequate. The next Australian Labor Party government which will take over in 1 978 will establish those new institutions. 
For 24 years of the past 27 years we have suffered a conservative government which has worshipped at the shrine of the market, which has paid lipservice to the decisions of the market place- those decisions, it says, being the correct ones- and which has intervened only reluctantly and spasmodically, and therefore inconsistently and unsatisfactorily, in the market place. Because of this we have an administration- we call it a bureaucracy when we want to be unkindwhich in its more powerful areas is completely market oriented or market blinkered. The conservatives of this country in the Liberal Party and the National Country Party and, frankly, the most senior administrators in the Department of the Treasury and other powerful departments, believe that policy should be formulated only for the short term. They believe that the long and medium terms are only a series of short terms. 
We in the Australian Labor Party, in common with all social democrats or democratic socialistsindeed, in common with many conservatives, too, in other parts of the world- reject that concept. We believe that policy should bear in mind and be directed at the medium and long term as well as the short term. We deplore the fact that we do not have the institutions in this country and in our national government to ensure that policies are so directed. We made a start in this area during our short period in government by setting up the Priorities Review Staff which has now, I understand, been absorbed in or lost in the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet- the estimates for which we are now debating- which is acting as a task force in a typically Liberal way by directing its attention to the latest policy crisis area which arises-  ad  hoc-ism stop-and-go-ism. 
I repeat that the next Australian Labor Party government will ensure that there is a senior economic ministry devoted to medium and long term planning. Our Estimates will include provision for this. This has been part of the Labor Party's economic platform for some years. The clause could be altered at our Federal Conference in July of next year but the spirit of the words in the Federal Conference platform will be the same as they are in the present Federal 
Conference platform. This is nothing new. I am forever granting interviews to overseas financial journalists, public servants or politicians who are interested in the financial sphere and who cannot understand why we now have no set of national objectives in this country. 
Even some conservative governments have the necessary institutions, plans and objectives. The Liberal Democratic Government of Japan comes readily to mind. Prime Minister Miki has beside him, as his 2 most senior Ministers, 2 economic Ministers. On one side he has  Mr Fukuda,  his  deputy  Prime Minister and  Chairman  of the Japanese Economic Planning Agency, charged with the medium and long term economic considerations. On the other side he has  Mr Ohira,  the Minister for Finance- the equivalent of our Treasurer- charged with the task of ensuring to the greatest extent possible short term economic equilibrium. It is 2 economic Ministers such as this that we should have here in Australia. I notice that I am quoted in one newspaper today as being in favour of having 2 Treasurers. Although the article is accurate in every other respect, it is not accurate in that respect. I have never mentioned 2 Treasurers. But I repeat that there should be 2 senior economic Ministers, one looking at the medium and long terms and one looking at the short term. 
My Party is considering further details of this concept or proposal in 2 separate committees right now. One committee is the Federal Executive Economic Committee which will be making recommendations to the next Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party to be held in Perth in July of next year. The other committee is the parliamentary Labor Party or Caucus Committee which is looking at the structure of national government departments and statutory authorities in 1978 or before, when we next take over as the national government. We have many proposals to consider. Should we accept the Coombs Royal Commission recommendation for DINDEC- the Department of Industry and the Economy- plus the Economic Consultative Council suggested by that Royal Commission? Perhaps we should be looking at a department, statutory authority or agency of economic planning. The word 'planning' may conjure up too wrong a concept. It conjures up, in some minds, images of directives, bureaucracy and red tape, when all we have in mind, of course, is trying to achieve an indicative plan which is a consensus document. Therefore, would it better called a department, agency or statutory authority of economic objectives? These are the sorts of things that are under active consideration in the progressive party of this country, the Australian Labor Party. 
But the need is clear. We must have a wide range of people, such as there was on the Jackson Committee- people from the private sector, from the State governments, from the unions and from academia- going out to the country, receiving submissions about what should be our national objectives and making recommendations to the government. When the elected Cabinet agrees on those recommendations- it is that elected Ministry which must have the final say- those plans about growth rates must be converted into energy needs, manpower needs, immigration needs and education needs in order to make decisions on what should be the key industries, decisions on the protection of full employment in this country and decisions in many other related areas. Of course, the indicative plans- the objectiveswill be altered often. It is impossible to foretell all that is around the corner. For instance, who foretold the upward hike in oil prices imposed by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries? Changes in circumstances mean changes in plans. What is important in plans- these objectives- is that we have thought through the relationship. 
We know, if our elected government decides on a 4 per cent growth rate, what this means in terms of energy needs, in terms of allocation of resources to the various areas in our economy and so on. If circumstances mean that the growth rate will be 6 per cent instead of 4 per cent, we know that we have to upgrade our energy plans, our housing needs and so on. Another vital advantage is that the private sector and the State governments have some guidelines on which to base their policies. At the moment they have none. The plans are there to be changed when circumstances change. But this does not make them any less useful. Because the objectives have been recommended, under this outline which I have given to the Committee and to the Government, by a wide ranging group and represent a consensus decision, there is a real hope of this being adhered to and being achieved, which is always a worry in a fragmented federalist country such as ours, with the State governments and private sectors to consider. 
Frankly, we do not have a hope of this being instituted under this conservative Government which we are all suffering at the present time; but the Australian Labor Party is offering this to Australia at the next national election. It is our best hope of overcoming the adverse effects of the trade cycle which is inherent in this mixed economy, this capitalist system, in which we live. It is our best hope of achieving full employment. It is our best hope of not allowing ourselves to fall into a situation such as the one facing us now, in which we have not made a decision upon whether we should have a shipbuilding industry and in which we have a Government which may allow 7000 workers and their families to be added to the list of unemployed people. Until we have these objectives, we will not be able to adopt those other admirable recommendations of the Coombs Royal Commission- recommendations such as 3 years forward estimating - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I move: 
That the proposed expenditure for the Department of the Treasury be reduced by $10, as an assertion of the view of the Committee: 
1 ) that the reduction in the real level of government outlays is inducing renewed economic recession, so retarding economic growth and reducing the level of employment below possible levels, and 
(a) that the independence of the Australian Bureau of Statistics should be demonstrated by making it responsible to a Minister other than the Treasurer; 
that the appropriation for the Australian Bureau of Statistics is inadequate for the provision of information necessary for effective policy formation, and 
that the decision to delay processing of census data causes both waste of government funds by leaving unused data on which there has already been a large investment of funds, and reduced effectiveness in policy making through the unavailability of contemporary statistics on many subjects. 
The central error of the Government's fiscal policy is that real public sector demand is decreasing. I am now, of course, speaking to that section of my amendment concerning the assertion that this Government's economic policies are wrong. In the second half of the last financial yearnamely, since the Liberal and National Country Parties took over the government of this countryBudget outlays increased at an annual rate of 9 per cent while public sector prices increased by 16.4 per cent. So real outlays fell at an annual rate of 7.4 per cent between January and June, which is when this Government had taken over, in comparison with the first half of 1 975-76. 
It is not possible to be quite as precise about the current year, but the picture is the same. The approximate situation is that money outlays are expected to increase by 7.8 per cent, excluding the family allowances, which are, of course, completely offset by the increased tax receipts from the abolishing of child rebates. Public sector prices have increased by 3 per cent to 5 per cent faster than the consumer price index in recent years. Since the consumer price index is expected to increase by at least 12 per cent during 1976-77, as is shown in the Budget Papers, public sector prices could be expected to rise by something like 16 per cent. Therefore one has to arrive at the conclusion that real Budget outlays are likely to fall by about 8 per cent during this financial year. Let me repeat this because it is the core of the mistaken approach to economic policy being taken by the Liberal-National Country Party Government. Real Budget outlays are likely to fall by about 8 per cent during this financial year. 
That is an enormous reduction. It can be put in perspective by making a comparison with the position in other Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development countries. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  argues that the Australian policy is consistent with the fiscal policy in the other OECD countries, but, apart from the fact that they are in a different place in the recovery curve, being much higher than this country, the Australian Government has a quite different approach to that of the 4 major OECD countries. In the United States of America real government expenditure increased by 1.3 per cent in 1975 and is forecast to increase by 2.5 per cent in 1 976. In Japan the picture is the same. As the Reserve Bank's annual report for 1975-76 says at page 9, the Japanese recovery was heavily dependent on public sector funding. Public consumption increased by 3.3 per cent in real terms in West Germany in 1975 and is forecast to increase by 2 per cent in 1 976. If I had time I could give figures about the United Kingdom with the same force as I have given them about those other countries. 
The Fraser Government persistently misrepresents this situation. A recent example was the Prime Minister's speech to the Committee of Economic Development of Australia on 6 September in which he gave figures for reductions in Government spending in recent years in some OECD countries. This is quite irrelevant to the central question of economic recovery. Only real changes in outlays matter, and outlays are being reduced. The Government is deliberately and unnecessarily using this major policy instrument, namely, public spending, to depress the Australian economy. 
The results of this approach are becoming better known. The indicators of the level of economic activity are indeed uneven, as the Treasurer said in answer to questions yesterday and today. But in pointing to a supposed recovery, the Treasurer compared the national income figures for the second half of 1975-76 with those for the first half. He did not mention the more relevant figures which compare the fourth quarter of 1975-76, namely, from April to June, with the third quarter. This was brought out by my friend and colleague the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  today in a question that he put to the Treasurer. These figures show that the quarterly real seasonally adjusted rate of growth of gross domestic product fell from 3.6 per cent in the March quarter- that is from January to the end of March when the policies of the Australian Labor Government were applying in this country- to 0.6 per cent in the June quarter after the wrong policies of the Liberal and National Country Parties had come to bear on the economy of this country. That is, the rate of economic growth, which began to pick up as a result of Labor's policies in the latter part of last year, has fallen off again. The rate of economic growth collapsed in the June quarter. 
Of course this has led to the tragic unemployment we are suffering. Seasonally adjusted unemployment is 328 000, 5.4 per cent of the labour force. This is the worst level of unemployment since the Depression. This worst level is directly attributable to the Liberal-National Country Party Government. There are alternatives. I have been putting them time and again both in my speech on the Budget and since. I am delighted now to have the support of the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee),  the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon),  and the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  for some of the alternative Budget strategy which we in the Australian Labor Party Opposition have been putting. Of course, central to that is our belief that we can increase the Budget deficit markedly by about another $500m without increasing interest rates and without adding to the money supply. We can increase it by that amount and spend in selective areas which will stimulate the economy, unlock that lock which is consumer confidence and bring about a quicker recovery than is being allowed by the present Government. 
I must very hurriedly move on to the second part of the Opposition amendment. It relates to the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The apparent independence of the Bureau has been reduced by the Fraser Government's decision to place it under the Treasury. The charge that the Australian Bureau of Statistics has been dominated by the Treasury was repeated only this week in the  Australian Financial Review.  Whether or not this is justified it is nevertheless important to show clearly that the Bureau is independent and innovative. This could be done by transferring responsibility for the Bureau to another Minister. One possibility under the present Government's administration could be for it to go where the Industries Assistance Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal rest, namely, with the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. In a Labor administration, I believe more naturally, all those statutory authorities would rest under the administration of our Minister for economic planning. 
The Opposition and I assert that the staff and the funds allocated to the Bureau are quite inadequate for it to collect and analyse all the data which are essential for the proper economic management of this country. I just give a few quick examples. There is no income and expenditure survey for 1976-77. How on earth are we to know what is causing the squirrelling away of funds into deposits when we want these funds spent in the community if we do not have the necessary raw material to make these decisions, namely the material coming from the Bureau of Statistics? In addition there is inadequate coverage of the service industries. Furthermore there are long delays in the processing of some data relating to manufacturing industry, and there is too little research into statistical methods. The staff of most sections, other than those sections concerned with the census, has been reduced at a time when the staff should be increased. I draw the attention of the Committee to 2 recent articles in the Press about the inadequacy. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Ian . Robinson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has just set the record straight on Timor. The shallow contribution we have just heard from the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr),  the former secretary of the Democratic Labor Party in Western Australia, who now sits in this place as a Liberal, a self-appointed extremistalthough I must confess that I think there are many sitting around him who are in the same camp- with his emphasis on force, on blood and iron I think was one of the expressions he used, changes nothing. It merely exposes the outofdate thinking of so many conservatives in this country who are unable to bring themselves screaming into the twentieth century. 
I want to spend my time on a subject which in this day and age, if we can bring ourselves up to date, is a greater influence on peace than force about which the honourable member for Swan loves to talk. My subject is aid. The Government's lack of commitment to development aid is shown by the following facts. Official development aid for 1 976-77 will be only 0.49 per cent of the gross national product- the lowest percentage of GNP since 1963-64 when it was also 0.49 per cent. The second fact is that the Government has refused to nominate a time by which it will increase the percentage of GNP devoted to aid to the internationally accepted target of 0.7 per cent. I want to compare this with Labor's performance. For the calendar year 1975 aid reached 0.6 1 per cent of GNP, its highest ever level. 
The second point I want to make is the Government's lack of concern for the quality of aid. This is closely interrelated to its unwillingness to guarantee a particular level of funding for aid. Without adequate time for preliminary investigation and consultation with recipients, aid will be haphazard in its effects and it is likely that it will be wasted. It is increasingly recognised that long-run planning is crucial to the success of many sorts of aid.  Major aid  programs may require funding over a period of several years and there needs to be some certainty, some commitment, that adequate funding will continue before programs can be gone ahead with. Imagine the difficulty aid planners face when governments, on the one hand, pledge to increase aid to 0.7 per cent of GNP and, on the other hand, make arbitrary cuts in the expected level of funding. It was with these considerations in mind that a group of the leaders of the major non-government aid agencies, at a meeting in Canberra in April, moved a resolution calling upon the Government to:  . . . make a public commitment to spend 0.7 per cent of GNP on development assistance by 1980. 
The second part of the resolution called upon the Government 'as a first step' to allocate 0.55 per cent of GNP in 1976-77 financial year 'increasing by 0.05 per cent per year until the 0.7 per cent target is reached '. Perhaps the most devastating action of the Government in respect of the quality of aid is the abolition of the Australian Development Assistance Agency and the reintegration of its staff into the Department of Foreign Affairs, and the associated staff cuts that went along with it. Imagine the demoralisation and dislocation of staff implied by a reduction in Third Division staffing from 484 in 1 976-77 to an estimated 272 as shown on page 118 of Budget Paper No. 4. This represents a cut of 212 or about 42 per cent. The ADAA was established by Labor in order to provide development assistance with some degree of independence from considerations of day to day diplomacy and foreign policy decisions, and in order to create an opportunity for public servants concerned about developments to make a career in it rather than leaving aid to be administered in an  ad hoc  manner by diplomats for whom aid was not necessarily their main interest. I pay tribute to many diplomats who do see aid- as I see it- not only as a very important part of diplomacy but also as a humanitarian object of policy. At the end of 1 975 the ADAA had got over many of its teething problems. It had begun to develop a systematic philosophy of aid in which the needs of the poorest 40 per cent of people in the Third World were given priority. It had begun systematically to evaluate aid programs and monitor their progress. It was beginning to develop a professionalism which might in time have matched that of the Canadian International Development Agency. It had even become aware of the possibility that aid programs aimed at helping a whole community might unintentionally worsen the position of women. After all, tractors mean less digging for the men but can mean twice as much weeding for the women in these poorer parts of the world. The ADAA was examining the social aspects of its programs more carefully. 
However, I must add that I support the general approach of the Government of aid to Papua New Guinea. This was mentioned by the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Aldred)  earlier in this debate. Both the level and the forward commitment are well tailored to Papua New Guinea 's needs, for the level of aid is such that the growth of Papua New Guinea Government spending will have to be financed internally while the forward commitment encourages the planning that will make for effective development. Also, by giving untied rather than project aid, Australia is encouraging Papua New Guinea to take full responsibility for its own affairs. The cuts in staff and the reorganisation have jeopardised all this, as good staff have been forced to leave and the status of past policies has become unclear. 
My next subject does relate aid with foreign policy. Overseas aid cannot be divorced from international politics and foreign policy. After all, a major motivation for aid, at least for Labor people, is a perception of international social and economic inequalities and a desire for a more just distribution of global resources. What could be more political? What should be more central to our foreign policy at a time of increasing international inter-dependency? What I fear is that the reintegration of the Australian Development Assistance Agency into the Department of Foreign Affairs may lead to aid being used to further more narrow and more dubious political aims. For instance, I do not count this Government as being one of the most sympathetic to the idea of a new and more just international economic order. Indeed, I seem to recollect one senior member of the Government who promised that Australia would have no friends in the Third World. An indicator of how aid policy is likely to be determined from now on, can be found in the sudden generosity of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  towards the South Pacific. It has been announced that bilateral project aid will increase substantially to a level of more than $1 lm, all because a group of Soviet aid officials visited an aid project in that part of the world. Let us hope that Soviet aid officials visit all areas of need soon. The Australian Labor Party is committed to increasing aid for the South Pacific but for right and humanitarian reasons. 
I want to make 2 points in conclusion and outline several steps which I would like to see taken to improve the Government's aid program. Firstly, we should increase the funding for projects run by non-government aid agencies, presently set at $650,000. This represents only about .16 per cent of total aid. In 1974, the average funding by these non-government agencies- by members of the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development- was 3 per cent of the aid. Millions of Australians contribute to non-government agencies. They send over $2 6m overseas from this country each year. Their programs have a flexibility and an ability to get down to the community level in recipient countries which it is hard for governmenttogovernment aid to match. So I think that we ought to be monitoring what they are doing far more closely. Where we see that they are very worth while projects, because of their flexibility, we should be ensuring that we give them help. 
The second point which I make in conclusion is that we should be preparing a middle term strategy for international development cooperation comparable to that produced by Canada for the period of 1975-80. I have already given credit to the Canadians for the sort of aid agencies which they possess. I think that we ought to be looking much more closely at their long term planning in this field. I repeat that ad hocism is not in the best interests either of Australia or of the recipient countries. I hope that these suggestions will be taken up, that we will be looking at this in a longer term perspective and, indeed, that we will be over that longer term lifting our aid to .7 per cent of our gross national product, the percentage laid down by international bodies such as the United Nations Organisation. 
Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8 p.m. 
Progress reported. 
-Has the Acting Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations noted that the Australian Bureau of Statistics has been able to update its seasonal adjustment process and has released figures indicating that unemployment in August was the highest on record? Is it true that this updated process could also be applied to the figures gathered by the Commonwealth Employment Service and that the process was available at the time of the release of the August employment figures? If this is so, will he arrange to have published the unemployment figures for the last 12 months which have been subjected to the new seasonal adjustment process? 
My question is directed to the Acting Treasurer. Is it true, as stated by Syntec, that 'no part of the Government's discretionary economic management mechanism is set for strong economic growth this year'? Is Syntec right in suggesting that 'business is looking for more growth in 1976-77 than the Budget is designed to give' and that 'the Government is being less than frank on what the Budget strategy implies'? Will the Government remove the confusion which it has deliberately created, as witnessed by Syntec 's views, by saying clearly and truly that its Budget policy is aimed at retarding economic growth? 
I shall direct my remarks to those amounts provided in the Department of Primary Industry estimates for finding markets for our products- the most necessary exercise of all, in my opinion, for all primary producers in Australia. In a contribution a couple of weeks ago in the debate on the estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, I discussed economic planning. Although I drew heavily on the report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration, I want to make it clear that I am not sold on the idea in that report that the planning should be carried out in DINDEC, the Royal Commission's suggested new Department of Industry and the Economy. I do not think the planning department should be associated with any particular domestic sector, whether it be secondary, tertiary, or primary industry, or resources or whatever it be. For instance, for DINDEC to be the chosen Department in my view would be unfair to the Department of Primary Industry- the estimates for which we are discussing now. 
I do think there is a strong case for the planning department to be associated with overseas trade, as increased trade between nations is the world's hope for increasing people's standards of living. No industry will benefit from this more than primary industry. In so many sectors we need economies of scale and specialisation in order to achieve that greater productivity which is the necessary ingredient for improved standards of living. Overseas trade is related to nearly all sectors of our domestic economy. Medium and long term planning would live easily with overseas trade. But apart from that consideration, Australian trade definitely needs boosting. There is plenty we want to import. There are no problems about stimulating that area. But it is to our exports that we must direct our attention, and it is to one aspect of that problems that I turn my attention now. 
It is my belief that the best hope for boosting our exports, in particular primary industry exports, is by concentrating our trade between -communist and non-communist countries. One Soviet bank tells us that only 9 per cent of world trade at the present time is in this category and that this proportion has scarcely changed in the past 15 years. This is a bad record for us all. From all the advice I have received, I believe that those who turn their backs on Eastern Europe do so out of sheer ignorance. 
Let us look at some of the facts of those Eastern European economies behind the Iron Curtain. The 7 European members of Comecon account for 8 per cent of the world population. According to the World Bank, they are responsible for 13 per cent of the world's production. By their own estimates their share of world industrial output is one-third. United Nations figures show they account for some 10 per cent of world trade, including the trade amongst themselves. They want to import all sorts of goods, primary and secondary. I know more about the latter category. They want Western equipment  and technology and they want to find new markets for their growing industrial production. The communists clearly have the will and the need to expand trade with the West. In fact, in some respects they are ahead in having this will. The new 1976-80 5-year plans which are widely viewed in the West as realistic, show that Comecon is planning over-all growth of 5 per cent to 6 per cent per annum. The growth in investment is expected to be 7 per cent to 8 per cent per annum- more in some countries, less in others. Planned annual spending for the whole grouping comes out at the equivalent of $250 billion and between 8 per cent to 10 per cent of Comecon investment is spent in the West. 
So it is possible to say, as a rough guide, that Comecon plans to import some $20 billion to $25 billion worth of Western goods a year, including primary products. Our exports should be part of those large figures. In short, the fact that they do things differently over there should not be allowed to obscure what their investment plans mean in terms of business opportunities, nor should they be allowed to obscure the Eastern European urgent desire for more trade with Australia. 
I believe- the Australian Labor Party in Opposition as well as in government believes- that the special state capitalist institutions of Eastern Europe as well as of certain parts of the Middle East and Asia, in other words those institutions in those countries in the emerging Third World and behind the Iron and Bamboo Curtains, require a special institution here to deal with them. We in the Australian Labor Party attempted, whilst in Government, to set up such a special institution, namely the Overseas Trade Corporation. We were frustrated whilst in office by the hostile Liberal-National Country Party majority in the Senate from establishing an adequate trading institution to cater for the special needs of tapping trade with countries with wholly planned economies. As so often happens, conservatives in this country prevented a progressive move which would have benefited us all. In particular, of course, it would have benefited primary producers. Let us hope that, with the passage of time, the message is sinking in and the present Liberal-National Country Party Government may see the error of their conservative ways and set up an Overseas Trade Corporation. I hope so. After all, we have seen greater changes in the Government's outlook. I need only to refer to the Government's attitude to China as one small bit of hope on the horizon, and the Government's attitude to South Africa, which is another case in point. But I have not time to go into those matters. 
Let me quote from a speech made last April by  Mr C.  E. Gaudry, Executive Director of the Heavy Engineers Manufacturing Association. What  Mr Gaudry  says about the secondary industry sphere applies equally to primary industry. He said: 
No single Australian company had the financial muscle to act as a prime contractor in any major engineering development in the world. 

 Mr Gaudry was verifying his association's support for a proposal to develop an overseas trading corporation. He did not mention at that time- probably for political, tactful reasonshow the Labor Government wished to set up such a trade corporation. He drew attention to similar corporations in Canada and New Zealand. The Canadian Commercial Corporation, which is wholly owned by the Canadian Government, and is responsible to the Canadian Minister of Supply and Services, was established to act as the contracting agency when other governments wish to purchase defence or other supplies and services from Canada on a government to government basis. The procurement in Canada for other governments is also carried out by the Corporation. 
In New Zealand the Labour Government established in 1974 the New Zealand ExportImport Corporation- a statutory body, a public corporation- with its objective to promote New Zealand overseas trade. Its activities and structure are determined in the best interests of efficiency and profitability. The present system of Australian individual groups endeavouring to compete against a government-to-government based system is a bugbear to both Australian overseas trade missions and the whole primary industry and local manufacturing sector. Local heavy engineering groups, for instance, seeking overseas and also local orders have found the centralised approach almost impenetrable. Let me quote  Mr Gaudry  further: 
The organisation would be a facility to get people together so that they can tender for a project which singly cannot be attempted. 
Now what has been the position in Australia. A former Labor Minister for Overseas Trade, the honourable member for Lalor,  Dr Jim  Cairns, introduced the original proposal for an Overseas Trading Corporation in 1974. We believed that the Corporation, as a Government agency, would stimulate trade with countries that had centrally-planned economies- Middle East countries, together with those under communism, and developing States. We intended the corporation to be self-supporting and said that private companies would be welcome to penetrate markets opened up by the agency. 
In August last year the then Minister for Overseas Trade, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports,  Mr Frank  Crean, emphasised the growing trends in government-to-government deals in agricultural products, especially by the United States, Japan and the European Economic Community. In statements he instanced sales in wheat, sugar, beef and dairying products, aggregating thousands of tonnes. But here is the crunch about the situation today. 
A spokesman for  Senator Cotton,  Minister for Industry and Commerce, has said that the senator was in favour of the private sector being busy in this sphere of activity. There was some hesitancy by the Government to enter into agreement in which the Government was the sole operator in the operation. So we experience the continuing out of date thinking. What ignorance it displays. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
How many persons entered apprenticeships in (a) each State and (b) Australia in (i) the Public sector and (ii) the private sector during (A) 1 975 and (B) 1 976. 
What was the total number of persons undertaking apprenticeship training in 1975, and how many are currently indentured in (a) each State and (b) Australia in (i) the public sector and (ii) the private sector. 
-The simple truth is that the Liberal-National Country Party Government has blundered in the economic policy it has applied to our economy in the last 10 months and Australians are suffering unnecessarily as a consequence, particularly those Australians among the vast number of unemployed. As each day passes it becomes clearer that the conservatives of our country have not only outraged our Constitution and our political stability but also have damaged our economic recovery. Now we have had the admission of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  that this is so. In his  Financial Times  conference speech last weekend he said: 
Clearly, for a variety of reasons including the slow-down in the rate of public expenditure, economic performance overall during the September quarter has been somewhat weaker than in the June quarter. 
How much lower should those figures get? National income statistics show that the quarterly rate of growth fell from 3.6 per cent in the March quarter of this year, when the Australian Labor Government's policies were still applying, to 0.6 per cent in the June quarter when the Fraser Government's policies took their toll. We are now told that the statistics for the September quarter are going to be lower still. They have not yet been announced. The Treasurer is preparing us for the worst before he scoots off abroad for another overseas trip to escape the wrath of this Parliament when those figures are announced. Is it to be a trip to Germany this time or are we raising our loans in the United States of America? 
The unemployment figures tell the same story. In seasonally adjusted terms they dropped from October of last year, a year ago this month, when Labor's policies were applying, to March of this year when the policies of those who were born to rule, in their estimation, those who grabbed power on the excuse that they could manage the economy better, took over. In raw figures, unemployment dropped in January through to May, and then turned for the worse, increasing each month through to August, with no perceptible movement in September. Many other indicators tell a similar story- the civilian employment figures, the shocking slump in industrial production, the motor vehicle registration figures, the retail sales figures and so on. The Treasurer grabbed for one hardly very significant straw when the July instalment credit figures were released but one swallow does not make a summer. What is the story today on the release by the Australian Bureau of Statistics of instalment credit figures for August? Instalment credit granted fell by 5.4 per cent in August. In fact, in the household and personal sector, the fall was 10.9 per cent. In answer to a question on 2 1 September the Treasurer pointed to the July rise in this indicator as reflecting increased activity by consumers. Clearly that activity was very shortlived. 
It is my duty to point out these hard facts to the nation. Let us hear no more of this absurdity that I and my colleagues are talking down the economy. Clearly our purpose in making these points is to draw attention to the wrong economic policies which are being applied, have been applied and will continue to be applied, because we want the policies changed. What are these policies? I refer to the slashing of Government expenditure, the provocation of wage and salary earners by deliberately setting out to reduce real wages, the threatened close down of industry such as the shipbuilding industry, the failure to reduce interest rates as promised, the false talk of reducing taxes while at the same time imposing the harsh health taxes in the form of the Medibank levy or subscriptions to the other funds. These things are just part of the story. It is our jobindeed it is our duty- to point out these facts. We want a change of policy to our alternative Budget strategy- the lowering of indirect taxes, the stimulation of spending where there are unemployed men and women and other resources, a more realistic wages policy. I refer to the things I have been talking about for months and which were expanded in a package put forward last week by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam). 
Regrettably, in the rest of my contribution is this debate, I have time only to talk about one area, the slashing of Government expenditure. The cuts in Government spending have been quite unnecessary. Their purpose has been political in nature, not economic. Their magnitude in the current Budget being debated in this House is as much as 8 per cent overall. Almost without exception the spending cuts have had no economic justification. They have caused hardship and have added to unemployment. Spending cuts have had these disastrous effects: Firstly, there is the direct adverse effect on unemployment in the public sector. People who would otherwise be employed by the Government are now unemployed because of the false ideology of our political opponents. These people could be and should be gainfully employed in the public sector. If they were allowed to be active their efforts would add to the gross national product of our nation and to the standard of living of all of us. Their not being employed in many instances adds to social costs ant? hus to inflation. Postponed road improvements, less efficient railways, holdups in Customs, and so on, are all social costs which add to the burden of inflation as well as to the burden of unemployment. I visited the Treasurer's electorate of Flinders yesterday. There the rate of unemployment is very bad indeed and the cuts in transport and sewerage works are disastrous. 
The second adverse effect of the cuts of Government spending is in the private sector. I refer to the employment and efficiency of private firms and other units in the private sector. Much of the Government's spending is inevitably carried out by companies, partnerships and individuals in the private sector. They rely on the Government for their contracts. Therefore many of them are suffering unnecessary hardship because these contracts have dried up. The Government is not spending so people have no work. Every alive politician in this chamber and in the Parliament must have examples in his district where this situation applies. 
Let me give but one example in my electorate of Adelaide. Bradford Kendall Ltd relies for 80 per cent to 90 per cent of its production on railway rolling stock work. Because of the national Government's- that is the Fraser Government'sharsh economic policies that company's orders are drying up fast. Employment at Bradford Kendall in the Kilburn suburb in my electorate has been reduced from 220 to 100 in the past 6 months. This is not as a result of anything which happened during the Australian Labor Party's term in office. It is due directly to stupid Liberal Party and National Country Party policies. Moulders are unemployed. Pattern makers are unemployed. Storemen are unemployed. Some of these family men with homes, wives and children to keep, have been employed at Bradford Kendall for up to 25 years. They have relied on government contracts. In certain cases these are State government contracts, but does anyone suggest that the State governments are not carrying out what the present Liberal-National Country Party Government wants? 
The Prime Minister and the Treasurer sought to score political points by drawing attention to the fact that even Labor governed States have fallen into line and are dancing to the economic tune of the national Government. So the results of that economic tune, the adverse effects of the disastrously wrong economic policies, can be placed fairly and squarely on the shoulders of the conservative national Government. When the New South Wales Government fails to place an expected contract for railway rolling stock with Bradford Kendall Ltd in Adelaide, it is because the New South Wales Government is carrying out the economic policies of the national Government. The New South Wales Government is being kept short of funds, stupidly, by the national Government. Its loan works program is not what it would want that program to be. But this is being forced on it by the present national Government, politicians in the national Parliament and their conservative advisers outside the Parliament. 
I point out again what was said by implication earlier. When railway rolling stock is not made by a company which has the capacity to do so, the tragedy for Australia is not only the effect on the lives of those Australians who were employed by that firm and who are now unemployed; the railway system of this country is impaired. It is not as efficient as it would otherwise be. This adds to costs. It adds to inflation. The Treasurer should ask people in his electorate, as I indicated earlier, particularly in Frankston and Mount Eliza, what they think of their railway system. We could call it the public squalor of Flinders. 
I must make another point before leaving the subject of the disastrous effects these unnecessary cuts in Government spending are having on public spending. The point is this: One or two Liberal Party politicians in this chamber have sought to try to place some blame on the State governments for not doing all that they could do to create employment because those State governments have run small surpluses in their published budgets. This is either the height of ignorance or the height of cynicism. These Liberal politicians do not do their own credibility or their own honesty any good when they make these points. State governments are not like Federal governments. They cannot indulge in deficit spending over long periods. They are bound to seek to balance their budgets each year, prudently, they should be showing a surplus at this time of the year so that there are funds in reserve for those unexpected eventualities when unexpected situations arise during the financial year. 
The third disastrous effect of the cuts in government spending has been on the psychology of the people. With other policies the Government has adversely affected that psychology. Australian people are feeling uncertain and timid about the future. Instead of spending they are squirrelling away their incomes when they are fortunate to have incomes which are not being used for sustenance. They are placing their incomes in savings and other deposits. We must unlock those savings. Whether we like it nor not, we are living in a system which requires consumer confidence and which requires people to spend steadily if there is to be a demand for goods necessary for business investment which itself is absolutely essential if unemployment is to be reduced. All this slashing of spending, all this talk of belt tightening, the talk of no soft options and the failure to give the Australian people the feeling that the Government wants to reduce unemployment, that it is dinkum about it, have led to the timidity and the uncertainty which is found in the minds of the Australian people. All this leads to that squirrelling away of incomes in savings accounts. I assert that it is unemployment and not so much inflation which is the great cause of that uncertainty. I assert with confidence that this Liberal-National Country Party Government's policies have heightened this uncertainty. 
It is no good the Treasurer saying: 'Ah, but my budget has not yet had time to work '.  His  Budget has merely been a continuation of the wrong policies inflicted on the Australian people since the Fraser Government took over.  His  Budget has had an adverse psychological effect. Also, I make it clear that to advocate a recovery policy, as Labor does and will continue to do, is not to abandon the fight against inflation. We have these twin problems of inflation and unemployment. They must be tackled together. Labor's modest proposals tackle both problems together. Indeed, recovery will help in the fight against inflation. This point is brought out succinctly in the Australian and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd report on  Survey of Business Indicators  which states: 
The irony is that strong economic recovery, with its attendant productivity lift, would be a potent force reducing cost pressures- particularly when allied with a sound working relationship between management and unions- as highlighted in the improved performance recently achieved by Japan, Germany and the United States of America. 
There is no joy in rushing to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and 
International Monetary Fund meetings for succour and support as the Treasurer has done recently in order to find support for his policy. The Treasurer is falsely using quotations of others in seeking to give his policies support. The countries he cites are higher up on the recovery ladder than is Australia. They have already used the policies Labor advocates to get higher up that ladder. It is urgent that we have a mini-budget adopting the policies which Labor has been advocating for some months in the present economic circumstances. The Treasurer has admitted in the  Financial Times  speech that his policies have led to a pause in that recovery. We accept that recovery eventually must come in this country. All this Government has done by its policies in the past 10 months has been to postpone that recovery. I trust that we will have policy measures to improve the economic performance of this country. I trust that we will have a minibudget in the new year. The Treasurer must change his policies. He has admitted that those policies are wrong. 
-As part of the inquiries of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration an expert task force studied the organisation of science at the government level in Australia. Part of the recommendations of the report of this task force was a call for the abolition of the Department of Science as a separate entity and the incorporation of many of its functions in other departments. Since that report was published in 1975 the Department of Science has become embroiled in a degree of controversy unprecedented in its previous 3 years of existence. Unfortunately this controversy has surrounded the ramifications of what is supposed to be a bureaucratic fight for survival rather than an analysis of the major rationale for the existence of the Department of Science. 
Arguably, a Department of Science which does little besides administer scientific funding programs has very little claim to survival. However this does not mean that there is no call for a section of government to be actively involved in the formulation of national science policy. The report of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development entitled  Science, Growth and Society  defines science policy as 'a deliberative and coherent basis for national decisions influencing the investment, institutional structure, creativity and utilisation of scientific research'. The undeniable, if indirect, links between science and technology demand the extension of a science policy to include technology as well. The extent of the usefulness of a national science and technology policy will be governed, of course, by the degree to which it is 'a deliberative and coherent basis' for national decision making. 
During the debate on the estimates for the Department of Administrative Services, I outlined proposals the Australian Labor Party is considering for the establishment of long term planning mechanisms for the Australian economy. Part of the process involved is the identification of national goals and the means of achieving them. An integral part of this process is the development of national policies in significant areas. The need for a national economic policy is virtually unquestioned. The same cannot be said, but it is being questioned, about the need for a national energy policy or indeed a national policy on science and technology. 
My colleague, the shadow Minister for National Resources, recently foreshadowed moves that the Australian Labor Party is taking towards formulation of a national energy policy. It is built on the policies and work of the previous Minister for Minerals and Energy in the Australian Labor Government from 1972 to 1975, the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor).  The need for a national science and technology policy is equally significant and the then Minister for Minerals and Energy in the Australian Labor Government, now shadow Minister for Science, is working on this subject. Recent reports, such as that of the Jackson Committee on manufacturing industry, have highlighted the necessity for the incorporation of a national science and technology strategy in to national economic planning. The Jackson Committee found a significant cause of the malaise affecting manufacturing industry to be a lack of investment for the provision of new capital stock- insufficient investment in research and development. 
A national science and technology policy could and would provide the means for avoiding such a circumstance arising. In this context a national science strategy becomes integrally associated with one of the basic problems of the 
Australian economy- resource allocation and employment. In times of recession the long term is often sacrificed for the expediency of the present. Research and development, being the stuff of the future rather than the present, is high on the list of those areas where we are told cuts are unavoidable. I refer to those cuts in government spending by this present conservative Government which the country is now suffering. The glaring lack of any real national direction in technology became starkly evident recently in the Government's original decision to remove a grant to the Australian Design Council. The very fact that this grant was restored 20 days later is an indictment of the process which led to the making of the original decision, the removal decision. 
The Labor Government recognised the importance of science and technology for the future development of Australia in its decision to set up a separate Department of Science. Nearly 4 years from that time an evaluation of the role the Department has had in the evolution of national science and technlogy policy is called for. The Department's estimates, which we are debating now, tell us that in 1976-77 an average employment of 47 persons is expected in the policy division. However we know very little of their work and little of their relationship with the Australian Science and Technology Council.  Dr Peter  Pockley, writing in  Nature,  discerned that the Department's annual report for 1974-75, published in April 1976, contained 'only the blandest information on matters of policy and planning'. 
There is a place for a body within government structure to exist alongside the science council charged with giving science policy advice. Alternate sources of advice are important in the development of all policies. Science and technology are no exception. Access to the workings of bureaucracy is always difficult but in this instance the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  has the perfect mechanism for outlining the policy development occurring within his Department. He need turn no further than the Government's policy on science and technology released before the last election. The gentleman who is now Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  was reported in the  Sydney Morning Herald of 2  December 1975 as promising that a Liberal-National Country Party government would make a science statement to Parliament each year. We know that the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  tends to regard election promises as promises to be made rather than to be kept but it is hoped that this promise is honoured. I doubt that it will be. 
All interested people would also hope that such a statement would be an indication of the formulation of a real science and technology strategy and not a facile exercise of cataloguing where research dollars were spent. Such a statement would be a real opportunity for the Minister for Science to prevent what has become a worrying trend to the scientific community in recent months, so I am told. I refer to the steady erosion of the credibility of his Department. It is with great regret that I point out that the Minister's tendency to use question time as an opportunity to regale the Senate with his newfound knowledge on obscure scientific oddities hardly demonstrates the intrinsic worth of the Department. Neither does the holding of meetings of the entire Department to warn against leaks to the Press or to check up on flexitime. Unquestionably, the talent residing within the Department is capable of taking an active part in policy formulation. But the time has come when it must be seen to be doing so. Maybe then a real national policy on science and technology can be developed and made to work. Perhaps in the future manufacturing industry will be able to work in a framework where its efficiency is not steadily undermined by insufficient input from new technology and where Australian firms will not have to worry about the added cost of paying vast sums to overseas countries to obtain the technology the future will demand. 
-I seek leave, by agreement with the Government, to make a short statement. 
-The Opposition is supporting this Bill which is straightforward in nature. As the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  pointed out, it increases the exemption from estate duty where the whole or part of the estate of a deceased person passes to a surviving spouse. The exemption will exclude from liability for duty the value up to a maximum of $50,000 of the spouse's interest in the estate. This will exempt estates up to $90,000 if all goes to the spouse and $98,000 if all of it consists of farm assets. The new exemption level replaces the levels introduced in 1 974 based on a value of the matrimonial home of $35,000 but diminishing if the home was worth more. The new levels will apply to the estates of persons who died after 17 August- the date on which this measure was announced in the Budget Speech by the Treasurer. To facilitate the handling of these returns, the requirement for a statutory declaration is removed. In future, these returns will be made on a form approved by the Commissioner  of Taxation 
The moves taken in this Bill are in Une with the recommendations of the Taxation Review Committee- the Asprey Committee- on this subject. In its report on estate and death duties, the Asprey Committee drew together a large number of criticisms of death taxes. These criticisms included the ineffectiveness that these taxes have in their present form and the avoidance possibilities open to those with the resources to indulge in tax planning techniques. Hardship caused to widows and dependent children and the innate complexity of the dual StateCommonwealth system of taxation giving rise to considerable administrative problems and costs in administration were also mentioned in the Asprey Committee report. Many claim that revenue from estate duty is such a small fraction of total Commonwealth revenue that Commonwealth estate duties should be abolished. The Committee agreed that many of these criticisms had considerable strength but it disagreed with the conclusion that estate duties should be abolished. In its own words, the Committee believed  . . that the avoidance and hardship difficulties can be largely overcome and that, in concert with the States, a system of Australian death taxes can be devised which will minimise costs of administration. 
The main purposes of a death tax are, firstly, to aid the progressive income tax system by the indirect means of placing a progressive levy on wealth accumulated during a generation; and, secondly, to limit the growth of large inherited fortunes and hence avoid the undesirable social consequences a large number of people see stemming from the accumulation of such large fortunes. Looked at in this light, estate duty becomes an instrument for taxing wealth once a generation. This is one of the grounds upon which the arguments for special treatment for spouses, especially widows, is based. The other grounds concern 'moral and legal obligations', to use the Committee's words. A husband has to provide for his widow. It seems perfectly reasonable that the support and assistance one spouse has given to the other in the accumulation of wealth should be acknowledged in some special manner. 
The Asprey Committee agreed that there should be special treatment but it stopped short of recommending complete exemption- its basic argument against complete exemption being the possibility of tax avoidance through estate splitting. At the present time estate duty acts as a form of wealth tax. It performs a catching up function. Tax which would have been paid during life if a much more efficient income tax system operated, is paid at the time of death. I draw attention to one of the recommendations of the Asprey committee and that is the need for combined Commonwealth-State action to simplify estate duty tax. The difficulties of administering a dual system of taxation with each State having the power to make its own rules has been highlighted by the committee and by many others. This would seem to be a warning to the Government as it moves towards the implementation of its so-called new federalism policy. There are many problems with the changing of the uniform taxation system. These problems should not be underestimated. 
Especially at the State government level there has been considerable debate recently on estate duty. The Labor Government's of New South Wales and South Australia have both foreshadowed moves to legislate to abolish succession duties and estate duties where estates are left to spouses. The cost of this proposal to the South Australian Government is believed to be of the order of $4m and to the New South Wales Government about $10m. The present Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Wran,  last May pointed to the urgent heed for an Australia-wide reform of estate duty in an effort to move towards greater simplicity and uniformity when he suggested that people legally avoiding death duties were costing his Government up to $50m a year. The Victorian Liberal Government is following the lead of the State Labor governments in the 2 States I have mentioned. It is taking similar action. The Queensland Government has approved a recommendation for the abolition of all State death duties. Without debating the efficacy of that decision, I remind honourable members in the House that that is not in line with the feeling of the members of the Asprey committee nor of the Prime Minister of this country as he signified in his answer to a question in the House today. 
I refer to one of the reasons the Queensland Government has given for the change. It has been openly suggested that many southern businessmen will take their accumulated wealth to Queensland and invest it there to obtain relief from death duties. Queensland, by offering a fiscal advantage to investors, hopes to divert resources from the other States. Although the fiscal change is small, it does tend to point out what can happen if our traditional Federal-State relations are broken down without the full implications of the change being considered. A call for the abolition of Commonwealth estate duty reportedly came from the  president  of the Queensland branch of the National Party at that Party's conference last weekend. It is not the call itself which deserves special mention but rather the method in which the gentleman suggested the fall in revenue resulting from such a measure could be offset. The proposer of the abolition of death duties suggested it be paid for by cutting overseas aid. This proposition is ridiculous in the extreme. It is heartless and counterproductive and certainly not in our country's humanitarian or, in the long term, material interests. 
Apart from the blatant selfishness of someone in a country like Australia suggesting tax cuts be offset by lowering our aid commitments, the suggestion contains the height of economic ignorance. The impact on the domestic economy of the abolition of death duties would be virtually the same whether or not foreign aid was cut by an equivalent amount. Given the state of our foreign reserves, small changes in the overseas sector will leave the domestic sector affected. The present Government should take steps to inform its supporters, especially in Queensland, that its failure to abolish death duties or, more importantly, to take steps to overcome some of the hardships suffered by people in the outback, is a function of its own ideological fixations about government spending rather than a function of our level of overseas aid. Misinformed economic debate was one of those things which this Government promoted when it was in opposition. Do honourable members remember the deficit rubbish about everyone owing the Government $500? That was the sort of thing we heard at this time last year. I call on members of the Government to take steps to remove any thoughts among their supporters that we can cut taxes or increase spending by cutting foreign aid. The dangers of a misinformed public voicing opposition on ill-founded grounds against foreign aid are not to be underestimated. 
This ignorant call by the National Party President in Queensland reminds me of the deception of this Government in seeking to persuade the Australian people that it is reducing taxes when, as we all know, it is inflicting additional taxes by imposing a health tax from the beginning of this month in the form of the Medibank levy or large subscriptions to medical and hospital benefit funds. This Bill is a reasonable reform measure alleviating surviving spouses from increasing Federal estate duty burdens caused by inflation. The Opposition supports this reasonable reform. 
-The Opposition supports these Bills. In one way I am grateful to the Government for bringing them on tonight because I will not be here on Thursday when it was originally intended that these Bills should be debated. In another way, I am not so happy because I have had only an hour's notice that the Bills were to be debated tonight. I am worried that important Bills like these will not be given the consideration from me in this debate that I would have liked. But the Asian Development Bank (Special Funds Contributions) Amendment Bill illustrates clearly this Government's lack of commitment to aid. This has to be said in a debate like this even though the Opposition is supporting the Bills. This Bill is at least 6 months late. The Asian Development Bank's annual report, which was published in March states:  the Australian Government has indicated its intention to untie its contribution (to the multi-purpose special fund) and so allow it to be transferred to the Asian Development Fund as soon as necessary Parliamentary authorisation could be obtained. 
In other words, this Government told the Asian Development Bank at least in March, and probably earlier, that it would arrange for this Bill, which authorises transfers of funds from an old concessionary loan fund to a new Asian Development Fund as quickly as possible. It has taken the Government at least 6 months to draft and present this one page Bill. I wonder whether the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  who is at the table- I know he is not responsible for this Bill- could ask whoever is the responsible Minister- I presume it is the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  or the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  himself- to give an explanation, when replying, about the cause for this delay. It does not do our country's reputation any good to find a charge like that being made in a report such as the report of the Asian Development Bank. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer and is supplementary to the first question asked by the Leader of the Opposition. 
Is it a fact that the proposal that the Treasurer may by notice in the  Gazette  declare any income tax as a special surcharge gives him complete control over the level of financial assistance available to State and local governments and thus results in grave uncertainty for those levels of government? Is it a fact that the particular clause in the legislation before this House does not so much protect the State and local governments, as has been suggested by the Prime Minister in his answer, but hinders them in their planning to provide essential services in the future? If such a surcharge has to be introduced would it not be more appropriate to introduce it by legislation rather than by regulation? Is this proposal an example of the Government's decision to use regulations rather than bring matters out into the open in this Parliament? 
-I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the House declines to give the Bill a second reading until it has been redrafted following proper consultation with the State  Governments concerningits  objectionable features'. 
I give notice that I, or a colleague of mine if I am not here at the appropriate time, will be moving a similar amendment in relation to the Local Government (Personal Income Sharing)  Bill  1976. In that case the consultation should be not only with the State governments but also with the Local Government Association of Australia. In no way has there been proper consultation at this stage. All I have heard- I have had to hear this on the grapevine- is that telex messages have gone to the Premiers tonight telling them of the small changes which are being made to clauses 4 and 6 of the local government Bill. Those telex messages will have reached the Premiers' offices after they closed. In no way is this consultation about the details to which all Premiers have objections, and rightly have objections. 
These Bills give legislative effect to the socalled Fraser new federalism. That concept is a sham. For that reason and for others, these Bills are full of objectionable features and should be withdrawn and redrafted. Not only do we in the Australian Labor Party Opposition consider that these Bills have objectionable features but so also do many other people including, I repeat, the Premiers and key and informed local government officers. That is why we believe that there should be consultation with representatives of the other tiers of government before the Bills are redrafted and submitted again to the House. 
Before embarking on the details of my speech I shall summarise some of our objections and some of our constructive thoughts on these Bills. Firstly, there is uncertainty concerning the volume of funds to be received by States and local government bodies in future years because personal income tax at a time of tax indexation probably will not be a growth tax. Further, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  by a stroke of his pen can call a part of income tax a surcharge and exclude it from the calculations. That is not altered in any amendments that the States have been told about tonight in some cavalier fashion at the last minute. 
Let me now move to a second constructive thought about these Bills. Secondly, we believe in uniform standards of service to be provided for people in every part of our nation through uniform taxes. Thirdly, States being allowed to raise their own income taxes is not only double taxation but also weakens national economic management. Fourthly, these Bills perpetuate a sham to the effect that there is a transfer of power from the Federal to the State sphere when no such transfer takes place, as we have seen from the alterations that have been hurriedly and unsatisfactorily made at the last moment by a Government which has been forced into these actions. 
Fifthly, there is a wasteful establishment of State local government grants commissions when the Austraiian Grants Commission was doing a thoroughly good job in this area, supported by States other than those who for political reasons wanted to make something of it. Sixthly, if local government grants commissions are to be set up, why not use the Australian Grants Commission with all its expertise to monitor or audit them instead of bureaucratically interfering with them in a centralist fashion, as the Government is doing even after the amendments about which it has told the States at the last moment in what I repeat is a cavalier fashion? Seventhly, the local government Bill fails to allow for changes in the proportions payable to each State when those States with areas not covered by local government achieve the establishment of corporations in those areas. That is clause 5 of the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill and it is not altered in any way by the latest amendment. 
That is one of the amendments asked for by at least one of the States. Finally, the Bills perpetuate the untruths being perpetrated by this Liberal-National Country Party Government that funds in real terms allocated to the States and local government have increased when only general grants have increased and total funds in real terms have decreased. The Australian Labor Party does not suggest that there is an easy solution to the problems inherent in Federal-State relations. However, unlike the present Liberal-National Country Party Government, we are intent on producing a policy which can work in practice as well as sound attractive in theory. As we approach the next federal conference of our party, we are working in collaboration with our State colleagues to produce a workable policy which will minimise the tensions which inevitably arise in a federal system. It must be remembered that the Australian States moved into a federal system knowing full well that they were structuring a tiered system of government in which the political objectives of each tier would at some stage not coincide. It should be the object of a policy in this area to provide for each tier sufficient funds to do the job required of it. 
The Australian Labor Party's policy in this area would embrace 2 major principles: Firstly, that the States have sufficient funds effectively to pursue their essential duties; secondly, the provision of a mechanism for the carrying out of joint Federal-State programs directed at the general aim of improving the quality of life of all Australians. The Australian Labor Party in government set out on this task of achieving the second objective through its special purpose grants in fields such as education, health and hospitals, social security, recreation and sport, and urban and regional development. As evidence of that we have to direct our minds only to the Australian Assistance Plan, the area improvement plan and the medical centres, to name just a few. We pioneered a method of setting up genuine joint programs, jointly administered by Federal and State officials. The United States federal system, though not identical to ours, has very many programs that are jointly Federal-State concerns. We in the Australian Labor Party intend to learn from other federal systems and to develop still further true cooperative federalism in the form of joint programs. 
-This is not centralism, this is a recognition of the need for national involvement with State administrations to satisfy people's needs. The present Government differs markedly from Labor on the subject of joint programs. It appears to have adopted as an article of faith that the Federal Government should withdraw its involvement in any area that could conveniently be administered by a State alone, whether or not the State has the resources. From the inane interjections we have heard tonight we now know that some of these backbenchers who have reason to feel very insecure are against joint programs like the Australian Assistance Plan, like the help that Labor gave to recreation and sport, like the setting up of health centres. 
These are the sorts of things that they are compaigning against. The Fraser Government plans for the Federal Government to abdicate its responsibility to act in concert with the States and local government to fulfil the essential duties of that tier of government in providing for people's needs which are not otherwise being fulfilled. Surely if there is any justification for the States of 
Australia joining in a federation it is the hope that the Federal Government will ensure that Australians are provided with uniform standards of service by their Government and have a uniform system of taxation to fund those services. 
In reaching a viable policy on Federal-State financial relations, the Australian Labor Party wishes to ensure that the States have sufficient funds to carry out their essential duties. In doing this we recognise that policy and administration have developed differently over time from State to State. It is these differences that render the use of an arbitrary mathematical formula a difficult method of arriving at the amount the States should receive. The Labor Party is not permanently wedded to the present State boundaries as convenient administrative units for all purposes. 
Regions within States vary widely in thenrequirements. In the future we will have to look much more closely at regional differences as well as State differences. The ideal situation would be if the disbursement of funds to the States could be removed from the arena of political squabbling. Honourable members will note that this is one of the things the present Government's policy is supposed to do in theory. In practice the squabbling has never been more intense, as we have witnessed in the last week from the telexes and letters which have flowed from Liberal and Labor State leaders to the Federal Government. 
I am attracted to the notion of an institution outside politics advising on the level of allocation of funds to the States and local government for those tiers of government adequately to fulfil their services. We have a High Court to arbitrate when legal disagreements arise between the Federal Government and the States. Why not a body of similar stature to give expert advice and to lay down priorities on funding arrangements? Perhaps an interstate economic commission could be established or the necessary powers given to the Australian Grants Commission. The latter already has considerable expertise in and an extensive knowledge of matters concerning the State's financial requirements and so would be a first choice for me if we decided that such an institution should do this work. 
I now turn to some of the specific measures contained in the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill, the first of the 2 Bills being debated in this cognate debate. This Bill replaces the present formula as a method of calculating State revenue with a provision for a guaranteed percentage of personal income tax. The percentage is to be 33.6 per cent, and it is of a base amount to be determined by the Commissioner of Taxation. Earlier I canvassed the problems associated with over-reliance on a mathematical formula of any description for determining State revenues and suggested an alternative. However, if there is to be a formula for the present, I assert that the States would be better off under a restructured version of the old betterment formula. It is interesting to note that as far as general revenue grants are concerned, the States are in total only 3 per cent better off under the percentage of income tax arrangements than they would have been under the old formula. Differences of this magnitude are compatible with extra grants given when the previous formula determined revenue. Anyway, the previous betterment formula was due for renewal and in the course of being updated when the Australian Labor Government lost office. 
The States are well aware of the problems they will have in trying to estimate their revenue now that it is to be based on tax receipts. In February they expected 36 per cent of tax revenues, but because Treasury was so wide of the mark in estimating receipts, this figure became 33.3 per cent. Then after another of the confrontations that this policy supposedly avoids the figure reached 33.6 per cent. There is no guarantee that such miscalculations will not occur again. Tax receipts apparently vary quite substantially according to the amount of effort the departments expend in collecting them. The States' capacity for useful forward budgeting can be severely impaired. Furthermore, we are living in the era of tax indexation which will probably mean that income tax is not the growth tax so desperately needed by the States and local government to provide their essential services. 
Another aspect which is rightly causing considerable concern to the State Premiers and certainly to the Labor Opposition in this Parliament is the provision which allows the Treasurer to determine which receipts are surcharges that need to be included in the base amount. It was very generous of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to explain during question time yesterday that the provision was there to protect the States and the Treasurer would use it only after consultation with them. I presume that, as this promise was not made during an election, the Premiers are expected to believe it and to put greater faith in it. To believe it they would need great faith. If they believe it they will be more gullible than the Australian electors who believed in promises regarding full wage indexation, promises about the maintenance of Medibank, and promises about the saving of gold rnining in Kalgoorlie. So many promises have gone completely down the drain, the excuse being that they were promises made at election time, and we need not take any notice of Liberal promises made at election time. 
Although the States have the guarantee that they will at least get as much in the way of general funds in the near future as they would have received under the old formula, the tying of the grants to personal income tax eventually will restrict the States' access to a growth revenue. I repeat: With tax indexation, personal income tax is no longer the great growth tax it was. A percentage of total revenue as qualified by betterment ratios offers a fairer deal for the States and for local government. Perhaps the key to this decision is the commitment of the Prime Minister to the reduction of the role of the public sector. By restricting the growth of States' revenue perhaps he hopes to force them in the long run to follow his own ideological bent. If the States do raise their own taxes the Federal Government has essentially passed the buck as far as the responsibility for taking this action is concerned. At this stage I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing that total funds going to the States are well down in real terms, the increase being only 8.6 per cent whereas the expected inflation rate is 12 per cent and the rise in public sector prices is approximately 1 5 per cent to 1 6 per cent. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="101131197611032_61_0.jpg"></graphic>

It is worth while noting that one of the objects of giving a fixed percentage of income tax to the States is apparently to reduce the wrangling which occurs at Premiers Conferences. The public debate we have had between the present Government and the States would suggest that, at the very least, any wrangling over the old formula will be replaced by wrangling over what the tax percentage should be. When all these changes to the method of arriving at State revenue are taken into account, the Centre for Research into Federal-State Relations notes in its 1975 report: 
Except to the extent that they are protected by the guarantee provisions and by their ability to impose surcharges, the States will be subject to the risk of greater fluctuations in revenue yields than in the past. 
That is a quote from an expert body in this area. This is hardly a basis for sound government. It certainly shows up what a sham it is for this Government to consider itself a good federalist government and its Opposition a centralist one. 
This Bill opens the way for the imposition of State income taxes and possibly the destruction of the uniform taxation system. In other words, this Bill paves the way for the imposition of double taxation. With the States able to impose their own taxes, effective economic control by the Federal Government is reduced. Whilst the States have to consult with the Federal Government concerning the imposition of tax surcharges, once they have been imposed the Federal Government will not be able to have them removed if economic policy calls for their reduction. Although it appears that the extent of freedom offered to the States under the theory and the practice of Fraser federalism are vastly different, it is obvious that in the theory little thought has been put into the implications of State income taxes for economic management. Even less has been mentioned in respect of the resource allocations aspect of different States offering differing fiscal deals to attract investors. 
It is conceivable that under these proposals any Federal-State conflicts will be replaced by interstate conflicts. The Centre for Research into Federal-State Relations pinpoints this problem when, in the conclusion to an evaluation of the Government's federalism policy, it warns: 
The particular arrangements which have been made for distributing the total share of income tax are likely increasingly to divert the attention of individual States to questions of horizontal distribution, in which the adversary position is taken by the other States rather than by the Commonwealth. 
One of the big questions over the Government's policy remains the method of incorporating specific purpose payments into general revenue grants. The intention of doing this has been announced and I have previously mentioned the large difference between the Government and the Opposition regarding a continuing role for such grants. 
In a recent address  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell, the  Chairman  of the Grants Commission, highlighted this problem. He warned that fiscal inequalities were likely to arise as specific purpose grants were incorporated into general purpose grants. In fact he doubted whether the essential form of federalism we have had for the last 20 years would alter under this Government because the problems, as we have seen even so far, of implementing the theory are so huge. 
During this speech I have covered a number of areas including the ridiculousness of debating these Bills at this time at all and the differences between the Fraser federalism in theory and practice, and I have put forward the basis on which Labor hopes to develop a real and useful policy to cater for the future of Federal-State relations. I have not yet outlined in detail the effects of the implementation of Fraser federalism on economic management, apart from mentioning the disabilities caused by States having income tax powers. It is when we look at this area that we see just what a sham the whole thing is. Perhaps I have paid the Government too great a compliment in bothering to deal with criticisms of the theory of its policy. In practice we find that there has been no shift of power from Canberra to the States at all. We find that in the clauses of the Bills that have been so hastily altered. What extraordinary federalists supporters of the Government are. They are only federalists in theory. In practice they are the horrible centralists that they accuse us of being. 
The Federal Government says that the public sector must be cut back, and the States have very little choice but to go along. I have many times pointed out the error in the Federal Government's thinking in this area. I has caused a setback to the economic recovery which was under way when the present Government took over. It has caused the particular stagnation that we are now suffering. An effective drop of approximately 8 per cent in real terms in Federal outlays is retarding economic growth and recovery. Despite the Treasurer's words, the rest of the world is not following this policy. This Government has in real terms cut back the rate of growth of government spending. They have not cut back the absolute level of spending. 

 Mr Justice Else Mitchell and others are right when they suggest that no real change in the system of the last 20 years will occur under Fraser . federalism other than a change for the worse for the States. No real change of power will occur and all the Government will succeed in doing will be to subject the electorate to a fascinating charade which I believe will take a lot of time and energy and will come to nothing. At the next opportunity the people will vote into office a Labor government which will put co-operative federalism, with all its tensions, into practice but will not waste time window-dressing in seeking to persuade people untruthfully that it is made up of people who in attitude are States' righters. 
Let me turn to the second Bill which concerns the funding of local government. It is necessary to commence my remarks on this Bill by correcting another of the great untruths which this Government is attempting to sell to the Australian people. Despite the way in which the Prime Minister, the Treasurer or  Senator Carrick  may attempt to mislead the people, total funds for local government, as with total funds to State government, have not been increased this financial year. In absolute terms, and in real terms of course, they have been reduced. In money terms they will fall from $272.5m in 1975-76 to an estimated $93.3m in 1976-77, a fall of 29.1 per cent. In real terms this is a drop of roughly 40 per cent. The Treasurer could probably spend the rest of his life telling local government authorities, as he has attempted to do in the past, that they have no justification for raising charges. But local governments, faced with a 40 per cent real drop in income, will have difficulty in believing him. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table setting out Federal funding for local government which shows that there has been a decrease of 29.1 per cent at a time when there is an expected rise of 12 per cent in the inflation rate and of 15 per cent to 16 per cent in public sector prices. 
-Australia is suffering today not only the most conservative but also the most cynical government in its history. Every day we have yet more evidence of this cynicism. The Government answers in question time today were no exception. There can be only one interpretation of the Fraser Government's incompetent economic management decisions as they unfold from day to day and that is that this conservative coalition is deliberately postponing economic recovery so that improvements will come only when the next federal election is due. 
A year ago the Liberal and National Country Parties were telling the Australian people that they could run the economy better than the Labor Party. What blatant untruths they told then, as they are telling now. What false promises were made then that misled the Australian people just a year ago. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said that he 'could get private enterprise moving' and 'create jobs'. He also said that a major element in the LiberalNational Country Parties' strategy was to bring about growth in production in the private sector. He said that under a Liberal-National Party government there would be jobs for all who want to work. He also said that there would be a return to business confidence and a growth rate of 6 to 7 per cent was feasible. 
These assertions sound extraordinary in view of what has happened this year. The most recent national income statistics show an increase of only 0.6 per cent for the June quarter, a sharp decline from the 3.6 per cent growth rate in the first quarter of the year when the Australian Labor Party Government's policies were working. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said in his extraordinarily defensive speech on Friday that 'there was some slowing in growth in the September quarter'. This suggests that the rate of growth of national income has fallen in two of the last 3 quartersthe only quarters in which the present Government's policies could have had an impact. Seasonally adjusted factory production excluding power was at the same level in August as in February- that is, there has been no growth in private secondary industry production during 1976. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has stated publicly that during the coming months he expects the highest level of unemployment since the Depression. 
The Government is failing badly. Production remains static, unemployment is increasing, inflation is barely improving and investment is falling. Stock exchanges' prices, obvious indicators of business confidence, are lower now than they were at the beginning of this year and are continuing to fall. Indices for secondary industry particularly are now well below their levels at the beginning of this calendar year. Yet on Sunday the Government announced tighter monetary controls. Credit is to be restricted and interest rates are to rise. 
Although the changes are not large they certainly will have the effect of retarding recovery even further. Higher interest rates will raise costs and higher credit will inhibit private investment. As one commentator wrote, many potential bank borrowers who would have been considered creditworthy customers last week will not be able to borrow this week. In addition there will be the gravely adverse psychological effect on a population which already has been unnecessarily punished by this Government. The tremendous attack on consumer confidence is continuing. The storm of reaction to the relatively small monetary measures shows that there is widespread unease about the Government's economic policies. Gloomy prognostications emanating from business, which the Treasurer noted in his speech last Friday, will be strengthened by these measures. Rather than encouraging the private sector the internal conflicts within the Government's economic policies are now worsening the economic environment. They are reducing business confidence. 
The Government is caught in a dilemma of its own creation. It promised, at election time, to abolish quarterly company tax payments. It did this on taking office. The answer from the Treasurer at question time today, as all objective commentators will note, was completely unconvincing. The result of abolishing the quarterly payments is that in the first 4 months of this financial year company tax receipts were $43m compared with $528m in the first 4 months of last year; that is, company tax payments are about $50Om lower so far this year when campared with the same period last year. This is the principal reason for the higher deficit in the first 4 months of this financial year when compared with last year. The deficit, after 4 months, is nearly $3 billion. As a result the money supply during the last 3 months has grown at an annual rate of 1 8 per cent, a rate of increase which is too fast when compared with the rate of consumer price increases of about 13 per cent or 14 per cent; and there has been very little real growth in the economy at the same time. If quarterly company tax payments were still being made, the annual rate of growth of M3 would have been about 1 1 per cent or 12 per cent. These rates would be well within the Government's monetary growth target. I supported the growth targets at the time, presupposing other more stimulatory measures in the fiscal field. But I do not support these targets now in the present very stringent circumstances which are creating grave unemployment and grave lower levels of economic activity in this country. 
If there had been the proper stimulatory measures which I have advocated we would not have needed or have had this unnecessary monetary package which was announced yesterday. This time last year the conservative parties made much of the size of the deficit after 4 months. The present Prime Minister cynically sang out, to his everlasting discredit, such memorable phrases as: 'We must rein in Government extravagances'. He was referring to a Budget deficit which is less than the Budget deficit which this cynical Government is running. In fact, the deficit this year is $2 50m larger than at the same time last year. The Labor Government was being called spendthrift. Both the Treasurer and the Prime Minister forecast that the deficit at the end of the financial year would have been $4.5 billion, a claim which had no credibility at any time. The decision to defer quarterly company tax payments has created a problem of monetary management. The whole community is now to pay the cost. It was part of the cynical buying of votes which took place at this time last year. Some of the unwanted liquidity of companies is probably being transferred overseas as a hedge against devaluation. So from every point of view the decision to defer quarterly tax payments was unwise and, as I have said and as I repeat, it is giving rise to this monetary package which is causing hardship. Many companies have greater liquidity than they are able to use because they must prudently put funds aside for tax payments. 
Borrowers have to pay higher interest rates. They will have their requests for loans scrutinised more vigorously, more rigorously, and their applications will be processed more slowly than hitherto. Some requests for loans will be rejected and lending for such things as housing will be lower than would otherwise be the case. As well the outflow of private capital has been facilitated and financed in part at least from temporary liquid funds of companies which have to set aside money for tax payments which will not be required until the end of the financial year. This is a clear example of a misguided government policy naively aimed at stimulating the private sector. But in practice it will be ineffective because it has not been accompanied by other appropriate economic policies. The principal error of government economic policy is that at a time of deep recession Budget outlays, excluding the family allowances which are largely offset by higher taxation, are likely to fall by about 8 per cent in real terms during 1976-77. It is time that the advisers to the Prime Minister and to the Treasurer taught them some simple economic realities. A government has one principal policy instrument available to it to influence the economy, and I refer to the Budget. Clearly it is the responsibility of the Government to act in a way which minimises fluctuations in the economy, which tries to smooth out the business cycle and which reduces structural problems. 
Most governments in industrialised countries increase real government outlays at times of recession and reduce them in times of boom. However, the Liberal and National Country Party Government because of its doctrinaire opposition to the public sector is reducing government outlays at the time of the deepest recession this country has known since the last war. The Treasurer continues to claim that the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development supports his policies. He said this today during question time. But he confuses reduction in the rate of growth of real government outlays in other OECD countries with sharp decreases in the total level of government outlays which are going on in Australia at the present time under his Government. Other countries reduce the rate of growth of public spending while the Australian Government is already reducing the real level of outlays. The effect of this is to reduce total demand for goods and services, making recovery even more difficult. Other major OECD countries continued to use expanding real government outlays to facilitate economic recovery in their countries during 1975 and they are doing so now in 1976. The President-elect of the United States of America is promising even more of this. For example, the Reserve Bank of Australia in its annual report noted: 
The Japanese recovery was heavily dependent on public sector spending. 
Australia is deliberately retarding economic recovery by reducing government outlays which account for about one-quarter of our economy. As well, personal disposable income has been reduced through the imposition of the Medibank levy and encouragement is being given to people to take out private health insurance. These measures have certainly reduced personal consumption on other types of spending. I suggest that honourable members ask any small businessmen in the community and that they look at the economic indicators right now. So a continuation of the decline in real retail sales which has been noticeable in recent months can be expected. 
The Budget Papers reported that increased consumption demand was essential to recovery. Tax indexation was supposed to be the agent for stimulating consumer demand. Of course, tax indexation merely removes the increase in tax receipts due to inflation. A higher proportion of personal income is still being withdrawn to tax payments as real incomes rise. Now the Medibank levy threatens further to lower the level of retail sales. Indeed, a Medibank levy is even counter-productive to the Government's stated aim of reducing the rate of inflation. By increasing the rate of growth of prices it will maintain the current level of price increases for many months; perhaps even a year longer than would otherwise have been the case. As well, it is an important factor in the maintenance of inflationary expectations which are themselves the principal cause of continuing rates of price increases. If a Labor Government were in office now the rate of inflation would be substantially lower because there would be no Medibank levy and indirect taxes would be reduced, providing a break in the inflationary spiral which would quickly lead to deceleration in the rate of growth of prices. As well, the level of unemployment would be considerably lower because of the selective stimulatory spending program which I have outlined previously and which would have contributed to increasing output in employment in the most depressed areas of our economy. 
Exports are the one sector which have been fuelling the Australian economy. Yet they are now under threat because of the slump in the rate of economic growth overseas. The OECD was expecting that the real gross national product would grow by 5 per cent to 5.5 per cent in member countries during 1976. However, as the  Economist  has reported recently, it now looks as if 3 per cent to 3.5 per cent will be nearer the mark in the second half of 1976. For example, in the United States of America which sets the pace for the level of world economic activity, the rate of growth measured in annual terms was 9.2 per cent in the first quarter of 1976 and 4.5 per cent in the second quarter. It may be down to 3.5 per cent in the third quarter. I mention these things because they are important for economic strategy in this country, and I wonder whether this Government has the flexibility to change its outlook in view of these new factors. In seasonally adjusted terms, exports fell by 18 per cent between July and October. This means all the more that stimulatory domestic economic policies as outlined by me and my Australian Labor Party colleagues are essential. I hope that the Treasurer will not attempt to use the investment figures for the June quarter which were released yesterday as support for his cause. I just refer him to the following comments in the  Age,  although I wish I had time to go over this matter myself: The Government is falling deeper into the mire created by rigid adherence to doctrinaire monetarism; A wide and growing body of professional opinion is arguing for a change in economic strategy. We share similar objectives- price stability, full employment, balance of payments equilibrium. Certainly we would give much greater weight to reductions-of income inequality than would our conservative opponents, yet the Treasurer persists with a naive, ineffective, unjust and incompetent approach to economic policy. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact, as reported prominently in one of Australia's major newspapers this morning, that the Prime Minister believes in the so-called justice of redistributing income to farmers and miners? How does he intend to do this? From where would the redistribution come? Would he have already done this were it not for the objections of the Reserve Bank of Australia? Did he, as suggested in the same report, go to church on Sunday and pray? If not, why not? 
-This Bill seeks to provide authority for the implementation of the forty-third Grants Commission report. The recommendations in the report were for special assistance grants to the States, but in fact the grants turned out to be only to Queensland. For the financial year 1976-77 Queensland is to be paid a grant. This circumstance has arisen because after negotiations earlier this year on financial assistance grants it was agreed that only that State would be eligible to make a claim to the Grants Commission. I will come shortly to the reasons why that is so. Special grants are paid by the Federal Government, on the recommendation of the Grants Commission, to claimant States which by reasonable efforts on their own part are unable to function at a standard similar to that of the average States. For this purpose the average States are deemed to be New South Wales and Victoria. Along with financial assistance grants, or tax sharing entitlements as I suppose we must now call them under the so-called new federalism, and along with the special revenue assistance grants, these special grants are part of the general revenue assistance to the States. This comprises the revenue the States receive to administer as they see fit. No strings are attached. 
The original purpose of special grants was to overcome the fiscal disabilities suffered by the less populous States. These grants are termed horizontal equalisation grants and their aim is to provide each State with the capacity to provide its citizens with the same fiscal deal as is provided to the citizens of any other State. For this purpose a fiscal deal is regarded as the net effect on a citizen of the charges- for example, taxes- a State makes and the facilities it provides for the quality of life of its citizens. At present the 4 less populous States- Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania- are free to apply to the Grants Commission for special grants. However, Western Australia withdrew from the Grants Commission arrangements as from 1968-69. South Australia withdrew as a result of an agreement between the Australian Government and the South Australian Government for the transfer of that State's nonmetropolitan railways to the Federal Government. In June 1975 Tasmania, which had to withdraw from claimancy from the beginning of 1974-75 following arrangements under which its financial assistance grants were to be increased, made application for special grants for 1974-75 and 1975-76; but the applications were subsequently withdrawn. 
It should be noted that, although individual claimant States have reached agreements with various Federal governments not to apply to the Grants Commission for the special grants, all four are legally entitled to do so. In recent years there has been a growing tendency for special grants to be subsumed into negotiated financial assistance grants. The 1975 report of the Centre for Research on Federal Financial Relations comments: 
The special arrangements with South Australia and Tasmania in 1974 and 1975 are indicative of a tendency for the distribution of general revenue grants, and thus the process of equalisation or horizontal fiscal adjustment, to become increasingly dependent on bilateral bargaining and political decisions rather than on systematic evaluation by the Grants Commission. 
Special arrangements in this area between Federal and State governments have not been limited to the years of Labor rule. I thought for a moment that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who is one of the few members in this House who understand these things, would be pointing out that I have drawn attention to political bargaining of which I do not approve in these matters. It is not only my Party that has fallen for this. For example, in 1959 and 1968 conservative Federal and State governments reached agreements for individual States not to apply to the Grants Commission in those years. 
It could be argued that, with special grants accounting for less than 0.03 per cent of total Federal payments to the States and with only one effective claimant State, the need for the Grants Commission is diminishing. I have previously put the view in this House- in fact, just a week ago tonight when we were discussing the revenue sharing Bills, the so called new federalism Bills - that I consider that the Grants Commission should be retained and given a much larger role, especially in the disbursement of local government funds. Thankfully, the present Government has stated that even if its new federalism arrangements come to fruition- I must say that this looks increasingly doubtful as the degree of State disquiet intensifies- the less populous States will have access to the Commission. 
I point out that the Grants Commission does much more than assess special grants. For example, in 1975-76 the subjects it investigated ranged from an investigation of the problems of measuring the revenue in relation to a number of taxes, land revenues and mining royalties to the measurement of diseconomies of scale and other special difficulties in relation to a wide range of cultural activities. Any body with such wide ranging fields of expertise should be exploited to the fullest. I repeat my call for the Grants Commission to be given at least an overseeing role in relation to these new State local government Grants Commissions. I presume that most honourable members would appreciate that there is a fair degree of irony in our discussing this Bill at this time. After all, the greater proportion of us are what the Queensland Premier would describe as southerners. Here we are discussing a Bill to give Queensland funds to overcome its fiscal disabilities when the Premier of that State has stated of his State, 'We could go it alone; we would be much better off'. There appears to be somewhat of a contradiction between the reality as the Premier sees it and as the Grants Commission sees it. In section 1.8 of the summary of the forty-third report of the Grants Commission it is stated that a special grant is given: to enable a claimant State to function at a standard not appreciably below that of other States without having to levy taxation and other charges of greater severity than in those other States. Its revenue needs to be supplemented because of: (a) its lower capacity to raise taxes and other revenue; and (b) its need to incur higher costs in order to provide comparable governmental services. 
For these reasons this Bill provides for the payment of $2 7m to Queensland. An amount of $ 18m of this is an advance payment in respect of the current financial year 1976-77 and the other $9m is a completion payment for the year 1974-75. As the honourable member for Lilley would know, these completion payments are for a particular year and are made 2 years after the advance payments for that year, after the Grants Commission has examined in detail the actual financial positions of claimant and standard States in the appropriate year. 
The futile, ill-informed and unnecessarily divisive talk that emanates from the Premier of Queensland on secession should be deplored from all sides of the House. We all know that secession is virtually a legal impossibility. The people of the separate States joined in a federation at the turn of the century to become one nation for a very large number of good reasons. The greater number of the major reasons for their decision at the turn of the century remain just as valid now as they did then. Some are even more valid now. The Queensland Premier talks rubbish about Queensland supporting the rest of Australia. Export figures are cited. No mention is made of who supplied the original investment which made such exports possible. No mention is made of the billions of dollars of taxpayers' money from other States over the years which have been used to help give Queensland the public facilities it possesses. This Bill is just one example of the money coming from the rest of Australia to that State. The Opposition is supporting it. I do not quibble with it. But I quibble with the nonsense that is talked on subjects like this by the present Premier of Queensland. I am sure that I have the support also of members of the Liberal Party in what I say. I repeat that Australia is one nation and must solve its problems as a single nation. The prattlings of the Queensland Premier should be consigned to the oblivion they deserve. I am sure that the great majority of Queenslanders find these utterances as embarrassing and invaluable as anyone else does. 
While on the subject of the Premier's public statements, I refer to his newfound concern for the unemployed.  His  stand on Fraser Island on which he opposes the cessation of mining because of the effects on unemployment must rank high on the list of hypocricies voiced by conservatives in this country. One must be forgiven for thinking cynically that he is prepared to use men's jobs as a lever in his personality struggle with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Why not put forward a plan for saving both jobs and Fraser Island as the Labor Party did in the House today? I must make comment upon the statement by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  on this subject. What a lot of hope it gave to the miners on Fraser Island. He merely offered them the services of the Commonwealth Employment Service to find other jobs or offered them merely the unemployment benefits which they will receive anyway. We have outlined already what we would do. This was stated in a speech in the House before the suspension of the sittings for dinner by the shadow Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, the honourable - member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  We would bring in such structural adjustment schemes as applied to industries hit by the 25 per cent tariff cut. We would be of real assistance in employing the men who are hurt by necessary, progressive decisions taken by the Government of honourable members opposite, decisions which we applaud for environmental reasons. But we do not applaud the way that the people who will be hurt by those decisions are being left on the scrapheap as this Government is leaving them. 
I point out,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that these remarks are pertinent to this Bill. As you would realise, they relate to money being made available to Queensland for its development. Surely it is time that the Government's ideological opposition to public spending was replaced with practical policies. A little bit of thought should be given to these things instead of the grandstanding and window dressing which we have heard and seen. Surely we could have this adjustment plan used as a pilot for other plans urgently needed in other parts of the country, just as this plan is needed now in relation to Fraser Island. They are the main points that should be made concerning this Bill, save one. The last point I want to make is to draw attention to how much better off Queenslanders would be now if their State Government had accepted the generous offer of the Australian Labor Government to take over its railways. The offer was accepted, of course, by South Australia and Tasmania. Thenbudgetary problems have been eased enormously. Their independence has not been hit one iota. Stupid, small-minded irrational conservative political attitudes such as those just displayed by the attempted interventions of some honourable members opposite are responsible for Queensland continuing to bear the burden of an enormous loss on its railways. The people of Queensland are the losers. In addition, their State Government is forced to continue to come cap in hand as a claimant State to receive the funds that are made available in this Bill which, I repeat, the Opposition does not oppose. 
-The Opposition is supporting this Bill, the Pay-roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Amendment Bill 1976. It fulfils a commitment made by the Government in bringing down its 1976-77 Budget. At that time the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  promised that the level of the exemption from payroll tax in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern 
Territory would be increased to the level which the States had then recently adopted. At that time the exemption level planned was $41,600 per annum. However, after that announcement the New South Wales Labor Government raised the exemption level in that State to $48,000 as from 1 January 1977. The present Federal Government, following Labor's lead and showing an unusual degree of flexibility, has decided to alter its Budget commitment to bring the territories into line with New South Wales. As the Treasurer rightly pointed out in his second reading speech on this Bill, it would be ridiculous for a payroll tax differential to exist between the Australian Capital Territory and New South Wales. Such a differential would affect the choice of location of business enterprises between the Australian Capital Territory and New South Wales. 
It is a pity that the Treasurer is not more concerned with the discriminatory effects that other government policies, including cuts in government spending and ceilings in Public Service recruitment, have had on the Territories. The effect of the measures contained in this Bill is that an employer whose total wages Bill is less than $900 a week will not have to register for payroll tax purposes. This should provide some measure of relief for small businesses, something that other government policies such as the investment allowance have not done. In mentioning the investment allowance, I pay tribute to the Hirers' Association which has mounted a magnificent display on the lawns in front of Parliament House today drawing attention to the injustices done to them in the investment allowance legislation. 
Although payroll tax is recognised today as just another part of the overall taxation system which obtains revenue for government, it was introduced in 1941 to finance a particular government scheme. That scheme was the child endowment scheme. The Pay-roll Tax Act and Child Endowment Act were introduced as companion measures in 1941. Child endowment was seen by the government of the day as an adjunct to the wages system. It was regarded as logical that part of the cost be borne by employers. Since that time, however, the practice of earmarking proceeds of various government revenue raising measures to particular expenditure proposals has been largely discontinued. Nowadays, child endowment or family allowances are part of general welfare expenditure and payroll tax is just another revenue item. Payroll tax remained a province of the Federal Government from its introduction in 1941 until the early 1970s. At the 
Premiers Conference in June 1971 the Australian Government agreed to transfer payroll tax to the States on the basis that, subject to certain qualifications, the resulting losses to the Australian Government Budget would be offset by reductions in financial assistance grants. 
The Prime Minister at that time- Liberal Prime Minister Gorton, it should be noted- suggested that the States should be given access to payroll tax as a form of growth tax. He felt that it would not be advisable for the field of personal income tax to be re-opened to the States. The conservatives have, of course, these days disassociated themselves from many of Prime Minister Gorton's pronouncements. However, when one considers the farce which surrounded the introduction of the new federalism tax sharing Bills, it would seem that the present Government should have paid more heed to the advice of its former leader. As a result of that 1971 Premiers Conference, the Federal Government now collects payroll tax only in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. Incidentally, I believe that  Mr Gorton  is held rightly in very high regard by many Australians. If we must have Liberals in this House, it is a pity that he is not still one of them. 
As this Bill enacts a measure which in design at least is aimed in the broad direction of affecting the level of income activities in the territories, I would refer briefly to that subject. What has happened to the territories, particularly the Australian Capital Territory, is a prime example of the inordinate effect a government policy applied indiscriminately across the board can have in a particular area. Since coming to power, this Liberal-National Country Party Government has made a virtue out of cutting public spending. In fact, it could be suggested that the prime vehicle of the Government's anti-inflation policy has been to cut public expenditure. Some sort of strange folk lore has been built within the Government regarding this issue. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer have begun almost to equate cutting public expenditure with cutting inflation which, of course, is quite absurd. 
The Government did that, as the honourable member for Corio says, back in the days of the last depression. There has been no recognition of the fact that when there is a substantial degree of unused capacity within the economy, cutting public spending will simply mean cutting employment. The level of inflation will be virtually unaffected by the expenditure cuts. Perhaps the Government's real reason for cutting back the public sector is actually to increase unemployment and hence by that means to lower inflation indirectly through prolonged unemployment. This would fit in with the strongly held theory that the aim is to postpone recovery until just before the next election. 
In implementing its wrong policy, the Government, through a combination of rigidity and lack of foresight, has caused a greater degree of disruption in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory than anywhere else in Australia. Any practical government concerned more with the impact of a policy than with the ideology of the decision would have taken steps to ensure that the cutting of government spending did not affect one region of the country more than another. Nowhere is the lunacy of the proposition that the public sector had to be cut back to allow the private sector room to expand made more apparent than in the Australian Capital Territory. In the Australian Capital Territory the private sector, from the retailers to the building industry, is dependent on the public sector for its survival. The percentage of the workforce employed by the public sector is much higher than anywhere else. The Government knew all this, yet it allowed no flexibility in its approach. Government spending cuts and staff ceilings were imposed across the board without any consideration of the consequences. The private sector was cut back just as effectively as the public sector. With all these harsh policies affecting the territories and, indeed, the rest of Australia- but as this Bill is about the territories I mention the particular hardships in them- at least it is a matter to be thankful for small mercies in that some alleviation is given to some people in the measures brought into law in this Pay-roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Amendment Bill 1 976. 
As so many people are of the mistaken impression that the Opposition opposes everything, I hope it will be noted that that does not apply to the Australian Labor Party in Opposition. We take a responsible attitude on all matters and support government Bills when they are correct. This is one of those cases. We do not oppose this Bill which gives some relief from payroll tax to small businesses. In fact, we support it. 

 -The Opposition supports this Insurance (Deposits) Amendment Bill. In May 1973 the Australian Labor Party Government introduced the Insurance Bill 1 973. The purpose of that Bill was to establish a comprehensive system of supervision of general insurance. The Bill presently before the House is part of arrangements for the carrying out of the business of insurance consequent upon that 1973 Act to which I have just referred. Prior to 1973 the only protection policy holders had against losses if their insurer became insolvent was a deposit which was required to be lodged with the Treasurer before the insurer was given permission to commence business. The Treasurer used these deposits to pay claims by policy holders against the insurance companies if and when any insurance company became insolvent. 
The protection offered by the deposit scheme was of limited value only. In general the deposit was insufficient to offer any real chance of adequate recompense being made to policy holders in the event of company failure. Furthermore, after the insurer had commenced business there was virtually no further supervision over that insurance company. However, in the 1973 Act, the Australian Labor Government introduced provisions requiring those companies wishing to commence new insurance business in Australia to be bodies corporate capable of meeting a set of standards of financial soundness which was set out in the Act. The standards in that Bill have stood the test of time. After an insurer has been given an authority to operate he is obliged to maintain those prescribed standards. Provision for continuous supervision is also made and a mechanism for dealing with those who fail to maintain standards is also in operation. 
The measures the Australian Labor Government introduced had been urgently required for many years. In fact, the Liberal and National Country parties before they lost power in 1972 had belatedly- due, I believe, to the persistence of questioning by my colleague from South Australia, the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)-  recognised the need for reform in this area. The extent of the proliferation of small insurance companies which had occurred under the deposit system of authorisation is given in the 1976 report of the Insurance Commissioner. Prior to August 1974, as we see from that report, the number of insurers legally entitled to operate in the Australian insurance industry was almost 400. By 30 June 1976 this number had fallen to 214. This reduction in the number of eligible insurers and the actual phasing out of the activities of those ineligible for registration has largely occurred without loss to policy holders and without a diminution in the insurance services available. In brief, the steps taken by the Australian Labor Government seem to have been effective in rationalising the insurance industry and limiting losses suffered by policy holders. 
As part of the transition period while the supervisory provisions of the Insurance Act 1 973 were expanded and are being expanded to cover the entire industry, the deposit scheme has continued to operate in a limited fashion. As an insurer is granted an authorisation under the Insurance Act he is no longer required to lodge a deposit with the Treasurer. However, those who have not yet applied for authorisation are still required to lodge a deposit. Also, those who may have been refused authority and who are still operating are required to lodge deposits. Obviously those companies which have been refused authority cannot be wound down until it is clear that they have effectively discharged their duties to their policy holders. That is why this limited deposit protection has been kept. Ultimately all those conducting insurance business will conform to the provisions of the 1973 Insurance Act. This amendment to the Insurance (Deposits) Act 1932 which we are debating right now provides for the circumstances I have just outlined. The deposit requirement is continued where appropriate and authorised insurers are exempt from its provisions and, where applicable, deposits are returned. 
It is pleasing to see that the reforms in the insurance industry which were brought in by the Australian Labor Government have been allowed to stand. I only say that it is a pity that some of the reforms brought in in other areas have not also been allowed to stand. Before resuming my seat I pay tribute to my colleague from South Australia, the honourable member for Hawker, who has specialised in this field of insurance legislation. As I said earlier, his questioning and his persistence have been largely responsible for the reforms in the insurance industry. I am glad that he is listed to take part in this debate shortly. The Opposition supports this amendment to the Insurance (Deposits) Act. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the Japanese Government has announced a number of expansionary fiscal moves, including a selective increase in government spending, in an effort to promote economic recovery? Are the Japanese policies an example of a government simultaneously seeking to combat inflation and unemployment? Are there lessons in this for Australian domestic economic policy? Would the Treasurer like to clarify his answer, given yesterday, concerning the revised forecast of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and bring his answer into line with published OECD statistics and other information? 
-The amendment moved by the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  may be, as he calls it, a technical one, but it is indicative of the mess surrounding this legislation. The Committee will remember that on the last occasion this Bill was before it a number of other amendments were made at the last minute by the Government dancing to certain tunes and reacting to pressures that were brought from elsewhere. On that occasion the Opposition made its position quite clear. It had no part of this legislation which was part of the so-called new federalism. The Opposition indicated that the amount of money made available to local government through this Bill was totally inadequate. It was not related to a growth tax; it was related only to income tax which, in times of tax indexation, we believe will not be a growth tax. 
We made it clear that local government would be uncertain of the amount of funds it was to receive in the future because of the ability of the 
Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to declare that certain parts of income tax were not income tax for the purposes of the calculation. We made it clear that we believed that the expertise in the Australian Grants Commission should be used rather than setting up all these separate bureaucracies- the local government grants commissions-in the States. We made it clear that there ought to be a maximum of 30 per cent of the amount being made available under this Bill for  per capita  grants rather than a minimum of 30 per cent, which, for example, has given rise to Western Australia making 80 per cent of the funds available on a  per capita  basis. Of course, the consequence has been that far less is available on a needs basis for the topping up process. 
Having made all those points, I state that the Opposition did not intend to become involved in these messy amendments which were introduced. This amendment is just another of those messy amendments. I think that, in drawing up this legislation, the Government ought to be ashamed of itself in relation to the whole concept it has adopted. It does not bring credit to it. The Opposition, while washing its hands of it, will not oppose the amendment. I felt it incumbent upon me to make those remarks about it. 
. However, I understand that he did refer to my State of South Australia. I do not know where he got his information about the alleged distribution of marihuana in that State but what I can calmly do is set out the facts. Even the  President  of the South Australian Pharmacy Guild, as did the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  earlier in this debate, has drawn attention to the fact that the present measures being used to combat the spread of drugs in our community are not working and that those who seriously want to overcome this problem- I assume that that applies to every member in this House and the vast majority of the community- would be well advised to look at measures adopted elsewhere and seek even the introduction of more committees of inquiry in order to try to find the proper method of overcoming this very great problem. 
The problem, of course, does not involve only marihuana and harder drugs. It also involves the drug alcohol and the spread of that form of drug taking in our community which is itself an increasing problem. I am proud of the fact that the South Australian Labor Government has taken an initiative in this field within the last week by announcing the setting up of a royal commission. I have no doubt that the royal commission will use the evidence which the Senate committee in recent years has gathered and I hope that it will take into account the work of the Council of Civil Liberties in South Australia and the views of the  President  of the Pharmacy Guild of South Australia. There is an alternative method of overcoming or at least reducing the harms of drug taking which was suggested in both those quarters: It is that drug takers should be registered and treated as people who are ill rather than as criminals and that by such registration maybe we can reduce the incidence of this harmful practice. I repudiate the sort of talk we have heard from the honourable member for Kennedy, as it has been passed on to me, to the effect that there is someone in political life in my State or elsewhere who is seeking to increase the problem. If anything, marihuana is a middleclass problem. Probably there are many more people in the middle income group suffering from it than in the lower income group but this is not something that would affect the sort of the cure I have mentioned. 
As shadow Treasurer I have responsibility for one of the 3 Bills before us. I notice that the Government Whip has suggested that I was not listed to speak in this debate. I certainly was on the original list of speakers and I apologise to him if we are delaying the House. However, I assure him that I will not be too much longer. I was drawn to my feet by some of the outrageous statements, which were passed on to me, apparently made by the honourable member for Kennedy. These 3 Bills are consequential to the signing of the Papua New Guinea Trade and Commercial Relations Agreement. The Opposition supports all 3 Bills. The Agreement provides a basis for economic co-operation in the interests of both Papua New Guinea and Australia. Trade is essential to the development of both countries. Fortunately the resources of Australia and Papua New Guinea are generally complementary and provide a mutually satisfactory and non-competitive basis for trade. However, this is not entirely so. 
The list of exemptions on the schedules to the Agreement under the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Amendment Bill 1976 is longer than would be in the interests of Papua New Guinea. Some goods which might be traded in the future are excluded from the Agreement reducing the potential value of the Agreement to Papua New Guinea. This is also contrary to the long-term interests of Australia because self-reliant development in Papua New Guinea and reduction of its dependence on Australian aid depends on expansion of Papua New Guinea s overseas markets. The Australian Government could have been considerably more generous in the negotiation of this Agreement in view of the high trade imbalance between Australia and Papua New Guinea. Such good sense would have encouraged economic development in Papua New Guinea in the long run without substantially affecting the interests of Australian industry. To the extent that there would be any cost to Australian industries, structural adjustment assistance should be made available. 
The interests of the wider community of consumers would have benefited from this arrangement had it been more generous. There have been some criticisms of the Agreement in Papua New Guinea. Some honourable members might have noticed a report of what  Mr John  Kaputin said. However, this criticism seems to miss the point. The aim of the Agreement is to provide a stable and co-operative structure for trade between our 2 countries. In particular it ensures access to Australian markets for goods produced in Papua New Guinea. The Agreement is not designed to provide better access to Papua New Guinea for Australian goods than for those of any other country. It is simply a modest and mutually satisfactory way of encouraging trade between our 2 countries. 
Australia has a unique responsibility to encourage development in Papua New Guinea. This encouragement must be completely unassertive and non-directive and must continue until at least the end of this century. It is essential that the Papua New Guinea people be entirely free to choose their own development but this does not relieve Australia of the responsibility to be a facilitating agent in that process to the extent desired by Papua New Guinea. The agreement between Australia and Papua New Guinea is the essence of these 3 Bills and I merely wanted to devote myself to that aspect. I was encouraged to mention the other matter only because of the way certain honourable members emotionally and, I believe, inadvisedly used this House as a vehicle to put forward views on drugs which would have been better kept to themselves. The Opposition supports these Bills. 
-Yes, I second the amendment which expresses want of confidence in the Fraser Government. This Government deserves grave censure because of its appalling economic performance. I speak now and do not reserve my right to speak later because, following past performances, the Liberal and National Country Parties will arrogantly downgrade the debate in this Parliament and allow only 2 speakers from this side. In spite of the grave nature of a want of confidence motion -not a step which the Labor Opposition takes lightly- we found on the only other occasion of such a censure debate in the past year that this was the tactic used. In a similar vein of arrogance, about which the Australian people have a right to know, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  often walks out of this chamber when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  is speaking. The Prime Minister did this on the last Thursday this Parliament was sitting when the Leader of the Opposition was replying to the Prime Minister's statement about the dismantling and dismembering of the Treasury. In a similar arrogant vein we find junior Ministers put up to answer urgency motions and to reply in discussions of matters of public importance. We witnessed such arrogance today when notice of a censure motion was not accepted by the Government. This is the first time, as far as I am aware, for many years that such arrogance has been displayed in this Parliament. 
The Conservatives have followed their performances of a year ago of disregarding conventions, of grabbing power by any means, with a disregard and a downgrading of Parliament. The Opposition will use every means to resist this. It is because I am speaking now and not after the Prime Minister that I have asked the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  to use the 30 minutes available rather than for me to use that 30 minutes. I throw the cry from honourable members opposite back in their faces. I repeat that I asked the honourable member for Oxley to do this so that there would be at least 3 Opposition speakers in this debate. 
The Australian people will not be denied the opportunity today of hearing more in this Parliament about the disastrous economic performance of the men who, in their own estimation, were born to rule. I repeat that at least there will now be 3 Opposition speakers unless, unprecedentedly, the motion moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  that the honourable member for Oxley should have 30 minutes to speak is not adhered to. The Government stands condemned for this massive  IVA  per cent devaluation. By any test and on any standard it has failed- and failed abysmally. Just 12 months after it usurped power on the pretext that it could handle the economy better than the Labor Government could, its economic policy has fallen into complete disarray. Both the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Prime Minister have destroyed their own credibility and that of their Government. We witness already a call from their own back bench for the Treasurer's resignation. The Government has now admitted defeat of its economic strategy in a move which has been appallingly handled. There is confusion as to why the decision was made. On the same day- almost in the same breath- on the one hand the Treasurer says that the move was forced upon the Government and on the other hand the Prime Minister contends that it was a measure designed to stimulate the manufacturing sector and save the mining and rural sectors from an unreasonable burden in the fight against inflation. 
The Government was not forced to devalue. It is an incompetent decision taken by a government after a year of incompetent economic management. The free market system which it champions with unabashed zeal has judged its policies and found them wanting. The recent capital outflow has, if nothing else, been a massive vote of no confidence in the Government's ability to manage the economy. In this context, the Treasurer's announcement of devaluation is the Government's recognition that the general thrust of its economic policy has failed miserably. And failed the conservatives' economic policy certainly has. The plethora of economic statistics revealing sluggish consumer demand and stagnant production are there for all to see. Even the Treasurer has admitted that consumer spending is flat. The statement and the assertions he has made to the Parliament today are dishonest, to say the least. They were not supported by any statistics. 
If there was insufficient data before that the general tack of the Government's economic policy had failed, last week's investment figures should have provided conclusive evidence. Seasonally adjusted new capital expenditure by private businesses in Australia in the September quarter was 6 per cent lower than in the June quarter. Investment in the September quarter of this year was only 5 per cent higher than in the September quarter of 1975. These are the people who grabbed power on to the excuse that they could manage the economy better. Allowing for inflation, this must mean that private sector investment was about 8 per cent lower in the first 3 months of this financial year compared with the first three months of the last financial year. These figures confirm the estimates of business expectations announced in recent months. They were announced last week when this House was not sitting. They provide further confirmation of the seriousness of Australia's recession after a year of this conservative Government. Only on rare occasions has investment been a leading factor in stimulating economic recovery. This is clearly what the Prime Minister and the Treasurer were stupidly advocating when they spoke in their election campaign speeches of the need for an investment-led recovery strategy. That concept also lies in tatters as we in the Opposition saw earlier this year that it would. 
The Liberal and National Country Parties apparently expected investment to increase autonomously in a vacuum. This was their hope and it was completely naive. The encouragement promised and given to potential investors through the excessively generous 40 per cent investment allowance and the deferment of quarterly company tax payments are clearly ineffective in the absence of increasing overall effective demand. The Australian Labor Party has said correctly all along that what we need and must achieve is a consumer-led recovery. The Prime Minister and the Treasurer apparently felt that simply the existence of a LiberalNational Country Party Government in power would be sufficient to increase business confidence and so facilitate growing investment. I repeat that this was quite naive. Businessmen have more good sense and do their sums more carefully. They know that unless effective demand increases, growing investment will simply lead to growth of idle capacity. The motivation to invest does not exist unless economic recovery gets under way. 
The Government has repudiated use of its major weapon of fiscal policy for stimulating recovery. It has deliberately sustained the recession by reducing Government outlays. I have said before but I must repeat again that Government outlays are actually being reduced. In the package announced at the time of the massive devaluation, we were told that we must suffer more of the same wrong policies. Excluding family allowances, which are largely offset by higher taxation, Government outlays are likely to fall by at least 8 per cent in real terms in 1976-77 compared with the previous financial year. This estimate takes no account of the results of the further review of expenditure announced by the Treasurer on Sunday. That is, the Government is deliberately, as a matter of policy, sustaining Australia's worst recession since the war by reducing Government demand. 
One of the longer term consequences of this policy is seen in the investment figures to which I have drawn attention. A low level of investment now delays not only economic recovery but also the growth of the industrial capacity and, therefore, the longer term rate of economic growth. This is one of the causes of the loss of confidence at home which has spilt over into a loss of confidence abroad which has had such grave consequences and which has led to this devaluation. Investment is crucial to economic growth. A low level of investment over the last 9 months since the Liberal-National Country Party policies began to bite means that increases in the capacity and efficiency of Australian industry have been retarded. The Government apparently thought that by destroying parts of the public services, gaps could be created which could be filled by the private sector. We said that this was wrong. We said it all along. Now it is seen to be wrong. The economy is a dynamic system and not a box. If one part of that system acts as a brake, this tends to bring the rest of the system to a standstill or at least makes it very much more difficult for the rest of the economy to keep going. 
Throughout the last few months it has been progressively the previous Labor Government, the unions, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, and last night the Government's Public Service advisers which have apparently been the excuse and have been made the scapegoats for Liberal-National Country Party failures. I must draw attention again to the Prime Minister's speech in Adelaide which I consider to be despicable. He used the Public Service advisers as his excuse for this massive devaluation and massive alteration to Government policies. It is incredible that the Treasurer expects us to believe that it was the decision of the Arbitration Commission to grant a 2.2 per cent full indexation rise at its last hearing that tipped the scales and forced devaluation. The Budget Papers themselves were framed on the assumption that wages would rise by 12 per cent in the fiscal year 1976-77. A rise of 2.2 per cent in the September quarter was not incompatible with that forecast. I assert that this absurd criticism of the Commission was retribution for the thoroughly justified criticism of the Government's economic policies it made when handing down its last decision. But it is part of the threats which conservatives are developing against the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and of which all Australians should be aware. 
I turn to a consideration of the massive devaluation itself. It is perfectly reasonable for a government to deny that it intends to devalue. But, as the Leader of the Opposition has said, this Government has taken that tactic to an absurd extreme. The Prime Minister, in an address to the Stanford Research Institute on 15 November, stated that external policy was being used 'to create an environment where businesses can plan ahead '. He added: 
If reserves cannot be used without causing concern they are of little use. 
He also stated that Government borrowing should be taken as a sign of strength'. The business sector that believed the Prime Minister and planned accordingly has now learnt the lesson that all believers in constitutional conventions learnt last year. This man cannot be trusted. The cry of 'we will not devalue ' must now have a very similar ring to that of 'we will not refuse Supply'. The confidence of the community has been shattered. The credibility of this Government in Australia's capital market is nil. This loss of respect is gravely harmful for our future prospects. For instance, this will affect our opportunities for raising loans. We have from Cabinet leaks the information that the Prime Minister has been the main proponent of devaluation. Obviously, his ideological predilections have led him to reject the advice of his public servants. I draw attention again- I wish I had more time to quote this material in length- to some of the comments made by the Prime Minister in his speech in Adelaide last night. 
The Government has subjected many Australians to hardship in the cause of its antiinflation policies, from which it consistently said it would not be shifted. Any advantages which might have flowed from that hardship have been callously sacrificed. Up to 5 per cent will be added to the rate of inflation by this decision. The actual increase will depend upon the extent of the success that the Government has in depressing living standards of wage earners by preventing them from recouping devaluationinduced price rises. This is a miserable policy. In essence, it is squeezing the wage and salary earners and the small and medium sized businesses of this country for the benefit of the large mining companies. As I said when I first was given the news of this devaluation, all ordinary Australians have a right to be angry at the decision. I experienced that anger in the Sydney capital market yesterday. Certainly there will be nothing but further hardships for the beef, dairy and fruit industries as a result of increasing costs in those industries, without any hope of increasing the benefits as a result of revaluation. To deal with that farming sector very quickly, I point out that those are the sections of primary industry which are most hurt by the recession that Australia is suffering at present. 
This package, which inevitably goes with devaluation, is an horrendous one. Interest rates will now rise. The money supply will be squeezed. Such a credit squeeze hurts the medium and small businesses in particular and not the blue chip concerns. Wage and salary earners take a cut in their standards of living, as I have already said. In other words, the ordinary man in the street will be the loser. Now, not only will he pay higher prices for imported goods but also he will pay more for his housing loan. Those who expected to borrow to purchase homes will find that the supply of credit has been cut off. The ordinary Australian is to be sacrificed to those speculators who will make millions out of this devaluation decision. The Government has spoken glibly of the benefits which will flow from increased foreign investment. The Treasurer mentioned $7,000m, yet there has been no announcement as to how this flow will be controlled. The Treasurer resisted such an announcement today.  Mr Speaker,  Sunday's package spells disaster for our country. The Government's anti-inflation strategy is in tatters. We have more of the same wrong policies- cutting Government spending, confronting the unions, creating industrial disharmony, further credit squeezes and higher interest rates- continuing to be perpetrated. There is a grave loss of confidence in our Public Service. There are very few of our citizens who stand to gain more than they will lose out of this devaluation. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Which operating companies and holding companies are involved in exploration and development of oil and natural gas on the North West Shelf. 
What proportion of the equity and of the voting strength on the boards of each of these companies is held by Australians. 
Do the ownership and control arrangements of these companies meet the Government's foreign investment guidelines. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that, with the abolition of dependant taxation claims, children can now earn over $2,500 without increasing their parents' or guardians' net income tax, and that many families have transferred investments and investment income into discretionary trusts so that their children can earn the income from these investments. 
How many high income families will receive a double benefit from this generous provision in the Government's family allowances program. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) In view of the deficit on the first 3 month's financial transactions by the Government of $2,276m compared with the budgeted deficit of $2,608m, what is the level of the deficit now expected for 1 976-77. 
If there is any change in the expected deficit, what factors are influencing this revision. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his Department made any attempt to study the effect of the investment allowance on employment creation. 
If not, does the Department plan to conduct or commission research on this issue. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
In relation to the Asian Development Fund, did the Government decide in August 1976 to untie the outstanding balance of our multi-purpose special funds contribution so that it could be transferred to the Asian Development Fund, or had the Government already stated its intentions by March 1976 when the Asian Development Bank published its Annual Report which indicated that this was so. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations upon notice: 
Can he say what is the average wage rate and average earnings, or the closest equivalent to the average wage rate and average earnings figures published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, m each OECD country. 
-These 4 Bills were introduced into this House only last Wednesday afternoon, after my Party's last meeting. I must place on record my objection to such complicated legislation being hurried through this House. If anything, the drafting and introduction to this House should have been given high priority after the Budget announcements, because these income tax Bills arise from the Budget. It is all part of the disarray which we have witnessed over the last few minutes, not only in relation to the Government's economic policies but also in relation to the management of this House. I must admit that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  gave me advance notice of the subjects of the Bills, but this has been no substitute for studying in great detail the actual wording of the legislation. Furthermore, there has been no time for the community to contact honourable members on both sides of the House with objections to the wording of this legislation. 
What I now have to say is subject to those earlier comments. The Opposition may have amendments to move to any one of these 4 pieces of legislation in the Senate or later on after the community has had time to absorb what is in these Bills. Although critical in a positive way of some aspects of the legislation, the Australian Labor Party Opposition is not opposing any one of the 4 Bills. Before referring to the specific measures which the Government has introduced in the Bills before us I intend to comment on aspects of the Government's general performance in the area of taxation. One of the great myths that the Government, aided and abetted by its media supporters, has attempted to sell the Australian people is that it is actually lowering the burden of taxation upon individual taxpayers. Nothing could be further from the truth. We all recall the great fanfare with which tax indexation was introduced in one go. The Treasurer spoke loud and long of the $1 billion which was being put back into the pockets of taxpayers. 
-Predictably, the Treasurei made very little of the tax rises which he announced at the same time as he talked about tax indexation. However, the man in the street was soon to feel the effect of the Medibank levy and the phasing down of the home interest deductibility scheme. It is incredible that any government which, in its Budget and associated measures, reduces a family s take home pay by $300 could have the gall to claim that its Budget was the first in 3 years not to raise the indirect tax burden. Now that the full impact of tax indexation and the Medibank changes have been felt we can obtain an indication of the tax burdens borne by Australians under the 1975-76 Labor Government tax scales and under the 1976-77 Liberal-National Country Party Government tax scales. 
In the edition of the  Taxpayer  of 30 October the editorial page is headed 'Despite so-called full tax indexation personal taxes are much higher now leaving less spending money than before'. In the body of the journal calculations are given for a taxpayer with a wife and 2 children. After adjustment for higher child endowment, health taxes and inflation we find that in 1976-77 the family that had earned $10,000 for 1975-76 has had its spending power reduced by $5.15 a week. I ask leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table setting out the tax comparisons, the source being the  Taxpayer of  October 1 976. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="102131197612065_42_0.jpg"></graphic>

Of course, those people who find, in addition to the above, that their housing mortgage interest deductibility is being phased down are in a worse position still. The types of calculations to which I have referred above have been done by numerous groups. All these people reach the same conclusions. The net effect of the taxation measures introduced by this Government has been to raise, not lower, taxation. For example, the authors of the Econometer in the  National Times of 2  October conclude as follows: ... by June next year, when inflation has sent wages up and the temporary benefits of tax indexation have been nearly eroded, almost everybody, except low wage people on around $ 1 00 weekly with lots of kiddies, will lose. 
I might add that with the inflation now to be expected as a result of this disastrous devaluation what the Econometer authors wrote on 2 October will be made even more true. I am glad that low wage earners with families to support are exempted, but they are the only ones. I deplore the misrepresentation perpetrated on the Australian community to the effect that everyone has benefited from tax changes. This just is not true. These facts speak for themselves. This Government has, as the Treasurer would put it, in the totality of the situation raised and not lowered taxation. It really should not come as a surprise that the Government and its influential supporters should attempt to hoodwink the public into accepting the myth that taxation has been reduced. After all, were not the myths surrounding support for Medibank and wage indexation, promises of 6 to 7 per cent economic growth in the Government's first year and of cutting the deficit without cutting essential public works sold with equal gusto? And to the same extent they have turned out to be sheer myths and totally untrue. 
Perhaps the Treasurer and even the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  secretly realise that their Government has increased the tax burden. After all, they both continually refer to the Government's intention to cut taxation. It is difficult to reconcile the Government's call for consumers to go out and spend now with their hints that tax cuts are just around the corner. Surely it is reasonable to expect that the consumer will delay his purchase until he finds out just how much he is to get out of the tax cut. This is just another example of the inconsistency which pervades this Government's thinking. It is creating a climate which can only exacerbate the uncertainty many consumers feel. Perhaps the best advice that can be given to the Treasurer as he roams the country hinting at tax changes comes in the form of the quaint but effective colloquial expression: 'Put up or shut up. ' 
Any public debate regarding taxation invariably comes around to international comparisons of tax burdens. In recent times many groups, including the Government, have tended to project the impression that by international standards Australians are very highly taxed. This is probably an opportune moment to set the record straight on this matter. In the report of the Asprey taxation review committee an international comparison of total taxes as a proportion of gross national product for the year 1971 is given. In this comparison Australia ranked 16th out of 22 countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, that is, only six of the OECD countries surveyed had lower total taxation levels than did Australia. By 1973 the position had changed little. The publication,  Revenue Statistics of OECD Member Countries,  revealed that of the 23 countries surveyed only 5 countries had lower overall tax levels than Australia. 
Starting from an acceptance of Australia's real position in the international taxation league, there is of course much room for reform in our taxation system. The report of the Asprey committee is a rich source of material on this subject. The Labor Government introduced a very significant reform in the replacement of concessional deductions with the rebate scheme. This went a long way towards restoring a degree of the vertical equity which had been eroded through the use of concessional tax deductions. It is to be hoped that the Government looks long and hard before it even considers bending to interest group pressure to alter the Labor rebate scheme. 
Senior members of the Government have hinted a number of times that in Australia income taxes are too high and indirect taxes on goods and services too low. Indeed, by international standards Australia does lean more heavily on income tax for revenue than do most other countries. However, this very fact does not mean that we should blindly change the emphasis of our taxation system. Income taxes rank much higher on the grounds of vertical equity than do taxes on goods and services- indirect taxes. On the other hand, such income taxes do result in high rates being applied at the margin and the consequent high marginal tax rates on high incomes are alleged, by conventional wisdom, to be a disincentive to work effort. I say 'by conventional wisdom' because there is little hard evidence on this subject. Indeed, studies of tax incidence have been sadly neglected on the whole. So far there is as much evidence to show that people work harder to compensate for less take home pay as there is to show that they work less hard if their net benefits are not great enough. In looking at tax reform it is important that we do know the actual impact any tax changes may have on people's incentives to work harder. I repeat my hope that more work will be done on that subject. 
-As the honourable member for Lilley says, it is a very important point. More evidence needs to be collected so that we build our policies on sound facts, not just on vague beliefs. It is important also that any move towards a wider use of taxes on goods and services recognise that these are in fact consumption taxes which do not discriminate between incomes in their impact. Their wider use must be coupled with moves to lessen the burden on low income earners. Most indirect taxes are regressive in nature but qualifications must be made to the general statement. Indeed, in Treasury Taxation Paper No. 5, published in October 1974 and entitled  Commonwealth Taxation of Goods and Services,  a number of means of offsetting the regressiveness of indirect taxes are canvassed. These include special modifications to the income tax system and appropriate adjustments to social service payments. As an example, in Sweden the trend to greater reliance on broadly based income taxation has been accompanied by compensatory changes in their income tax and social service structures. 
Any informed debate on taxation levels will include a recognition of the other side of the coin- the services provided by government expenditure. Lowering taxes is one of the few things a politician can suggest which is guaranteed popular acclaim. However, it must be recognised that there are many goods and services which individuals aspire to possess but which as individuals it is beyond their scope to provide. For example, no matter how much taxation is lowered to allow people supposedly to spend as they choose, the restrictions on any individual or group of individuals being able to provide a better road or any other community facility are such that the task becomes impossible. The Government is the proper medium through which demands such as these may be fulfilled. Taxation plays an important role in their provision. It is a vehicle of collective payment. 
Recently the newspaper the  Australian  ran an interview with the Treasurer in which, among other things, taxation reform was mentioned. In its leader article on the same day that same newspaper eloquently put the case against our present levels of taxes. To put the debate in perspective, however, I should like to quote from a letter to that newspaper from Judy Suttor, the policy officer of the Australian Council of Social Service in Sydney. This letter was prompted by the editorial and read in part: 
Adjustments to the personal income tan system which ostensibly gives individuals greater ' independence ' in spending power to meet their own needs do nothing to assist those who are not wage earners and those whose income (be it wages or a pension) is inadequate to enable them to live decently and disguises the fact that important welfare and human services are either not available or become effectively inaccessible to the public who need them. 
That is the close of my quotation but I recommend the full contents of that letter to anyone interested in more than the peripheral aspects of .a debate on taxation. I agree that personal income taxes must not be allowed to rise so high that incentive is killed and productivity suffers. But I believe that most Australians have a social conscience. They want to live in a fair society, and understand that a fair amount of progressive taxation is needed to achieve this. 
As well as being a source of revenue, taxation in all its forms is an integral part of a government's intruments with which it may influence the level of economic activity. Different taxes have different speeds and extents of influence. For example, indirect tax changes are recognised as having a faster and more substantial impact on activity than an equivalent amount of direct tax changes. Lowering indirect taxes has the added advantage of directly lowering the price level. It is obvious that in this area the Government has failed to use wisely policy options open to it. A lowering of indirect taxes, as suggested by the Labor Opposition, could have led to a reinforcement of the downward trend in the inflation rate included by overseas influences. An obvious fall in the inflation rate in the December quarter, rather than a substantial rise, as we must expect, would have gone a long way towards restoring economic stability. In addition, indirect tax cuts would have stimulated consumer spending, thereby helping to get our economy moving again. 
I refer now to the specific measures introduced in the Bills before the House. In all there are 4 Bills. Three of them, the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1976, the Loan (Income Equalisation Deposits) Bill 1976 and the Loan (Drought Bonds) Amendment Bill 1976, are concerned primarily with giving effect to proposals announced in the Budget. The fourth Bill, the Income Tax (Companies and Superannuation Funds) Bill 1976, declares the rates of tax payable by companies and superannuation funds for the 1976-77 financial year. As explained by the Treasurer the rates of tax set are the same as those established in the 1975-76 Budget for that income year. The Opposition does not oppose the Income Tax (Companies and Superannuation Funds) Bill 1976. It could hardly do anything else as the 1975-76 Budget was a Labor Budget. It was a thoroughly satisfactory Budget and it is a tragedy to know that it was tampered with because the tampering, including the cuts in government spending and all that has happened since the beginning of this year, has given rise to the disastrous effects on consumer confidence in this country which have flowed over to affect the confidence of overseas investors. This has given rise to the terrible consequences of this massive devaluation with all the horrendous policies that go with it, about which we have so far heard only a part. 
Considering the damage that has been done to the economy since the strategy of the 1975-76 Labor Budget was destroyed by this Government, it is a matter of deep regret that the company and superannuation fund tax rates are one of the few measures from that Budget still allowed to influence the economy. While on the subject of company taxation, I would counsel the Government to be careful in introducing its stock valuation adjustment scheme. As yet, details of the scheme are only sketchy. I heard one or two questions being asked in the Senate today, even from the Government side, requesting more details of the scheme, but the Government is not giving; it is not telling us more about the scheme. However, it is hoped that when any decision is made, adequate time is allowed for discussion of the Bills involved, time for all interested parties to comment and to have their comments taken into account before legislation is passed. In my opening remarks on these Bills I stated that I hoped that such time would be given for these measures because there is no more complicated legislation than income tax legislation. I do not blame any of the officers concerned at all, whether they are attached to the Parliamentary Counsel or to the Taxation Office. It is a question of priorities to be set by government. In this case the whole country ought to know that there has not been time for people outside this Parliament to absorb the wording of the legislation and to be able to counsel members of Parliament about the changes that are being made and to show just how these changes will affect them. 
It would probably be preferable if the Government would, in the case of the legislation relating to the so-called Mathews proposals, actually present the Bills to the House and allow a considerable time to elapse before they are debated, something which I hoped would have happened to these 4 Bills. A series of statements from the Treasurer, as happened with the investment allowance legislation, probably would allow a repeat of the confusion surrounding that particular investment allowance legislation. We want to see the actual Bill, in the case of the Mathews proposals, in plenty of time to avoid the confusion that has arisen in the case of the investment allowance proposals, confusion which may arise out of these 4 Bills before us now. 
I turn to the measures contained in Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 3) 1976. Two of the measures, those dealing with transitional provisions for visiting experts and with mining in Papua New Guinea, are associated with arrangements made under the Labor Government, and are not opposed. There in also a technical drafting change involving a new definition of a resident of Australia. As explained by the Treasurer in his second reading speech: 'The need for this change arises out of the alteration of the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund.' The Opposition accepts the need for this change which is made in clause 3 of the Bill. 
Clause 4 of the Bill allows for the exemption from tax of income derived by the Thalidomide Foundation. This represents a welcome change in a Government decision. Previously the Government had decided to make grants to the Foundation rather than to exempt income from taxation. An original grant of $150,000 had been made. Considering the amount of compensation which has been made or is in the process of being made, the grant was clearly inadequate. Under these arrangements the income that each child receives from the foundation will be exempt from taxation. This measure by the Government reflects the attitude of the Labor Party when in government. The Opposition supports the Government in this measure with regard to the taxation of the income of the Foundation. I repeat that I am glad that the Government has belatedly adopted Labor's more generous thinking on this measure of taxation of income for thalidomide victims. 
Clauses 6 to 8 and 31 to 36 of this Bill enable the setting up of a scheme of income equalisation deposits. Deposits lodged by primary producers with the Commissioner of Taxation under the income equalisation scheme are to be allowable as tax deductions, while withdrawals of deposits for which deductions have been allowed will be included as assessable income for tax purposes in the taxation years in which those deposits are redeemed. The recommendation for this measure comes from the report of the Industries Assistance Commission titled 'Rural Income Fluctuations- Certain Taxation Measures'. This report was handed down as a result of a reference from the Labor Government. The object of the measure is to reinforce the existing tax averaging system for primary producers. The need for such schemes arises out of the higher tax burdens which people with fluctuating incomes bear under the progressive tax scale. It is felt that people who, over a given number of years, receive equal income should pay equivalent amounts of tax on that income. The Opposition has considered carefully the possibilities for abuse of this scheme and is satisfied that sufficient safeguards exist to minimise such abuse. It also investigated the possibility that the LAC recommendations should be followed more closely, the IAC having recommended that only the investment component, that is the non-tax component of the income equalisation depositsthe IEDs as they will become known- should have interest payable on it and that the rate of interest should be the medium term bond rate. 
The rationale for such a recommendation by the IAC was that under the present scheme being instituted by the Government, the effective interest rate received by investors varies with their marginal tax rates. The higher the income, the greater the tax rate saved and, thus, the greater the return. However, the Opposition is convinced that there are considerable administrative difficulties involved in implementing the letter of the IAC report, more equitable though its recommendations might be. Bearing this in mind and also the willingness of primary producers, the lower income primary producers as well as the higher income producers, to accept this scheme, the Opposition supports this legislation. If there are abuses and greater inequities in the implementation of the scheme than are now envisaged, and knowing that the vast number of farmers themselves seek equity and realise that one man's gain is another man's loss, the Opposition shall seek reforms. 
Clauses 9, 10 and 35 of the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 3) 1976 refer to changes in taxation arrangements for private companies. The retention allowance in respect of trading or business income available to private companies for undistributed income tax purposes is to be increased from 50 per cent to 60 per cent, the increase first applying in respect of the 1975-76 financial year. Broadly speaking, private companies, as defined for taxation purposes, are subjected to additional tax at a 50 per cent rate to the extent that those companies do not make a sufficient distribution to shareholders in the relevant year out of after-tax income, as reduced by specific retention allowances. This move should give a measure of relief to private companies who play an important role as employers in the economy. As it is designed to help small businesses, unlike many of the Government's other business incentives, the Opposition supports this change to the tax laws. I make the observation, however, that any improvement in the cash flow position that private companies may gain from this move will assuredly be eroded by increases in interest rates and inflation which will stem from the Government's recent devaluation decision. 
As I have pointed out on another occasion, the draconian monetary and fiscal policies which inevitably must follow and are following the massive devaluation hit the medium and smaller businessmen as well as the wage and salary earners rather than those who can, of course, borrow at blue chip rates and particularly those who can borrow overseas. At the same time as the Government has moved to increase the retention allowance it is withdrawing excess distribution provisions. Previously if a private company distributed dividends greater than the stipulated amount the excesses were allowed to be carried forward to later years to reduce the amount which must be distributed in those later years in order to avoid undistributed profits tax at a 50 per cent penalty rate. This concession is being removed. The Opposition was concerned that any benefit that companies may receive from the increase in the retention allowance would be offset by this aspect of the measure. It has also been brought to our attention that insufficient time has been allowed for companies to adjust their affairs to fit in with the legislation. 
The Australian Labor Party does not like legislation which has a retrospective element in it as this legislation could have. However, on balance we have accepted the argument that the previous system was open to wide abuse and despite elaborate legal measures such avoidance could not be countered. Also it appears that very few genuine cases will be disadvantaged by this move. As the retention allowance is being raised it is an opportune moment to take this action. We trust that all those who have access distributions in their companies arising from genuine transactions and not from tax avoidance schemes will be able to use their excess distribution by the end of next April and thus not lose the benefits. 
The remaining measures in the Bill concern aid given through taxation concessions to the mining industry. Two of these measures, firstly the allowance for more rapid write-off of development expenditure of petroleum mining companies and for those expenditures and exploration expenditures to be deductible against income from any source and, secondly, for mineral transport facilities to be deductible over either 10 or 20 years and to include certain port expenses, are not being opposed by the Opposition. Our appropriate caucus committee has examined these measures in depth and has accepted the need for them. Special risk factors involved in petroleum mining exploration and the need for development of our natural resources are sufficient grounds for the Opposition not to oppose these concessions. Although the Opposition is not opposing the other measures relating to mining operations, namely the allowance for more rapid write-off of development expenditures of general mining companies, we do raise some doubts. The Government has decided that deductions which currently are allowable over the estimated life of mine or field will for new expenditures be allowable on reducing balances by reference to a maximum life of 5 years instead of the present 25 years. This will have the effect of increasing the minimal annual rate of deduction from 4 per cent to 20 per cent. The Industries Assistance Commission recommendation on this issue was that the depreciation should be over the life of the mine or the asset or 1 5 years whichever is the least. It implied a straight line method of depreciation which is also the method recommended for the tax system in general by the Asprey report. The Opposition feels that the Government measures are excessively generous. However we do see the need for the existing concessions to be altered in the miners' favour. I close by saying that these mining measures will be covered by the shadow Minister for national resources. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Viner)  adjourned. 
I ask the Treasurer: Is it a fact that $ 1,000m flowed back into this country during the S working days of last week since devaluation, these funds inevitably being speculative funds? With the multiplier effect of inflows into the banking system being up to five-fold, with no changes to statutory reserve deposits, does this not mean an increase in the volume of money of up to $5,000m last week? Does this explain the 2 per cent up-valuation announced today? May we expect variations to our currency values each time there is a major inflow or outflow? How are the changes to our currency being calculated? Is the old basket being maintained? Will the Treasurer help to overcome the terrible uncertainty about these currency matters which pervades the community? 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
What formula has been worked out by the International Bauxite Association for the pricing of bauxite and" alumina for discussion at the next Council meeting of the Association? 
What are the implications for Australia of this approach? 
-The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  have destroyed any credibility they may have had as economic managers. For an inadequate, naive and simplistic policy obsessively concerned with just one economic aim, a policy which led to massive and disastrous devaluation, they have now substituted virtually no policy at all; or are we to revalue back to 17 1/2 per cent in dribs and drabs at 2 per cent a time? Is this what will happen in the name of a viable policy? I might add that the Prime Minister and the Treasurer also treat this Parliament with utter disdain. Today is no exception. I mentioned in a speech that I made last week on the economy that they do not come into this Parliament and defend their measures. Neither of them are here to defend the grave claims made against them in this debate on a matter of public importance. Instead we have the most junior member of the Ministry and a back bencher, neither of whom were involved in any way in the decision making. They may be able to articulate better than the Prime Minister and the Treasurer about what has occurred but they are not responsible for it. 
I take this opportunity to state again that for 10 months now, as Shadow Treasurer, I have been seeking to debate economic policy with the Treasurer in the media- on television and radio- but on no occasion has he fronted. Instead, we get people like the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  or today, the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee).  Let me outline some of the inconsistencies, some of the reasons why this Government now has no credibility and some of the examples of how it has left chaos and uncertainty in the country in failing to specify clear and consistent economic policies. I quote first from the Budget Speech of the Treasurer which reads: 
We have made our first priority the absolute necessity to combat inflation. 
This was the constant refrain of all Government economic spokesmen until 10 days ago. 
-How can any honourable member say that it is right now when the Government has completely thrown out that policy. The Prime Minister said on 15 November: - 'We intend to be unrelenting in our anti-inflation policy'. He also said on that day: 'Getting back to a fully satisfactory basis of economic policy won't be possible until inflation is beaten'.  Mr Lynch  said in his Budget Speech that reducing the rate of inflation was the central aim of the Government. Let me quote him further: 
Not merely because of the direct hardships that inflation obviously brings, because unless we can break inflation we shall not succeed in restoring full employment. 
The obsessive pursuit of this single aim was used by the Government as justification for imposing enormous costs on the community. A universal and simple health insurance scheme was destroyed. Spending on housing and on decentralising urban services was slashed. A deliberate policy of retarding economic recovery was pursued. By reducing real government outlays- in other words government spending in real terms has been reduced, a policy unique to Australia amongst member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Developmentunemployment was increased and maintained at historically high levels, alienating and demeaning scores of thousands of youths entering the workforce for the first time and humiliating tens of thousands of established wage earners. Investment was discouraged and structural distortions introduced to the economy which will take years to correct. All this was done in the name of reducing the rate of inflation. Even before the devaluation the anti-inflation policy was not consistently pursued. 
The Medibank levy will add in the order of 2 per cent to the annual rate of growth of prices. The effectiveness of the Prices Justification Tribunal is being severely curtailed by changes to its legislation. Indirect tax cuts which could have reduced another couple of per cent from the rate of growth of prices were not introduced. On 28 November, after constant categoric and even contemptuous denials, the Government devalued by the largest amount in living memory, or should we say that the Prime Minister devalued. Not a single person has denied that this devaluation will contribute substantially to inflation. The inane comments of the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  and the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield),  who are seeking to interject, will not change that one iota. Devaluation will add markedly to inflation and there is no responsible commentator who would gainsay that. Published estimates of the addition to the rate of growth of prices vary from 2 per cent or 3 per cent a year to 10 per cent a year. A conservative estimate cannot realistically be less than 3 per cent or 4 per cent a year. 
I am glad that the honourable member for Barton says that this is quite right. Of course this will add to inflation. Honourable members should compare this with the extraordinary pressure from the Government for the introduction of plateau wage indexation, which at the most will contribute only 0.8 per cent to a lowering in rate of growth of prices. 
For short term sectional reasons the Prime Minister and the Treasurer by devaluation have made a decision which more completely undermines their previous aims than could any other possible policy. They have fuelled inflationary expectations- the principal driving force behind price growth- and by refusing to examine the implications of their decision or to set alternative policies for controlling inflation they have set no limits to the growth of inflationary expectations. The Government says that it will control inflationary effects of devaluation by preventing price increases flowing on to wage earners through indexation. This claim is not credible. The Liberal and National Country Parties rejected powers over wages and incomes by opposing the referendum 2 years ago. There would be massive community opposition to the abolition of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Yet there are still hints that this is to be done. Despite the utterly reasonable and understandable policies of the trade union movement the Government continues to set the stage for vicious confrontation. The Government does not have the will or the goodwill to come to reasonable terms with the wage and salary earners of our country. I understand that further announcements coming from the party meetings of today will do nothing more than exacerbate the relationships with the trade union movement. Some selective tariff cuts could dampen the inflationary effects of devaluation. But the Government is vacillating. The devaluation has resulted in about an 80 per cent increase in the average rate of protection. Yet immediately after the announcement the Prime Minister declared that there would be no reductions in the tariffs to offset the inflationary effects. 
More recently the Treasurer and other Ministers have said that the possibility of tariff cuts is under consideration. The principal point is that this issue was not thought through when devaluation was being discussed by Cabinet. The devaluation decision was not part of an integrated package of economic policies. The massive devaluation was a reversal of policies without the effects on the other arms of economic policy being thoroughly explored as they should have been by good economic managers of this country. The same is true of monetary policy. The Treasurer said that devaluation was forced on the Government by a host of other enemies of the State yet, he says, the benefits of devaluation will be enormous. He quotes the possibility of an inflow of investment funds of up to $7 billion. If even a small portion of that amount of capital flowed into Australia, how could the Government cope with the increase in the money supply without stringent restrictions on the availability of credit and a sharp increase in interest rates? We have already seen some of these increases in interest rates. Does anybody believe that we have seen the end to increases in interest rates if anything like the $7 billion of funds comes into this country? Of course they do not. 
What about the multiplier effect of this massive flow into the banking system? In a question I asked today I showed that the multiplier effect could be five-fold. Of course something has to be done with regard to variable deposit ratios, statutory reserve deposits, or a combination of the two. What do we have? We have no policy at all. We have a vacuum. All we have is dribs and drabs of upvaluation of currency- this time 2 per cent. The Government's attitude looks more like a denial of the logic of what is happening than a realistic appraisal of the consequences of devaluation and of ways of coping with those consequences. It is rhetoric rather than rigorous analysis. 
In the Budget the Government described a rough monetary target for a growth of 10 per cent to 12 per cent in the volume of money over the course of 1976-77. Although such targets can never be more than tentative, the Treasurer has continued to state that this remains his target for the money supply. This target is now clearly impossible, given the acceleration and the rate of inflation which inevitably follows devaluation. Even his chosen advisers like Professor Hogan and Professor Snape say it is impossible, if I read correctly the article by Tony Thomas in the  Age  of today. Yet no alternative indication of the expected rate of growth of M3 has been forthcoming, and this has left all branches of the capital market in a state of severe uncertainty about the constraints that will be placed on the rate of growth of money supply and therefore on the monetary conditions in which they will be working during the rest of the financial year. 
Money market operators are bitter. They had trusted the Government in its statements of its strong intention to reduce inflation and had designed their policies accordingly. Now they have been betrayed. With their resentment goes the hope of proper management of Government loans and of proper and adequate funding of the money supply in this country. All Government theories about recovery have been abandoned. The year began with the assertion that investment was the key to economic recovery, but when it became clear that businessmen were rational profit maximisers who would respond to the level of effective demand the Government switched to looking for a consumer led recovery. In the absence of any sign of improvement in retail sales- in the most recent months there is an absolute decline in retail sales- the Government appears to have switched to looking for recovery led by foreign investment and exports. This is an inadequate approach also. Enormous concessions to foreign investors lead to continuing growth in the proportion of the mining industry, in particular, which is owned outside Australia. Unnecessarily generous concessions are being offered to mining companies. On the other hand, the Government is turning to the hope of an export led recovery at a time when economic growth in the rest of the world is faltering. In fact, the rate of growth overseas is slowing down sharply and is causing grave concern in the financial and industrial centres of the world. On Friday, the Prime Minister said that devaluation would permit manufacturers to increase production so enabling them to contain costs. He said: 'They have a great responsibility to do so'. 
This is utterly naive. It is the Government's responsibility to create the conditions which make it possible for manufacturers to contain costs. 
To top it all off, we had today's announcement of a 2 per cent revaluation. If ever there was a confirmation of the blunder of the devaluation announced a week last Sunday, this is it. Let no one be misled into believing that this is a reasonable result of the managed float. It is nothing of the sort. Such a 2 per cent change so soon is extraordinary. It will create more uncertainty in financial circles in Australia. It has brought enormous windfall profits to speculators. It is no substitute for other necessary monetary and fiscal measures, as I have already indicated. The only ray of hope on the horizon is that there appears to be now a  de facto  recognition by the Government of what the Opposition has been saying all along- that is, that the Government must attack inflation and unemployment together rather than simply concentrate on inflation. Both aims are important and both can be tackled together. However, by its devaluation decision, the Government has made such an attack even more difficult because inflation has been exacerbated and the effects on employment are likely to be small. There will not be any great increase in employment in Australia. 
Australia desperately needs rigorous and enlightened economic management, free from doctrinaire obsessions, with reductions in the public sector outlays and attacks on trade unions. The intention of this debate is to draw attention to this lack of leadership. For the sake of Australia, I hope that the Government, with its advisers, can quickly work out a comprehensive and detailed set of economic policies so that all sections of the Australian community can plan effectively. Indeed, planning for such a recovery is desperately needed. I do not believe that this can now happen under this Prime Minister and this Treasurer. The disarray on the Government back benches in the last week leads me to the conclusion that Government members are demoralised and bewildered, and understandably so. There is only one thing that Government supporters can do for Australia. Presumably, for their own skins, they will not want an election so they must put a stop to the ad hockery and to the inconsistency. They must speak out for the hundreds of thousands of unemployed Australians. They must act for the millions whose living standards have been cut in the past year. They must get rid of these men- the Prime Minister and the Treasurer- who have led us into this mess. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's dme has expired. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-by leave-The subject of natural disaster insurance has been before this House now for more than 10 years. This is just one more episode in the saga. It can be compared to  Blue Hills.  I hope that, as in the case of  Blue Hills,  one day we will have an episode which means that the matter has reached a satisfactory conclusion. I suggest that this is another example of lack of action by the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. I draw attention to the fact that as long ago as 18 April 1967 a member of the present Cabinet, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  as the honourable member for Moreton asked a question of the then Treasurer, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon),  on this very subject. The subject has been taken up by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  He asked questions on notice on this matter and received answers on 4 October 1967, 26 November 1968, 26 September 1969, 12 June 1970 and 9 December 1971. 1 am indebted to the honourable gentleman's prodigious memory for drawing to my attention the way in which this important subject of insuring and providing proper compensation for the victims of natural disasters has gone on and on in this House. 
There is no excuse for lack of action on the part of the present conservatives who rule us. They were responsible when we were in office between 1972 and 1975 for stopping legislation relating to the Australian Government Insurance Corporation which contained specific proposals to cover the victims of natural disasters. So we can lay at the feet of the Liberal and National Country parties the fact that inadequate cover is still given to many victims of natural disasters in this country who suffer losses as a result of these terrible events. 
I want to commend the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  in particular who has worked persistently since he arrived in this House on the same day as I did at the end of 1969 to bring to the attention of the House the lack of insurance cover in this area. I hope that instead of the establishment of more working parties, more committees and more investigations, which is all that we heard of in the statement made by the Minister, some decisions will be made and some action will be taken so that the victims are properly covered. Every year we get a new example of the need for such cover. I ask that the next time the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  rises to speak on this subject- and I hope it will be very soon- it will be to announce action and not just the establishment of another committee. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to make a short statement on the same subject. 

 -Mr Speaker I seek leave to make a short statement. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1) On which goods imported from developing countries, referred to in his statement on 17 June 1976, have rates of duty been increased. 
What were the previous, and what are the new rates of duty on each of these goods. 
What are the rates of duty on these goods which apply to other countries. 
Which goods which have previously received tariff preference have had their tariff preference removed. 
What were the values of imports from developing countries of each of the goods referred to in parts ( 1 ) to (4) of this question during 1973-74 and 1974-75, and for as much ofl 975-76 as information is available. 
What is expected to be the reduction in the value of imports from developing countries of each of these goods as a result of the new tariff arrangements in 1 976-77. 
What definition of a developing country is used for the purpose of administering the system of tariff preferences for developing countries. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Precisely which accounting aggregates are used to measure the savings ratio. 
What have been the movements in these aggregates and in the savings ratio during each quarter of the last 5 years. 
-Has the Treasurer noted the report from the latest edition of the London  Economist  to the effect that Australia's devaluation was not justified on balance of payments grounds, will worsen a dangerously unmanageable inflation rate and could spark off a rash of competitive devaluations and/or trade restrictions by our trading partners? Have these criticisms by a conservative economic journal of world repute caused him to doubt the wisdom of indulging in such an enormous devaluation? If not, can he say whether the prospect of retaliatory action by our trading partners is one that he views with equanimity? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does the ration of Budget outlays to gross domestic product, used as a summary measure of the Budget in Budget Statement No. 1 show either the contribution of Budget outlays to GDP or the impact of those outlays on the economy. 
If not, what alternative measures would more effectively reveal these relationships. 
What have these measures been in each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What has been the value of new (a) capital expenditure by private businesses and (b) foreign private capital expenditure in Australia since the Liberal-National Country Party Government came to office. 
What has been the value of investments processed by the Foreign Investment Review Board since the Government came to office. 
How much of the proposed investment described in answer to part (2 ) has actually been expended. 
What is the value of proposed foreign investment, additional to that described in answer to part (2), which has been announced by companies or advised to the Government. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his Department made any attempt to study the effect ofthe investment allowance on employment creation. 
If not, does the Department plan to conduct or commission research on this issue. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many investment proposals have been received by the Foreign Investment Review Board since its establishment 
On how many of these proposals has the Board recommended (a) acceptance, (b) rejection, (c) resubmission after revision and (d) other action. 
What is the total value of these investment proposals on which the Board has recommended approval in each industry. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he given instructions for the Report of the Film and Television School for the year 1 973-74 to be reprinted at an additional cost of $2,000. 
If so, was this expenditure ordered because the present Prime Minister objected to the former Prime Minister being designated as Prime Minister in the Report, even though the former Prime Minister held that position during the period covered by the Report. 
In view of the Government's desires to cut public spending, what is the justification for this waste. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say which members of the OECD have investment allowances as part of their company income tax systems. 
If so, at what rates are these investment allowances available and what are the principal circumstances in which they are available. 
-Never in our nation's history have so many economic statements been made to so little purpose than have been made during the 14 months of this Fraser Government. What we do not want are statements; what we want is action for economic improvement. This statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  is the most futile of all. It has told us nothing new. Its theme is complacency. It is a litany of all the announcements we have heard already during the parliamentary recess- a litany of many more mistakes which have been inflicted on the Australian community. I am not now moving an amendment setting out the Opposition's views. That should wait until the Opposition's no confidence motion, of which notice has been given, is moved. The Government did not have the guts to debate the no confidence motion at the time when all precedents demanded that it should be debated, namely, at the time notice of it was given. 
We know that the Treasurer is incompetent at debating economic matters and that is why for the second time now we have seen the Government chickening out of answering a no confidence motion. But that is no reason at all why the Government should not debate such a no confidence motion at the time when precedent demanded it. It is a good case for having a change of Treasurer. Yesterday the Government called a meeting of its full Ministry to seek to putty over the cracks in its facade. It wants to put pressure on its back benchers at its party meeting tomorrow. I hope that at that party meeting a better fist will be made of an economic statement than has been made of the one we have just heard, otherwise we will have looks coming out of that meeting very similar to the ones that are on the faces of the 75 or so honourable members opposite who had the misfortune to listen to this economic statement. 
As evidence of the haste in which the statement was drawn up let me tell the House that I received the first 1 1 pages at 1.30 p.m., the next 6 pages as they arrived hot from the Treasury at 2.05 p.m., the next 4 pages at 2.15 p.m., and the final 3 pages at 2.30 p.m. today. We know that the Treasurer reads Treasury statements well but we would rather hear him debate in the House and defend his Government's policies, as at this time he should be responding to an Opposition no confidence motion. Perhaps the most worrying aspect of this statement and the Government's handling of the economy is that through its Treasurer, its acting Treasurer and its Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson),  the Fraser Government continues to assert that things are not as bad as everyone else is making out. Today's statement was no exception to that assertion. In his opening paragraph the Treasurer said: 
The year 1976 was a year of considerable progress towards the 3-year goals we have set ourselves in bringing Australia's economic problems under control. 
Who on earth does the Government think it is kidding? Who on earth does it think does not look at the statistics and the indicators that are coming out now and compare them with those of a year ago? 
-As the honourable member for Prospect reminds me, one indicator that should have come out 3 weeks ago is the consumer price index increase. The Government is not game to publish it because it knows that it will be a scandalous amount, caused by increases in Medibank and hospital insurance charges for which the Government itself is responsible. But it is not just today's statement which shows that complacency. In a letter to the  Australian  on 7 February the Treasurer rejected calls for stimulus to the economy on the grounds that 'the moderate but steady recovery in economic activity now proceeding is likely to outstrip- not fall short of- the course which we laid out in that respect in the 1976-77 Budget documents'. Do honourable members recall that Budget Speech of the Treasurer when he said confidence had returned? That was the theme of that Speech. Is there anybody in Australia at the moment who thinks that that was a truthful statement- that indeed the economy is on the course that has been designed for it? For instance, was devaluation designed in the Treasurer's documents at budget time? Of course it was not. It was forced on by incompetent economic management earlier which led to overseas people having a lack of confidence which meant the withdrawal of funds. That is not the only statement that the Treasurer has made along these lines.  His  optimism is reminiscent of the chap who thought the  Titanic  was simply converting to a submarine as it disappeared beneath the waves. To use one of the Prime Minister's favourite analogies, if this Government were managing a business the shareholders would be justified in accusing it of criminal neglect. 
The Treasurer has said that this Government yields to no one in its concern for the unemployed. He did not have the gall to repeat that in this statement today. But to this date the only concern this Government has shown for this group is an uncanny ability to increase its numbers. In its 15 months in office the Government has taken few decisions which have had a beneficial effect on economic activity. Perhaps at the start of a new parliamentary year it is worth cataloguing a few of the blunders in economic management made during 1976. I do this in contradistinction to the whole theme of that dreary statement to which this House has just had to listen. 
If I may start my litany, this conservative Government started early with the abolition of quarterly tax payments for companies and the introduction of the overpriced Australian saving bonds. The tax deferral decision proved to be a sleeper in terms of economic management with the full impact of its foolishness felt not until November. However, the effect of the Lynch bonds was immediate and devastating. Millions of dollars were taken from building societies and invested in the bonds. Funds for housing from this source declined dramatically. Levels of activity in the housing industry fell sharply. The domestic money supply was contracted so sharply and quickly that in the June quarter only unprecedented action by the Reserve Bank of Australia saved the country from a massive credit squeeze. This is the start of this litany of disastrous decisions taken by this Government. Then came the changes to Medibank. This was a decision based mainly on ideological grounds but, which prior to devaluation, had the economic implication of giving inflation its biggest boost for some considerable time. 
The honourable member for Prospect reminded me earlier about the consumer price index. No fancy words in this statement alter the fact that the Medibank levy and indeed the hospital insurance increases are blunders of great magnitude. If this statement has any message it is that the Government intends to welsh on its promise to the trade union movement that the consumer price index increases due to Medibank and hospital insurance increases will pass through to the national wage without any opposition from the Government. The trade union movement believes that that is a Government promise and I remind the Government of that promise. Incidentally, I make the point that the consumer price index for the December quarter was due out at least by 21 January. I repeat that point. It is based on a new basket of goods and services, I know. But I believe- and I make this charge- that it was Government inaction on decisions in relation to that basket which was responsible for holding up that consumer price index increase announcement. I make the charge again and in addition to that I believe that the staff ceiling in the Australian Bureau of Statistics is adding to the problem. The Bureau requires adequate staff in order to get further information on which vital economic decisions will be based. I believe that the Government is delaying the announcement on the consumer price index until after the Western Australian elections to be held next Saturday. 
Returning to the litany of errors, in August last year the Budget was notable for the extent to which it cut back Government expenditure. Contrary to what the Treasurer has said, his Budget was one of the very few budgets amongst the member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development which in a time of recession attempted to lower the real level of Government outlays. Apart from the disastrous social impacts of many of these cuts in Government spending in areas like Aboriginal affairs and health, the heavy economic impact was also felt I have said time and time again that these cuts not only have a direct impact in that fewer people are employed in the Government sector of the economy but they also have an impact on the private sector which misses out on contracts with the public sector. This cutting of Government spending has an enormous effect on consumer confidence which above all is what is required to get the economy moving. Cut backs in State capital works projects meant many deferred projects hence lay-offs and unemployment in the building and construction industry. 
In November last year the Government devalued the currency by 17Vi per cent. That was another of its litany of errors. Its economic policies had been judged and found wanting by those interests powerful enough to move large sums of money out of the country and its decision to defer company tax payments had given these people the dollars with which to speculate. Even at this stage speculation against the dollar could have been stopped by a strong and resolute Government. After all, many European countries I listed them earlier- had borrowed extensively and are borrowing extensively outside their own boundaries to ward off such a speculation induced devaluation. But the Prime Minister was weak.  His  hysterical and ill informed criticism of Labor's attempts at borrowing abroad had meant that to do the right thing by our nation he would now have to admit earlier mistakes. This he would not do and the Treasurer and the Treasury were overruled. But this massive about-face was not to end there. Within days the currency was up-valued. Further revaluations followed. I think the latest tally is that 8 revaluations upwards have been introduced. There may have been one more today. I apologise if I am not up to date. Any businessman vaguely concerned about the exchange rate was, and still is, very confused. The new system of setting the exchange rate is arbitrary and secret. There is only one way of describing it: It is a random peg. The Government has left itself with the worst of all possible worlds by its decisions in this exchange rate area. 
That sad and sorry sojourn brings us to the present time. I would be the first to admit that recriminations over the past will do little to help us in the future, but as long as the Government continues to cry that all is well- and that is the message of this dreary statement we have just listened to- and refuses to admit its errors which is another message of the dreary statement then it is my duty to remind the Government of these facts. The facts of the present situation are as follows: Inflation over the last 6 months of 1976 was, and will be shown to be when we have the consumer price index results, much higher than it was in the last 6 months of 1975- the last 6 months of the Labor Government, need I say? The Treasurer's statement on this subject is totally misleading. This, coupled with the devaluation decision, means that Australia must face 1977 expecting an accelerating rate of inflation. This circumstance has virtually been brought on solely by conscious Government decisions. I will repeat them: They are those concerning Medibank, other health insurance increases and devaluation. In other words, in its 14 months in office the Government has acted consciously to advance, not retard, the rate of inflation. 
The outlook on the employment and production front is, if anything, worse than that on the inflation front. Registered unemployed persons in Australia at the end of January stood at 354 589. That is a rather bland statistic that conceals a mountain of distress and misery. It also conceals the fact that there are thousands of married women, older people and school leavers who have not registered because they have no hope of a job. Unfortunately, things below the surface are even worse than those which are indicated by the record post- War level of unemployment which I have just given to the House. In the 12 months to November 1976 the labour force grew by approximately 10 000, some 100 000 fewer than in previous years. This means that 100 000 productive persons whom we could have expected to start work during the last year were unable to start work because of this Government's actions. The tragic and irrevocable loss to Australia of this continuing high level of unemployment is immense. The Associated Chambers of Manufactures has put the loss in consumer spending at around $2,200m a year. The business world itself shows no optimism for the future. It will receive with a hollow laugh the sentence in the Treasurer's statement which states that the Government is creating an environment in which the private sector will slowly come out from its state of shock. What a ridiculous sentence that is. 
Although profits in the last quarters of 1976 were high, not many company reports indicate that such a circumstance is expected to continue into 1977. Overtime per worker worked in large factories declined to 2.2 hours per week in December. It was as high as 2.6 hours earlier last year. The Prime Minister himself then pointed to rises in hours of overtime worked as an early indicator of an improving economy. Perhaps he now accepts that a decline in overtime represents an early indicator of a further slump in the economy. It is generally accepted that the level of overtime will have to reach 3 hours per week before factories substitute more staff rather than pay higher overtime rates. This appears to be a long way off under this Government. The one true sentence in the Treasurer's statement is this: 
I am certainly not suggesting that at every turn one finds economic activity booming. 
That is an understatement if ever there was one. 
I could go on and on with depressing statistics, for example, statistics that show that people are losing jobs at nearly 3 times the rate at which new jobs are becoming available. There appears no point in continuing with this litany. Everyone knows, with the exception of the leaders of the Government, that the economy is in crisis. The Melbourne  Age  of 7 February called it 'A tragedy that nears disgrace'. Even the Government's own backbenchers know that something must be done. A lot of them are confused as to what options the Government has open to it but most of them have heard from their electorates. The Prime Minister may isolate himself as the gentleman farmer in his comfortable seclusion but I remind his backbenchers that it is they who will have to carry the brunt of the electorate's displeasure with their Government's inaction. I ask them to act accordingly. Inaction it is; complacency and neglect it is also. 
The Treasurer holds stoically to his belief in the aggregates, the national accounts, described by many writers as being little better than random numbers, and even described by the Prime Minister as not being accurate. The Treasurer ignores all calls for action. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  having just released the worst unemployment figures since the Depression, regaled the growing numbers of unemployed with the following remark: 
Excluding New South Wales, the labour market situation remained relatively stable or even improved slightly in some States. 
This sort of quotation epitomises the problem from which Australia is suffering: a Government which totally fails to recognise the gravity of the present economic situation. What can the Government do? To listen to the Prime Minister and the Treasurer one would think that they were following a path of divine enlightenment and that deviation from it would be akin to heresy. Granted the Government's decisions on Medibank and devaluation, its antagonistic attitudes towards the unions and, indeed, the way it usurped power itself 14 months ago, have made economic management in 1977 a very difficult proposition, but there is a way out. The twin problems of inflation and unemployment must be fought together. I have said that many times in the past 12 months, notably in my reply to the Budget but it is gratifying to find now, for example, that the  Age  on 7 February stated the same proposition. 
The outlook on the inflation front is much worse at the beginning of 1 977 than it could have been or should have been. Consequently, the stimulus that must be given to an ailing economy must be directed in areas where it will have maximum impact. Because of the high rate of inflation the stimulus can be only modest but it must be given. It appears that the man in the street endorses such an approach. A recent survey by a group at Monash University found that a large majority disagreed with the Government's policy of increasing unemployment as a means of controlling inflation. I am indebted to the monthly summary of the National Bank of Australia for January for this information. The Australian Labor Party has an alternative economic strategy. It recognises that the present high level of unemployment is more than just a cyclical recession. We believe that a general shift in fiscal stance by the Government could substantially lower the present rate. To return to historic levels of lower unemployment will require new manpower retraining and adjustment programs. The Fraser Government refuses to recognise this. 
Taking in mind the need for a modest stimulus which can increase unemployment without worsening inflation, the Australian Labor Party has put forward a proposal of which the first arm is a selective stimulatory government spending program divided between special grants to the States for spending on urgent civil works programs where plans are already in hand and where the spending can be put to greatest effect, particularly where the building and construction industry is depressed as it is in New South Wales, and grants to local authorities for local initiative spending. The Regional Employment Development scheme requires updating in its administrative arrangements but we believe, just as  President  Carter of the United States believes and  Mr Fukuda,  the new Prime Minister of Japan, recognises, that there is great need for such local initiative job creation programs. The third area where this stimulatory spending should be made is on manpower programs such as youth employment subsidies, apprenticeships, vocational and technical education schemes. The schemes that have been announced by the present Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations in no way meet the sort of programs that we have in mind. I am indebted to the work of the Australian Council of Social Service built on information given to it by the Labor Party and collected from Sweden for a very worthwhile document on this very subject of manpower programming which has recently been published. 
The second arm of our alternative strategy is that indirect taxes should be cut and, in substitution, grants should be made to the States to reduce public sector charges. This would be a far more effective stimulus to our economy at this time than cuts in direct taxes as are being advocated by some. It would be easy for the Opposition to climb on the band wagon of suggesting cuts in direct taxes. What we are putting forward as our alternative strategy is being done in a responsible way. It is something which we believe will reduce unemployment, stimulate the economy and, at the same time, will not worsen the inflation situation. Cuts in indirect taxes would also mean that real incomes would be increased directly and would provide a greater boost to consumer spending than would direct income tax reductions. 
No matter how the Government and its media allies attempt to distort this strategy that I have outlined, this package, as some have called it, is not irresponsible nor is it a recipe for unbridled inflation. I have repeated that assertion in a letter which is published in today's  Canberra Times,  namely that we recognise that there are inflationary impacts in what I have suggested, but we believe that those inflationary impacts will not just be reduced but will no longer exist. It is a careful but modest policy for a slow return to higher levels of economic activity. It is reasonable to note that bodies such as the Institute of Labour Studies at the Flinders University in South Australia and also the Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research at the University of Melbourne have endorsed programs along these lines. In the last week the Australian Council of Social Service, as I mentioned earlier in an aside, has released a paper outlining policies in keeping with those policies which I have announced to the House tonight. Unlike the Government, it recognises the long term damage being done to the economy by prolonged unemployment. 
New governments in the United States and Japan are using their public sectors as active agents in the fight against unemployment. In Australia unions and business leaders- this is reported in the  Australian Financial Review  of 14 January- have reached 'an astonishing degree of consensus' on the fact that the Government is mismanaging the economy.  Mr George  Polites, Executive Director of the Australian Council of Employer Federations, appears to have agreed that indirect tax cuts could be financed through higher loan raisings without raising interest rates. There is the potential there for a consensus approach to our problems and for a basis for restraint from all earners of income. But the Government cannot achieve that consensus. It is intent on reducing the living standards of wage and salary earners. We hear no entreaties to other income earners to limit and restrain their incomes. We hear no calls for price restraint. All we see is confrontation with the trade union movement, both white and blue collar unions, in order to reduce living standards of the workers in 1977 in the same way as they were reduced in 1976 by the Fraser Government. The Government is intent on reducing living standards. This group alone will bear the brunt of the battle with inflation. That is the Government's aim. 
Seeing that the profit share of the gross domestic product has returned to historic levels, as we said it would, there can be no justification, if ever there was any justification, for this assault on the wage and salary earners of this country continuing. Profits and investment will increase as the economy gets going. The economy will get going only as a response to government stimulus. Implied in the Labor Opposition's alternative program is a small but significant rise in the money supply growth rate. We call on the Government strictly to limit further capital inflow and, in the short term, to concentrate on increasing the supply of money from domestic sources. We are persuaded by warnings from the Government's traditional allies- for example, the Bank of New South Wales and the Company Directors Association- that there is very real danger of a drastic credit squeeze ahead. Nothing that the Treasurer has said in his statement can possibly contradict those dire warnings. 
To argue in the way that we have in no way abandons concern for the money supply, but it does recognise the fact that money supply control is a weapon of economic policy, not a goal in itself, and it must be used accordingly. The backbenchers who so avidly follow the Government's restrictive money supply targets must be made aware  of  a number of things. Control of the money supply is no magic panacea for controlling inflation. The two things are not the same, just as cutting government expenditure does not necessarily cut inflation. In Australia, with rigid labour markets, a money supply growth rate substantially lower than the rate of inflation, plus a margin for growth, is likely to have a far greater effect on raising the level of unemployment than it is on lowering the rate of inflation. Even Milton Friedman, one of the gurus of the present Government, has admitted to that. 
So there we have it- an economy in crisis, a crisis of this Government's making. It is a Government which refuses to admit the problems and hence refuses to take action. We in the Opposition have outlined an alternative approach which I call on honourable members opposite to force upon their leaders before it is too late. Let us see who are the informed people; let us see who are the courageous people when we get our leaks from the Liberal and Country Party Caucus meeting tomorrow. Australia has a Labor Opposition which is not opposing for the sake of opposing. We are being constructive in our criticism, putting forward an alternative, workable, modest program. We are aware of the inflationary dangers. We have met those dangers in our constructive proposals. 
All of the huffing and puffing in this economic statement which we are at present debating does not reduce by one iota the need for a change in government and for a new economic strategy. What it does is merely highlight the fact that the Government has not seen the error of its ways. It shows that the Government is not aware that the economic problem that we have is one of great structural unemployment. This is no normal cyclical recession; this is a problem which requires new attitudes and new policies, just as the great depression of the 1930s required new policies and new attitudes. We believe that only if we get away from the ideology of the Government, which suggests that there must be a cut in public sector spending, which suggests that if there is a cut in the public sector the private sector will fall in the hole, will we have a return to something like the unemployment levels that we had in the 1950s and the 1960s. 
The world has changed. There is no doubt that the needs of the people in relation to consumer durables, such as washing machines and so on, will not be as great in the late 1970s and early 1980s as they were in the 1950s and the 1960s. It is also quite clear that the labour force is not as docile as it was when this country was implementing massive immigration programs. It is also quite clear that we will never again have available to us commodities such as oil at the low prices at which they were available previously. The developed nations will be living even more off the under-developed nations than they are at the present time. The world has changed. It requires new attitudes. The attitude that life was not meant to be easy; the attitude that we must cut public sector spending are exactly the wrong attitudes for this era. Only when we change back to a government which recognises that we must have the institution for medium and long term planning; that we must have national objectives worked out by consensus; that we must have a government which knows how to work with the institutional labour movement and with the private sector by consensus will we have a return to economic health. We will have these things only when we have a return to a Labor Government. 
I ask the Treasurer In view of the recent devaluation and the 9 subsequent revaluations and other changes in the Government's economic policies, have new estimates been made of the levels and rates of major economic variables for the current financial year to replace those published in the Budget? For example, is there still expected to be a growth in employment of 2 per cent over the year as a whole and is the rate of increase in the consumer price index still expected to be of the order of 12 percent? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. 
I shall do so in future. During an answer to a question today the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  asserted that there had been no attack on economic policies from me during this week, the first week of this parliamentary session. I want to draw to your attention,  Mr Speaker,  and to his attention that a no confidence motion was moved which he and his colleagues avoided by the subterfuge of an economic statement and refused to debate - 
I shall just round off by saying that I have also made challenges to the Treasurer in the media to debate economic policy with him, but he has avoided those challenges. 
-Did the Treasurer say on 22 November last that the underlying rate of inflation in Australia was no more than 10 per cent? Did he say in his IS February economic statement that the direct impact of devaluation would be likely to show up in our major price indices not in the December quarter but in the March and June quarters of this year? In view of these comments and the appalling Government induced 6 per cent December quarter consumer price index increase, what underlying rate of inflation does the Treasurer now expect not only at the end of this financial year but also for the whole of this financial year? 
-I give notice that on general business Thursday No. 7, I shall move: 
That a joint committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon the Australian Insurance Industry, with particular reference to- 
The establishment of public enterprise insurance facilities to compete with private insurance facilities in those Slates and Territories where such a choice does not now exist and to co-operate with the various State Government insurance organisations to achieve  inter alia  economies of scale and improved re-insurance facilities; 
The provision of house insurance cover at premiums comparable with those being offered by the Commonwealth Banking Corporation and the Defence Service Homes loans schemes; 
The provision of adequate national disaster insurance: and 
The need for comprehensive legislation on the supervision, regulation and control of the insurance industry in the light of recommendations of the Australian Law Reform Commission. 
-A further misleading Government ministerial statement, on this occasion again from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  when he said that the national accounts showed that Australia's growth was back to normal characterises one of the features of public life over the weekend since we last met in this place. The Fraser Government's credibility is going from bad to worse and the polls- I am referring in particular to the polls in the  National Times- at  showing just this. The misleading statements about the economy, to say nothing about misleading statements on other areas of our national affairs, are coming so thick and fast from Fraser Government Ministers that it is difficult to  choose which one to  highlight each week. It is only one week now since it was my duty to propose a matter of public importance about misleading statements by Government Ministers. Yet we already have some more statements to expose. 
The national accounts for the December quarter were published last Friday. The significant factor which any objective observer must notice about them is that real domestic product fell by 1.7 per cent in the December quarter. Allied to this, one notes that the growth for the half year to 3 1 December 1976 was only 0.7 per cent. In other words, in a financial year when the Fraser Government in its Budget papers declared its objective of a 4 per cent economic growth rate it has achieved only 0.7 per cent in the first 6 months. That is bad enough, but why are we then treated like fools with such statements as this one that I am highlighting from the Prime Minister himself and exposing? With the appalling fact of only a 0.7 per cent growth rate staring us in the face we are told that growth is back to normal. If I were not a respectful member of this Parliament and did not know that the word 'lies' is unparliamentary I would be very tempted to use just that word on this occasion, but of course I will not do so. I will say that it is an untruth that is being uttered and the Prime Minister ought to be thoroughly ashamed of himself when he insults us in this way by uttering untruths about the national accounts. 
To add to the insults or to add insult to injury or indeed to add to the lack of credibility of Government statements we also had a statement from the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on Friday to mark the occasion of the publication of these depressing and disturbing December quarter 1976 national accounts. This statement was full of some gems and I want to examine them in detail. I quote: 
The accounts indicated that the economy was moving in line with the Government's overall economic strategy. 
That is a quotation from the Treasurer's Press release at the time of the publication of the national accounts. If the Government's overall economic strategy is for economic stagnation, then that is a truthful statement, but the Government has not yet admitted that its strategy is to maintain stagnation in this country for all of 1977 as well as 1976 and as well as part of 1978 in order to time the turnaround for the next Federal election. Until Fraser Government Ministers admit that this is their strategy I am not going to accept that, misguided though their means are, their objective is a return to economic health. There is no way in the world that one can say credibly, as the Treasurer has attempted to say, that the December quarter national accounts indicate that the economy is moving towards economic health. 
I have not tied the wording of this discussion of a matter of public importance to the Treasurer's statement this week because he received his serve, namely the exposure of his statements or some of them, last week in the debate to which I earlier referred. Although the matter of public importance is tied in particular to what the Prime Minister had to say on this occasion it is only indicative of what is being said by Government Ministers generally. I continue with comments on the lack of credibility of the Treasurer's Press statement upon the issue by the Australian Bureau of Statistics of the national accounts for the December quarter. He said: . . . gross non-farm product had increased in real terms by 5.2 per cent over the year to the December quarter. 
He then sought to take some political credit from this. Two per cent of that improvement was in the March quarter last year. Is there any objective and truthful observer who would suggest that the March quarter last year was influenced by the present conservative Government? Of course, because of time lags, what was happening this time last year was directly influenced by Australian Labor Government policies. This highlights so much of what has taken place in the last IS months of our economic history. After an unprecedented world economic crisis in 1974 and continuing into 1975- something which happened not only in Australia but also in every comparable country- we had a slow but sure return to economic health taking place about IS months ago. Then this country was plunged by the Liberal and National Country Parties into a political crisis. In using the comparative figures related to the December quarter of 1975, these Fraser Government leaders are seeking to persuade us to forget that they are making comparisons with an economic quarter in which thenown abominable actions created a political and economic crisis. Does any objective and truthful person suggest that failing to pass the Hayden Budget in September and October 1975 did not affect the Australian economy? Of course it did. The conservatives are the guilty men of late 1975, as they are they guilty men today. Once the Australian Labor Government Budget; the Hayden Budget, was passed, there was a return to slow and steady recovery. This was reflected in the statistics for the first 6 months of 1976. All of that has been interrupted by Fraser Government policies. Australia is due for economic recovery. In spite of a short pause, virtually all of the rest of the world has been experiencing growth and slow economic recovery. 
Australia is a great trading nation. We should be locked into that recovery to a far greater extent than we have been. The reason why we have not been locked into that recovery is directly attributable to Liberal and National Country Party policies. The last Labor Government Budget was a good budget. It contained the correct mix between a restraint in the growth of government expenditure on the one hand because of the need to fund a deficit and the adverse effects of that funding on interest rates and on the money supply if insufficient funding took place, and the need, on the other hand, for adequate spending to create the demand to reduce unemployment. That delicate mix has been upset over the past 12 months by ham fisted, inept government actions. Fraser Government economic management has been woeful and grossly incompetent. There has been an unnecessary slashing of government spending, along with the introduction of Public Service staff ceilings. This has nothing to do with improved and efficient government administration. The Australian Labor Party supports that but it does not believe that greater efficiency can be obtained by broad brush measures such as slashing government spending across the top or by the introduction of staff ceilings. 
-An honourable member interjects and asks what the Labor Party would do. The Labor Government instituted the Coombs Royal Commission into Government Administration, which is directly responsible for recommendations on how to bring about greater government efficiency, rather than these ham fisted ways that this country is suffering at the present time. Government spending cuts have resulted in fewer people being employed in the public sector. There is more unemployment in the public sector. There is also more unemployment in the private sector because of loss of contracts that the private sector has with the Government sector. More than that, the slashing of government spending has meant a loss of consumer confidence. Added to that are the confrontations with wage and salary earners in national wage cases, the reductions in the real standard of living of millions of Australians and the worker bashing that has been going on. Those are the reasons for the shocking increases in seasonally adjusted unemployment. Those are the reasons for a lack of consumer confidence and the reasons why those who are lucky enough to be receiving incomes are saving rather than spending. Those are the reasons why economic recovery is not taking place in this country to the extent that it should. 
I mention again that the lack of confidence at home generated by the Fraser Government spilt over abroad. It resulted in the run on the Australian dollar. That resulted in the appalling decision to revalue which could have been avoided but which was not avoided. That decision added to our economic troubles. It is my bounden duty to point out these facts again and again. Only if we face the truth will the correct economic policies be formulated. To examine a set of quarterly national accounts such as the December 1976 quarterly accounts just published and to make the misleading statement which I have just quoted, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  did, is not to face the truth. It displays disturbing complacency. It means that we shall continue to wallow at the foggy bottom of the recessionary trough. These thoughts of mine are shared by objective observers outside this Parliament. I would like to read some quotations from editorials to show that this is not just a partisan political point that I am putting. Yesterday's  Australian Financial Review  editorial contained the following: 
The Australian economy stumbled during December quarter. Economic growth actually went into reverse. 
Later it stated: ... the direction in which the economy was moving during the December quarter is not an encouraging sign. 
It also stated: 
However, there was a distinct slowing down in all areas during December and while some of this is quite naturally a correction for the September quarter exuberance the extent of the slowdown must be causing a few anxious moments in Canberra. 
I wish it were causing anxious moments amongst Ministers, including the Prime Minister and the Treasurer, rather than that they should make misleading statements in an attempt to brush over what is a very poor performance recorded in the December national accounts. I add quotations from yesterday's  Canberra Times  in an editorial headed 'National Accounts ': 
The level of economic activity declined during the December quarter, according to the accounts. National output and national income actually shrank by 2 per cent, and the 5 per cent growth that occurred between December quarters, that the Treasurer made much of, was confined mainly to the first half of calendar 1976. 
This was the time when Labor Government policies were applying. The  Canberra Times  editorial continues:  ... the accounts provide little if any support for the Government's proposal to further cut its spending. Private demand, including investment despite its recent growth, remains weak; the full price effects of devaluation are still to be registered 
Further, the editorial states: 
The evidence is mounting that its concern with the Budget deficit is obsessive - 
This refers, of course, to the Government-  . . . that it could safely run a larger deficit if the money market was brought into line; that its monetary policy is becoming counter-productive; that unemployment is unnecessarily high. 
These are not my words. They are the words of objective editorial writers in national newspapers. Finally, the  Canberra Times  editorial states: 
The import of the criticism of the money market by a merchant banker in Canberra last week was that the Government could run a larger non-inflationary deficit if all sections of the market could be persuaded to hold more government securities. 
I interpose that that is something that the Labor Opposition has been advocating. The editorial continues: 
Only he argued that greater holdings were necessary to ensure the market's own long-term viability. The import of the remarks has yet to be widely recognised. In the meantime, the Opposition's policy of maintaining the level of government spending and the deficit, even of slightly enlarging them, looks increasingly plausible. 
I summarise: Economic growth is far from normal as the Prime Minister would have us believe. There is no justification for the complacency displayed by the Treasurer. It is no wonder that polls show that the credibility of Fraser Government Ministers is woeful. We need to face the facts that the slow but steady recovery from the world economic crisis, which was under way when the Liberal and National Country Parties usurped power, was halted by consecutive policies. Let us be thankful that United States President Carter and Japanese Prime Minister Fukuda, who are meeting in Washington today, have turned to a more expansionary path. Let us hope that as a result of the Opposition opposing the stupidity of present Fraser Government economic policies, the Australian Government will see the error of its ways and will adopt the modestly more expansionary economic policy which the Labor Party has been advocating. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Did the Government say at the Tripartite Indexation Conference on 23 September last year that its inflation target for the end of the financial year was a 7 per cent annual rate? Is the annual rate of inflation now likely to be 1 7 per cent at the end of the financial year, as stated by the Government in evidence to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the current national wage case? Does that mean that the effect of devaluation has been to raise the annual rate of inflation by 10 per cent? 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. In fact, I can go further and say that the Opposition supports the Bill. I remind the House that the Asian Development Bank makes a very useful contribution to increasing the resources available to developing countries in our region. I also remind the House that this Bill authorises an increased capital subscription to the Bank by our own nation as part of a scheme which roughly doubles the Bank's authorised capital stock. There will be no actual payment by the Australian Government in the current financial year in making this contribution to an increased capital stock, but payments in the next financial year will amount to about $8.65m. In the subsequent 3 financial years there will be payments, making the total about 10 per cent of the $US346.1m which Australia is obliged to pay under the agreement made in relation to the Asian Development Bank increase in capital stock. The balance of the $US346.1m over that 10 per cent which will be paid in in the 4 years will be on call. The Opposition welcomes this new arrangement, this new commitment by the Government, modest though it is. However, this frankly will do little to increase Australia's aid to the target level of 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  keeps reiterating what he describes as the Government's commitment to this aid target of 0.7 per cent of GDP but he does not give a date for the achievement of this target. The target, of course, is one laid down by the United Nations and is a target for all nations, not only Australia. But a target without a date is no target at all. 
This is simply another of the Government's propaganda exercises, this time to appease those humanitarian Australians who are quite rightly deeply concerned about the problem of international economic inequality. The ruse, however, is so transparent that all those people genuinely concerned about levels of aid will, I believe, see through it and will be strongly critical of the Government's persistent failure to set a definite aid target. The reason given for this failure does not make sense. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stated with regard to the target: 
Regrettably, present economic circumstances preclude our setting a date Tor its achievement. In the meantime, however, we are endeavouring to maintain our aid at the highest level consistent with economic and budgetary constraints. 
The Government's argument for its budgetary constraint is that increased government spending is inflationary. Honourable members will have heard me point out in this House and outside that government spending devoted to areas where there are unemployed men, women and other resources is not inflationary. 
Ignoring this argument, all aid is, by definition, sent overseas or should be sent overseas. This is acknowledged by the Government because it presents its deficit in 2 forms, a domestic deficit and an overseas deficit. Money sent overseas cannot possibly directly affect the level of demand in Australia and at present there is no balance of payment constraint either. So the Government is using its general argument for budgetary restraint quite improperly in the context of aid. I believe that, in seeking to appease those humanitarian people who so wisely understand the need for foreign aid, by talking about Australia's aid target without setting a date for that target, the Government is once again misleading the Australian people. Already this week I have had the duty of bringing up a matter of public importance concerning this Government's misleading of the Australian people, particularly in relation to the economy. I had the same task last week. Here there is another example of the deception that is going on. 
As usual, deception has serious consequences. This time the consequences of the deception are serious for the developing countries. Relatively wealthy Australia is denying to the developing countries resources which they could use effectively to increase income earning capacity and their capacity for self-reliant growth. We need not be supporters of this attitude only for humanitarian reasons. We can support this attitude for very good, self-seeking reasons. The more quickly the Asian nations around Australia build up their economies, the more quickly we will reach a stage where greater trade is developed between Australia and those countries. This greater trade will, of course, assist enormously in lifting the wealth of this country and the standard of living of the Australian people. It is for what one might call selfish personal reasons that one can support aid as well as for the humanitarian purpose of improving the lives of many millions who have a far lower standard of living than our own. 
Of course, some of Australia's aid is spent in Australia. In part, this is because a portion of our development assistance is used to pay the salaries of well qualified personnel who work in developing countries at the request of those countries. As well, some of the aid funds are used to purchase suitable equipment and supplies available in Australia and needed in the receiving countries. In both cases the flow back of funds is in the interests of both the recipient countries and Australia, the donor country. However, a portion of our so-called aid is not aid at all. For example, superannuation payments and payments for loss of salary to retrenched Australian public servants from Papua New Guinea are included in the Government's aid classification. This is inconsistent with the Government's agreement with the Papua New Guinea Government to exclude these termination payments and retirement benefits from aid to that country. Another part of our development assistance is less effective than it could be because it is, in effect, tied to purchases in Australia or payment of salaries to Australian personnel with skills which could be obtained elsewhere less expensively. 
The often repeated claim of the Minister for Foreign Affairs that Australia's aid is good quality needs some modification. Whilst he is right in asserting the importance of giving aid in grant form, rather than by loans, there are these other aspects of Australia's aid programs which reduce their real value to developing countries. Some of Australia's aid flows back to Australia and adds to domestic demand. Does this mean that the significance of the overseas deficit concept is reduced? It would be interesting to have some clarification from the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Viner)  on this point if he intends to enter this debate. I hope he does intend to speak in this debate because I would like to hear his views on the points that I have raised. If the Government is concerned about the effect of aid on domestic demand, it should simply improve the quality of aid by making it completely untied, entirely in the form of loans and aimed at increasing the purchases by recipient countries from other developing countries. Any argument that aid should be restrained because of its effect on domestic demand amounts to no more than an admission that our aid is rather less effective than it should be. 
It appears that this year the amount of aid provided will be underspent. The monthly financial statement issued early in March for the first 8 months of the financial year- the Niemeyer statement as it is still called- suggests that the 
Government will not spend even the limited resources it allocated for aid in the Budget. In the first 8 months of the year only 64 per cent of the budgeted figure had been spent rather than the 67 per cent which would have been spent if expenditure in this area had been proportional with the Budget estimate. This suggests that spending on overseas aid may be at least $15m less than the Government announced at the time of the Budget. Perhaps spending in this area has been actually cut. It will be interesting to see at the end of the financial year whether the Government has fulfilled the aid commitment it announced in the Budget. 
There is another example of the gap between the Government's professed concern and its actions relating to the integrated commodities program and the common fund proposals which were agreed to at the UNCTAD 4 meeting held in Nairobi last year. In his foreign policy statement last week the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the proposals for a new international economic order were one of the important global issues. I welcome that statement but I believe that the Minister's comments on these proposals were only platitudes. He offered nothing except bland generalisations and we want more than just those generalisations. There was nothing at all conclusive in his speech despite the importance of the integrated commodity program and common fund proposals to the developing countries. It appears that the conservative Australian Government which we are suffering at the present time may be moving away from the support it gave these proposals at the Nairobi conference. In answer to a recent question asked in the Senate the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Senator Cotton)  said: 
The Government remains to be convinced of the need for a common fund as an element of that program. 
He was referring to the integrated program on commodities-  or that an early decision on its establishment is necessary to ensure success of the program. 
Yet the proposals are eminently sensible and Australia should be supporting in principle the negotiations to establish a common fund and should be speaking in favour of the fund in international forums. We should also be giving an early indication of our willingness to contribute to the satisfactory common fund. At this stage we should be participating fully and effectively in discussions about the precise form of the fund. 
The aims of the common fund, as I know you will know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  are modest- to stabilise prices and to improve the reliability of supply of primary commodities. This is in the interests of both the producer and consumer countries, and Australia is in both categories. The integrated commodities program and the common fund proposals offer real hope for Third World countries which suffer from fluctuating commodity prices. Of course, if fluctuations of prices for commodities which Australia exports could be reduced this could be of considerable benefit to our own producers. The value of this scheme has apparently been perceived by  President  Carter and his advisers because they are reported to have agreed that the United States should adopt a more accommodating posture on the developing countries' proposals for the establishment of a common fund. Is this another area where our Australian Liberal and National Country Party Government will be left behind in the field of international affairs because of lack of imagination and rigidity? I hope not. At least in this Bill we see that the Government has got behind a great improvement in the matter of giving aid. 
I take this opportunity to draw attention to another way of giving aid, of supporting the new economic order, namely, through more active participation in the discussions on the common fund. I interpose to remind you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and the House of the fillip given to the discussions on the common fund by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries in their recent meeting, deciding to give an enormous contribution towards the common fund. This was lost in a lot of other news that came from that OPEC meeting because of the unfortunate increase in the price of oil that was announced at the same time. But at least we must allow that there was a silver lining to the cloud of that meeting when the OPEC countries gave such support to the common fund proposals. 
The failure of the Government to take international development seriously is symbolised by its decision to abolish the Australian Development Assistance Agency. But we will be debating this decision next week so I shall not discuss that now. Australia must take seriously the consequences of continuation of the appalling international inequalities of income. Of course, that is one of the points of this Bill. Before moving too far away from the common fund I think it proper that I should draw attention to a Press release for the Common Fund Campaign dated 18 March, only 5 days ago. The heading of the Press release reads: 'Economists Support New Trade Plan'. The Press release states: 
A group of 12 economists from 4 Australian universities have come out in support of a new trade scheme presently being negotiated in Geneva. 
The economists, which include  Dr H.  C. Coombs of the Australian National University, Professor A. M. Kerr of Murdoch University and Professor John Nevile of N.S.W. University, have signed a petition urging the Australian Government to support the present negotiations to establish a common fund for commodities being held in Geneva under the auspices of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). 
I could quote more from that Press release as it is relevant to this whole matter of giving aid to under-developed countries which is under discussion in this debate but I shall merely draw attention to how so many prominent people in Australia are behind the actions of any government in improving aid- not only the amount of aid but the form of aid- being given to underdeveloped countries which is so important for peace as well as economic security in our world. 
The Bill we are now debating makes a tiny contribution of the type required. It is sad that other decisions by the Government frankly have been inconsistent with this approach. It is interesting in this context to note that the Liberal and National Country Parties' joint platform for the last election included a proposal on foreign policy to attempt to tie even aid given through the Asian Development Bank to interests of this country. One advantage of multilateral aid such as that which we are giving in this Bill is supposed to be that it reduces the danger of manipulation by the donor country to its own advantage. 
I believe that the undertaking in the LiberalNational Country Parties platform was a mistake. I hope that the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  and the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  who are in the House and who may be following me in this debate will give an assurance that they will seek to have that part of the Liberal-National Country Parties' platform removed so that there is no undertaking in the Government Parties' platform to tie aid in this way given through the Asian Development Bank. It is important that this Bill does not so tie that aid. To that extent the Government is not following its platform. We welcome the fact that the Government is not following the platform of its Parties in this matter and that this money will be made available to the Asian Development Bank for this good purpose. I repeat that the Opposition supports the Bill. 
-The honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  is, of course, a loyal supporter of the Government but I am sorry that that prevents him from being more objective.  His  background as a university professor of economics leads one to believe that he should be objective, but he is not as objective as he ought to be in circumstances like this of grave economic uncertainty. The inadequacies and general bankruptcy of ideas in  Her  Majesty's most recent Speech to this Parliament, which we are debating today, has already been well described in this debate. It is also well known that saying this is no reflection on the Queen herself in the context of our constitutional monarchy. It is a reflection on the Fraser Liberal and National Country Party Government which was responsible for handing her this inadequate Speech to read. A couple of Government back benchers have moved a traditional motion or address thanking  Her  Majesty for the Speech from the throne and expressing pleasure at the presence of the Royal Family in this country. To this it is now my pleasing duty to move an amendment. I move: 
That the following words be added to the Address:  , but note that the Speech among other things- 
fails to outline the Government's program for economic management; 
thereby adds to the mounting uncertainty and concern in the community; 
accordingly leads to the belief that the Government's policies will be totally inadequate to contend with worsening inflation, post-war record unemployment, business stagnation and declining living standards for millions of Australians, and 
) neglects to outline details of social reforms which are essential to reduce inequalities and to overcome hardships being suffered by so many in need '. 
Now let me deal with some of these points which highlight the inadequacy of the Queen's Speech. As stated in the amendment, the Opposition deplores the fact that there was no information in the Speech about the course of economic management. The old strategy of the Fraser Government, namely, applying contractionary policies whatever the cost to employment, concentrating only on inflation, is in tatters. It died a death of a thousand knives with devaluation. That disastrous decision of 28 November, taken against the advice of the Treasury and presumably of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  taken sinisterly by a small coterie of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and a few of his closest National Country Party grazier colleagues, taken cynically in order to transfer resources from have-nots to havesfrom wage and salary earners and small businessmen to mining companies and a few of the larger graziers- spelt the end of the old misguided strategy. 
What is to take its place? We have not been informed. Certainly this Speech which we are debating, which is supposed to outline the Government's program, does not tell us. No wonder it is the Opposition's bounden duty to move this amendment which I have just moved and which will be seconded by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  It is vital that we force an end to this incompetent economic management. This ineptness is leading to enormous suffering in our community. Honourable members should think again of the psychological effects on those thousands of young people who cannot find jobs. They should think again of the misery in the homes of those thousands of older people who have been forced out of their employment, in some cases after twenty or thirty years of loyal service, and who now, because of their age, are wondering what the future has in store for them. 
Instead of real concern for these and so many other human problems, we have these incompetent managers displaying complacency. At a time when the December quarter 1976 national accounts show a 1.7 per cent decline in gross domestic product, we suffer a Prime Minister suggesting that, to quote him, growth rates arc back to normal'. At a time when unemployment is at least 100 000 greater than the Commonwealth Employment Service registered figure of 347 000, when it is at the greatest rate for 40 years- since the War- Government Ministers are saying that unemployment is a myth. At a time when the inflation rate for one quarter is 6 per cent- I refer to the December quarter 1976- the Treasurer is purveying the untruth that the underlying rate of inflation is reducing. It is no wonder that the credibility rating of Government Ministers, in particular the Treasurer, in the most recent polls- I refer to polls published in the  National Times-  is woeful and is the worst on record for Ministers. I wish to dwell on the subject of inflation a little longer. The honourable member for Berowra spoke about it. The reduction of inflation was to be the main aim of these inept economic managers. Let us examine how inconsistent they have been in the policies pursued for the attainment of the Government's aim of reducing inflation. 
Firstly, the Government terminated the need for companies to pay their tax obligations quarterly. This meant that the saved funds were used by many of those companies to speculate on our dollar. This is one of the more immediate causes of devaluation and the enormous price increases which went with that disastrous decision. Secondly, the Government meddled with Medibank. In the December quarter of 1976 alone that meant a 3.2 per cent increase in the consumer price index. This is another way in which the Fraser Government has caused worsening inflation and is at a time when the Government said its main aim was to reduce inflation. Thirdly, the policy of so-called 'new federalism ', which is just another way of describing the mutilating of the national public sector, has meant that the States have had to fulfil many of the functions in delivering essential services to the people previously administered at the national level. 
What is important in this context is that the States have had to pick up the charges for those functions and pass them on to the people through State Budgets. So it is Fraser Government policies which have forced the States to put up their charges. To a great extent this is responsible for the enormous 6 per cent increase in the consumer price index for the December quarter of 1976. Fourthly, the Government has tampered with the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission. The honourable member for Berowra mentioned proudly that the Government had not mutilated the Prices Justification Tribunal in spite of the promises in its election program to do so. But there is nothing to be proud about with regard to what this Government has done to the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission. It has watered down the effectiveness of these bodies. Both statutory corporations have important responsibilities in the restraint of prices. Yet their task is made more difficult by the policies of the Liberal-National Country Parties. 
How dinkum is the Government about reducing the rate of inflation? It is happy to undertake worker bashing' with a view to influencing the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in national wage cases to reduce the living standards of millions of Australian wage and salary earners. It is happy to clamp on strict bank lending curbs and increase interest rates which penalise the smaller business men of our community. But when it comes to supporting institutions which apply restraints to large companies, the Government does the opposite. It waters down the effectiveness of our public institutions, the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission, charged with these tasks. We need go no further than the works of that great American, John Kenneth Galbraith, to learn of the sinister and detrimental influences of large corporations on our whole pricing structure. These corporations are so often in a monopolistic position and can claim whatever prices they want. I shall return to this theme on another occasion. What is important now is that the Australian people should realise that we have a government which does not apply itself to this problem. It does not exhort restraint on the part of those who have power over prices. It does not ask higher income earners- professional people- to limit their incomes. Instead, we have a conservative government which chooses confrontation with unions, with worker bashing and with doing its best to reduce the living standards of millions of Australian wage and salary earners. It is no wonder that the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  has seen fit today to resign his membership of the Liberal Party of Australia. However, I will admit that much of what he had to say with regard to his resignation was destructive rather than constructive. These are 4 ways in which the Fraser Government has caused an increase in inflation since it came to power 1 6 months ago. It has terminated the quarterly company tax payments, meddled with Medibank, forced the States to increase their charges and weakened the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trades Practices Commission. 
The fifth policy of the Government knocks all other policies into a cocked hat. I refer to devaluation. Devaluation adds enormously to our cost structure. No one is now thinking in terms of single digit inflation this year. In fact, we can only contemplate a 1 5 per cent to 1 7 per cent inflation rate, not only for this financial year but also for this calendar year. The decision is a disaster and is one which could have been avoided. I believe that the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon)  explained in the Government Party room yesterday that, of course, a sizable loan should have been negotiated to stave off the speculation about devaluation. The amount of loan required for this purpose was not at all inconsistent with the loans being negotiated in Europe by, for instance, Canada. Canada is only one nation that has negotiated such loans in the Euro dollar market. Australia should have negotiated a similar loan. Devaluation, more than anything else, is responsible for the Government's economic strategy being in tatters. It makes nonsense of the Treasurer's untruthful claims that the underlying rate of inflation is falling. Yet it was the aim of the Government to bring down the rate of inflation. I believe I can show that by its own misguided policies the Government has added to the inflation rate. 
What of the future? This Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen which we are now debating highlights the bankruptcy of the Government's present policies. While this vacuum continues, we can only speculate, as the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  did in this debate yesterday, that there will be an ever increasing lack of confidence at home which will again spill over abroad. If this happens, there is the danger that these conservatives who are in an ideological bind because of their misrepresentations over the Khemlani affair will fail to negotiate a loan to stave off speculation against our currency and once again Australia will be forced to devalue- or the Government will take the decision to devalue- with all the adverse consequences which result from that. What is the alternative? This has been outlined often by the Labor Opposition and is receiving increased support in the community, as is witnessed by some of the editorials in national newspapers. We must have a more expansionary policy. We must attack unemployment as well as inflation and we must unlock the door to encourage the return of consumer confidence, we must spend on manpower policies to train and retrain people with the necessary skills. We must make grants to the States so that they can bring alive the plans already drawn up for building and construction works in those areas where there are unemployed men, women and other resources. We must revive local initiative programs and allow local government bodies and other nonprofitmaking organisations to improve the quality of life in their districts by using the services of those who would otherwise be on the dole. We must selectively cut indirect taxes to stimulate that consumer confidence. 
This total package would not be inflationary. It is designed in this modest way so that it will not worsen the inflationary situation. An increase in the money supply of 2 per cent would make $800m available and would save Australia from the threatened credit squeeze which is in danger of overtaking us. I believe that we can raise up to $500m extra from our capital market in a sensible funding program without increasing interest rates. This idea is being pursued right now in an interesting public debate about the liquidity of building societies and other fringe banking institutions. There is room for these fringe banking institutions to have a far larger holding of public securities. We must be realistic and recognise that the Fraser Government policy of an investment led recovery is a failure. New mining ventures do not get under way because of the investment allowance. They are commenced if and when there is a market for their product. Some investment allowances and other depreciation claims are more extravagant than they need be. When it is a matter of options, those who derive benefit from them could be far better off if the market were stimulated. With an increased level of economic activity will come more profits and lower unit costs. There is no need to make the transfers from wages that are being made now. It is the job of governments now to stimulate that activity. The modest, selectively stimulatory policies which the Labor Party is advocating have been adopted by United 
States President Carter and Japanese Prime Minister Fukuda. They should be adopted here. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting for the lunch break I moved an amendment to the Address-in-Reply to the Speech delivered by  Her  Majesty to this Parliament. That amendment will be seconded shortly, I hope, by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  Before the suspension of the sitting I was completing my speech in which I had pointed out that the Speech from the throne showed a bankruptcy of policies. It did so by drawing attention to the way in which devaluation in particular had meant that the Government's economic strategy was left in tatters. I had pointed out that until devaluation at least we knew there was a focusing of attention on inflation as a problem but that in spite of that focus the Government's policies had had the effect of increasing inflation. I drew attention not only to the termination of the quarterly company tax payments but also to the Medibank meddling which had caused a 3.2 per cent increase in the consumer price index for the December quarter alone. I mentioned how the so-called new federalism was causing the States to take on more responsibility in delivering services to the people and how it was causing increases in State charges. All of these policies had caused increases in prices- increases directly attributable to government action in spite of the Government's declared aim of bringing down the rate of inflation. 
I had also outlined the alternative strategy which was being put forward by the Australian Labor Party Opposition- modest, stimulatory increased spending in specific areas, particularly in areas of manpower policy and particularly in the area of grants to the States in order to allow the States to get on with construction and building programs in those centres where these programs were ready to go, where we knew the resources could be used, where there were unemployed men and women, and where there were building materials, to name just one resource additional to that of people. I pointed out also how we believe that in this time of an unprecedented rate of unemployment- the worst for 40 years- it would be advisable to get off the ground local initiative programs which were better administered than was the regional employment development scheme, which was introduced in a hurry, and which would employ people who are now receiving the dole. I drew attention to how all of this modest programming would not in any way increase inflation, because it is seen in a package not only of increasing the money supply but also increasing the sale of government bonds and substituting these programs for the out of date ones being administered by the Government. I refer to the Government's policies of extravagant and expensive investment allowances which should be scrapped in favour of reducing indirect taxes in an effort to stimulate consumer spending. From an increase in the level of economic activity which would result from the programs that I have outlined as an alternative strategy would also come more profits, which are needed for that greater investment which in turn is needed to bring us back to an era of full employment. Also would come lower unit costs. It is the job of the Government to stimulate that activity and to bring it about. 
In conclusion, I make the claim that the modest, selectively stimulatory policies which we in the Australian Labor Party have been advocating and are still advocating have been adopted by United States  President  Carter and Japanese Prime Minister Fukuda. Those policies should be adopted in this country. Instead we suffer from Ministers of the Fraser Government one misleading statement after another displaying enormous and damaging complacency. That must end; new policies must be adopted. That does not apply only to economic management, although I have spent the time available to me in dealing with economic management. It applies also to social welfare policies. No reforms are being instituted by the conservatives, in spite of the words that they are in  Her  Majesty's Speech. There is no attack on inequalities. There is no attempt to reduce the inequalities that exist in our society. There are no promised programs to overcome the hardships being suffered by so many in need in our community. The amendment deserves the support of this House. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report to the effect that on his last visit to Washington in July 1 976 he found that Australia's views on global affairs were not sought by Washington nor welcomed if they were offered. 
On that occasion did he raise the question of China in his talks with Secretary of State Henry Kissinger suggesting that the United States of America had been late in coming to terms with the Chinese. 
If so, did this bring a sharp response from  Dr Kissinger,  the message being that the United States did not want to be lectured to by Australia on how to conduct big power relations. 
If the position is as stated, does he expect to fare any better on his next visit to the United States when he will be communicating with a government far less conservative in its ideology than his own or the previous United States ' one. 
-No advocate however eloquent, can be convincing if he has a bad case. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  has done his best with a thoroughly bad case. I repeat that it is a thoroughly bad case, as I shall now show. The Australian Development Assistance Agency (Repeal) Bill should never have been brought into this Parliament. It gives effect to a retrograde step which displays the short-sighted, counterproductive attitude of the Fraser Government to matters of Government spending. The Australian Development Assistance Agency was established by the Australian Labor Government following a recommendation from the subcommittee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs which had heard evidence in 1971. 1 believe this sub-committee had a Liberal-National Country Party majority and it was made up therefore of people who made a special study of the matter of delivering aid. It was a committee which did not divide on party grounds in any way in coming to the very wise decision to set up this separate agency. This initiative was designed to bring all the aid dispensing activities of the 
Australian Government under one administrative unit. It had the potential for bringing a new dimension of professionalism to Australia's aid program. The Agency's premature demise has meant that its promise has never really been fulfilled. It existed for all too short a time to demonstrate its real worth. 
When the Labor Government introduced legislation setting up the Agency it met with no opposition from the Liberal and National Country parties. The present Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  then said: 
The Opposition supports the Australian Development Assistance Agency Bill. 
The present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and sometime Minister for Foreign Affairs, as he hopes, said that the then National Country Party Opposition had 'reservations about the character of the proposed Agency'. He went on: 
. we do not oppose its establishment and indeed can see some benefits following from its operation. 
Less than 2 years later the Liberal and National Country parties have decided that there is not a place for the Agency. Six weeks after coming to government they abolished it. It is interesting to note that the decision to abolish the agency was taken by the Economic Sub-Committee of Cabinet, a group of which the Minister for Foreign Affairs was not even a member. 

 Mr Young Stop interjecting. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! I remind the honourable member for Port Adelaide that the Chair will take whatever action is necessary. 
I have decided to respond to the Minister so that his remarks will be recorded in  Hansard.  I wondered whether I would let them go by as a mere interjection which did not deserve to be recorded in  Hansard  but I am glad to hear that he was present. It makes him even more culpable for being the front man and allowing this to happen when so few years ago he was responsible for his Party's supporting the setting up of this agency. I thought that there might have been an excuse for him in his not being present at the Economic Sub-Committee meeting. As I have said, he is not a member of that sub-committee but now we have it on record that he attended the sub-committee and we can say that he is as culpable as everybody else for this retrograde step having been taken. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I will not now take any notice of interjections, as I see that you wish this. The rationale put forward by the Government for this decision was that it was part of its drive to achieve greater efficiency and economy in the Public Service by minimising the number of commissions and statutory bodies. In reality, of course, motives of efficiency had nothing to do with the decision. It was simply part of the Government's ideological obsession with cutting back the Public Service. I am sorry to find that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is part of this group which has this ideological obsession. Any concern for efficiency was sacrificed to the preoccupation with deficit cutting. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs has gone to considerable pains to claim that the new bureau operating within the Department is performing all the functions previously carried out by the agency. It is difficult to imagine how that claim can in any way be substantiated. The former aid agency was subjected to particularly savage staff cutbacks when it was subsumed into the Department of Foreign Affairs. A case can be made out for its being one of the sections of the Public Service hardest hit by these cutbacks. The Canberra Branch Secretary of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association,  Mr Geoff  Blunden, pointed out last December that 'government staff cuts were preventing a truly effective Australian aid program for developing countries'. He was speaking as a representative of those who work in this field. Despite assurances to the contrary from the Government, it seems obvious that Australia's aid budget for  1976-77  will be underspent due to administrative constrictions cause by staff shortages. 
Australia's aid performance under the Australian Labor Party Government lifted us to a highly coveted fifth place on the international aid ladder during the calendar year  1975.  The  Sydney Morning Herald  of  23  December carried a report which described the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development economists as believing that our performance during  1976  under this Liberal-National Country Party Government will drop us to about tenth, eleventh or even twelfth place on that ladder. It is easy to see overseas countries beginning to question the sincerity of this Government's commitment to the United Nations' target of  0.7  per cent of gross national product for aid donors. 
In deciding to abolish the aid agency the Government has had scant regard for the attitudes of our aid recipients. The decision to set up the aid agency was warmly welcomed by Papua New Guinea, for example, yet despite the great emphasis Australia places on relations with Papua New Guinea the agency was abolished without any consultation to ascertain whether our chief aid recipient would be seriously disadvantaged. The decline of the agency into a bureau and its placement under the authority of the Department of Foreign Affairs will create difficulties in differentiating aid policy from foreign policy. We would be deluding ourselves if we thought that at all times our foreign policy was genuinely aimed at selflessly promoting world development. On the other hand, aid should be seen to be doing just this. It should not be administered in such a way that it can be suspected of being an instrument of foreign policy. I see no value in placing the aid agency under the control of the Department of Foreign Affairs and subjecting our diplomats to the temptation of using aid for purposes for which it was not intended. Those non-government bodies and the general public interested in evaluating how decisions regarding aid are made will not have the same access to information as they previously enjoyed now that the agency is within the Department of Foreign Affairs. It is unlikely that the very secretive Department of Foreign Affairs will make an exception to its necessarily secretive general rules of operation with regard to the activities of the aid bureau. 
Now let me turn to some aspects of aid generally because the debate has been widened to cover them. One of the aspects of our current aid program that has received little attention has been the impact of devaluation. To the extent that our aid is given to donor countries to spend as they determine, devaluation reduced our effective aid by  17W  per cent. The Government has made no recognition of this fact and has certainly not moved to keep the real value of overseas aid intact. The lack of concern which this Government has had for our overseas economic relations is summed up in the statement made by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  announcing the devaluation. The international ramifications of the decision were conspicuously ignored. No matter how unimportant the impact of devaluation on our neighbours may have been to this Government, others did not see it in quite the same fashion. Influential journals such as the  Economist  and the  Far East Economic Review  condemned the decision to devalue in no uncertain terms. Devaluation has more than the obvious effect of reducing real aid levels to our aid recipients. Devaluation can be regarded in some senses as an attempt to offload some of our problems on to our trading partners, including those underdeveloped countries with which we trade. With the exception of Brazil, Egypt and Hong Kong, Australia already has a favourable balance of trade with all our developing country trading partners. To the extent that balance of trade motives for devaluation are successful, these imbalances are exacerbated. 
The decision to devalue thus must be regarded as the imposition by Australia of a burden on the economies of the developing countries, yet the Government fails to recognise this and continues to pay hollow lip service to Australia's concern for underdeveloped countries and for the establishment of a new international economic order. We heard the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  say this. I make this point because I believe that devaluation was a disastrous decision from the point of view of the management of our domestic economy. So the adverse effects on our neighbours increase the error of the decision to devalue. Many questions remain unanswered about the present Government's attitude to overseas aid and about its attitudes to all aspects of international economic relations. In the foreign policy statement of the Liberal and National Country Parties prior to the 1975 election it was stated that a Liberal-National Country Party government 'would encourage direct investment by the Australian private sector preferably on a joint venture basis' as part of its aid program. 
During an address at Swinburne College last November the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: 
The Government is actively promoting involvement of the private sector in the aid program. 
The Government is yet to spell out the practical implications of this statement of intent. It has been expressed in many circles that maintaining the efficiency and effectiveness of the aid program will be subjugated to the Government's desire to dismantle the public sector. The Minister for Foreign Affairs announced during his Swinburne College address that the Government was looking at using some aid money for loans to developing countries as trade credits. This appears to run counter to the views of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who has somewhat disparaged the use of tied loans as a form of aid. He pointed to the type of aid Australia had given to Papua New Guinea, which has not increased that country's debt burden, as being closest to the ideal. The Fraser Government has not yet clarified its attitude to that question. 
While I am speaking on the subject of aid in general and especially its implications for the Australian domestic market, I should like briefly to make reference to the comments made on Tuesday of this week by the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson).  When closing the debate on the Asian Bank (Additional Subscriptions) Bill the Minister inferred that I had suggested that overseas aid expenditure should not be subject to constraints within the Budget context as it does not add to the domestic Budget deficit and does not affect domestic liquidity. He then went on to demonstrate that approximately 75 per cent of Australia's overseas aid involved direct demands on Australia's resources and thus should be treated as any other Budget item is treated. I am well aware of that reasoning and of the fact that Treasury is pushing that argument very hard. However, the Minister missed the central point of what I said in that debate. The point in brief is that if our overseas aid is directly influencing domestic demand then that aid is rather less effective than it would be. We are to a large extent tying our aid. The very fact that it is said that it has that effect on the domestic economy means that it is very much tied to our domestic economy. The alleged fact that 75 per cent of Australia's overseas aid places direct demands on domestic resources is not an argument for cutting aid; it is rather an argument for changing the form of our aid. In an editorial in the 2 1 March issue of the  Canberra Times  entitled 'Robbing the Poor Box' that was recognised. The editorial said that requiring aid funds to be spent in Australia 'imposes on the recipients high costs that diminish the value of the aid received '. 
The foregoing argument is not meant to deny the fact that overseas aid does ultimately mean a transfer of resources from Australia to the recipient country. However, it need not be done in a way which subjects that transfer to the vagaries of the concern of government for the domestic impact of government expenditure levels. Overseas aid given through a completely untied process affects the level of our overseas reserves, but neither the Government nor the Treasury has given any indication that it is concerned on that score. If either of them is concerned then the reasons for that concern should be spelt out. I am aware of the impact of aid on the overall deficit and the need to fund that deficit. But that argument does not impress me greatly at the present time either, because I believe that, with more careful management, a greater value of government loans can be sold at existing interest rates. 
Anyhow, the money supply growth should be at a greater rate than it is at present if we are to avoid a damaging credit squeeze. 
Another outstanding issue relating to the Australian Development Assistance Agency concerns the report of  Dr Helen  Hughes on development research in Australia. The report was commissioned by the ADAA to examine the general field of development studies in Australia and to recommend ways in which the Government and the Agency, as it was at that time, might further promote that field through several alternatives, including the possible establishment of an institute of development studies. The report was completed and presented to the Government on 3 1 December 1 975. On 7 September last year the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in answer to a question that the Government had still not made decisions about the recommendations made by  Dr Hughes.  Such decisions are long overdue and the present would be an appropriate time for them to be made. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is not in the House, but I hope that the officials who are here will draw that matter to his attention. 
Although Australia has given substantial and increasing amounts of aid to developing countries, the attention given to the intellectual activity of research and teaching about development has been relatively slight. Also, Australians have generally been isolated from the debate about the nature of development. There has been little discussion within Australia about the problems of aiming simply for economic growth without regard to the effects on, for example, income distribution and the nature of society within developing countries. There has been even less research in regard to the interface between Australia and the developing world. Study is needed of the impact of the policies of industrialised countries on developing countries as well as on the problems of the developing countries themselves. I hope that the Minister will comment on  Dr Hughes'  report when he closes the debate on this Bill. 
I apologise to the Government Whip. I must say that because of interjections from the Minister I have spoken for longer than I had intended. I conclude by saying that there is an unfortunate tendency amongst many people to regard aid as a strictly one way process in which the donors make the sacrifices and the recipients receive all the benefits. Far too little attention is focused on the potential benefits for the donors. Aid in its very best form will alleviate the poverty and suffering in underdeveloped countries through the process of promoting economic and political stability. All countries in a region benefit when their neighbours enjoy that stability. 
The economic and political stability of the South East Asian region is of vital concern to Australia. Our national security will be enhanced as the economies of our Asian neighbours are strengthened and the processes of government in those countries achieve maturity. To the extent that our aid can help to achieve those aims, it becomes as effective a defender of our security as of some of our defence spending. As one of the few countries in this region capable of mounting a substantial aid effort, Australia has a special responsibility towards South East Asia. But that responsibility should also be recognised as an opportunity- an opportunity to promote the regional stability which is in Australia's own long term interests. This Bill, which puts an end to the aid agency, certainly does not move in that spirit. The Opposition opposes in every way this Bill which repeals the aid agency. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Dobie)  adjourned. 
-The hypocrisy of this matter of public importance was illustrated in the speech of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly).  To start off with he said that the subject was above politics. He then talked utter rubbish about the Opposition delaying the discussion. It was utter rubbish because there is no business to talk of on the notice paper. There is no way that the Opposition could delay this discussion even if it wanted tq do so. In fact we do not want to delay the discussion. We want to debate it, although we would have preferred to debate the motion that I submitted to the  Speaker  on behalf of the Opposition. 
When this nation learns in clear and coherent terms from the Fraser Government the implications of a so-called prices and wages freeze and more details concerning that freeze, and if the people judge those economic policies to be fair, effective and workable, there will be active support from the whole community as called for in this matter of public importance. As it is, the Fraser Government's anti-inflationary policies have been incoherent, erratic and unfair and are not a promising background for the consensus which is so badly needed. The Opposition lodged a matter of public importance in similar terms for debate today. On my own behalf and on behalf of my colleagues I lodge an objection in the strongest possible terms to the virtually unprecedented decision to choose and accept a pious proposed discussion, such as the one we have before us, from a Government back bencher when there was a matter of public importance of more substance on this subject put forward by an Opposition front bencher. Frankly, I consider it a singular piece of political partisanship by an official office-holder that this has happened. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
1 ) Does the Government have targets for any of the various types of income distribution such as income shares between (a) wages and profits, (b) sectors of the economy and (c) the various levels of personal income. If so, what are they. 
What is the impact of the Government's macroeconomic policies expected to be on each of these types of income distribution. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
By what percentage will devaluation have increased the annual rate of growth of the Consumer Price Index by the end of 1977 when estimates are made on the same basis as were used in the evidence presented to the Arbitration Commission in the current wage indexation case. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports that the South African Council of Churches and Christian Institute Offices in Johannesburg have been raided by the South African Government. 
If so, did the Australian Council of Churches express alarm at the reported raid during which security police allegedly sealed the building and after an 8 hour search left with boxes of files. 
Can he say whether Bishop Graham Delbridge, President of the Australian Council of Churches, said, among other things, in a statement issued in December 1 976, that all people and all nations must work harder to bring an end to the inhuman and abhorrent apartheid system, and did the Council ask him to increase government pressure on South Africa to end apartheid. 
Has the Government any additional information about this raid and other brutal actions in the name of apart.heid in South Africa. 
Has the Government taken any further action to show its abhorrence. 
-The Opposition is not opposing these Bills. It supports them as being all right as far as they go. The Bills deal with the regulation of the insurance industry. Before addressing myself to the specifics of the Bill I will refer to a number of general issues concerning the supervision of the insurance industry. After the Labor Party came to power in 1972 it established a comprehensive system of supervision of general insurance through the Insurance Act 1973. The necessity for such supervision had been evident for a long time. Frankly, previous Liberal and National Counry Party governments- let us face it- because of their conservative nature and philosophy, had virtually ignored that need. It was left to a Labor government to enact the necessary legislation. The previous governments obviously had felt that the industry could regulate itself, a concept which too rarely works out in practice, however much we would like it to do so. A graphic indication of the inability of the industry to apply any sort of self-regulation which could protect policy holders in the way that we would want them protected occurred in the period between July 1970 and March 1973. In this time provisional liquidators of some 14 insurance companies were appointed. These companies had estimated assets and liabilities of many millions of dollars. In the period between March 1973 and June 1976 a further S companies were placed in the hands of liquidators. The collapse of all these companies meant severe hardship for many thousands of people. 
The financial loss and the mental anguish these people suffered must, I believe, be laid at the feet of those who were tardy in bringing legislation concerning insurance up to date. Those people, of course, are the LiberalNational Country Party governments who governed this country for those years until 1972. It was not as if collapses of insurance companies were a completely unheard of thing. Overseas experience, particularly in the United Kingdom, amply demonstrated the necessity for continual monitoring of laws and regulations applying to the insurance industry. I must here pay tribute to my colleague, the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  another South Australian Labor member, for his persistent actions in drawing to the attention of governments and, indeed, to the attention of this House, all the hardships being caused by the collapse of certain insurance companies. He has done the nation a service in this speciality of his. It is to be hoped that in the future conservative governments, such as the one we have now, will have learnt from the past and will recognise this necessity for more than just self-regulation if people are to be secure from hardships caused by failures. The Opposition welcomes the fact that the present Government has seen fit to continue Labor initiatives in the supervising of the insurance industry, as witnessed in these Bills. I refer, of course, to the changes to the Insurance Act rather than the Life Insurance Act, which has been in operation since 1945. 
This attitude is a welcome recognition that market forces do not always work in everyone's best interests. It is the proper role of governments to intervene, for instance, where regulations are required, for protection of policy holders. I might say, however, that given the Government's recent attempts at managing-perhaps mismanaging is the more correct word- the economy through a number of  ad hoc,  regulatory and interventionist measures, the free enterprise business community might be forgiven for wondering whatever happened to the Liberal Party's commitment to the market. I am, of course, referring to the interventionism of the so-called wage and price freeze which is before us at the present time, particularly now that it is compulsory and no longer voluntary in nature. This is hardly a natural outcome for proponents of the free market economy, but I will return to insurance. 
The 1973 Insurance Act was, of course, only a start. Much still needs to be done. Constant monitoring is essential in the fields of both general and life insurance. I was pleased to see that the Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  recognised this in his second reading speech to the Life Insurance Amendment Bill. He said: 
The Government views the current set of proposed amendments to the Life Insurance Act as a forerunner to a much wider review to determine what kind of supervisory legislation is best suited to Australia's life insurance in the future. 
Those words I believe could equally apply to general insurance. The Australian Labor Party has of course recognised the need for a wide review of all aspects of the insurance industry and has taken steps to provide the Government with an ideal forum for such a review. We have placed on the notice paper for a general business day a notice of motion to set up committees of this Parliament to study both the life and general insurance industries separately. 
It is long overdue, as the honourable member for Hawker said. I commend the proposal to the Government. The Government should facilitate the setting up of those committees. Many aspects of the insurance industry in general could profitably be subjected to study. These include such things as the criteria to be fulfilled by firms wishing to enter the industry, the application of the restrictive practices legislation to the insurance industry, the extent of foreign ownership and its implications for the domestic economy, general management efficiency and increased means of protection for policy holders. Insurance policy holders appear to be a group of consumers who have received little attention in attempts to frame consumer protection legislation. For example, methods of selling insurance often have been called into question. The United Kingdom has legislation which provides for the regulation of insurance advertising. Hopefully the parliamentary committees proposed by the Opposition to which I have just referred will be able to study these and other aspects of insurance and assurance in great detail. 
I now turn my attention to the specific measures included in the 2 Bills currently before the House. The Life Insurance Amendment Bill 1 977 is to amend the Life Insurance Act of 1 945, which is the Act under which Australia's life insurance industry operates. As the Minister pointed out in his second reading speech, this Act has been singularly successful in preventing failures among life insurance companies. The present Bill contains some 39 clauses, many of a technical and complex nature. As I have said, the Opposition is supporting this Bill as it contains a number of provisions necessary for the updating of the 1945 Act. However, there are a number of clauses about which we have minor reservations, and I want to deal with these. Clauses 6 and 7 of the Bill deal with the rights of life insurance companies to carry on business that is not life insurance. As the existing legislation stands the Life Insurance Commissioner does not have the authority to scrutinise or to examine the noninsurance activities of life insurance companies, except when an initial application for registration is made. 
This Bill inserts proposed new section 16a into the original Act. This proposed new section will require life insurance companies to seek the approval of the Commissioner before carrying on non life insurance business. Proposed new section 16a (2) will instruct the Commissioner to grant approval unless the new business concerned is likely to 'prejudice the interests of persons who are or become the owners of policies issued by the company'. This is a welcome move in the direction of protecting the rights of policy holders. In the present Act section 39 (2) stipulates that assets held within statutory funds that life insurance companies are required to establish under the Act cannot be invested 'directly or indirectly in any share or interest in any company or undertaking carrying on life insurance business in Australia or elsewhere' without the courts' approval. Clause 10 of the amending Bill omits that section and substitutes another. 
The new section proposed to be substituted will allow life insurance companies to invest assets of statutory funds in other companies engaging directly or indirectly in life insurance without the Commissioner's approval provided the share component of the investment is 10 per cent or less of the recipient company's paid-up capital and that the total investment is 10 per cent or less of the value of the assets of the recipient company. I am a little concerned at the extent of the relaxation of this provision, although I understand the Minister's point that because of the wide portfolio of investments held by all life insurance companies the original section was not practical. Perhaps the new safeguards which, as the Minister put it, 'will enable the Life Insurance Commissioner to oversight certain investment outlets' will prevent any problems of the type which section 39 (2) was designed to overcome. It would be appreciated if the Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Viner),  who is at the table, in his reply could give us more details about the safeguards and perhaps indicate what are the 'certain investment outlets' which the Commissioner will oversee. 
The general investment policies of life insurance companies are of great importance to the economy as a whole as well as to the policy holders of individual companies. At 31 December the statutory funds of life insurance companies in Australia had total assets of almost $8.8 billion. Their investments totalled $5.1 billion and in 1975 there was an increase of $367m in the value of investments. It is in the interests of all sections of the economy that these large amounts of capital be invested in the best possible manner. The interests of the community as well as the policy holders must be borne in mind. Clause 36 of the Bill has the effect of allowing the fourth schedule of the Act to be altered by regulation. The fourth schedule of the Act is concerned with, among other things, the valuation of liabilities and consequently the value of dividends and bonuses paid from statutory funds. The reason given by the Minister for this change is the necessity to allow greater flexibility in periods of changing interest rates. The argument obviously is that it is impractical to make many legislative changes simply to modify numbers. Once again I appreciate the problem involved. However, I am concerned at a general tendency of the Government to use regulation and not legislation to effect change. I draw attention to the editorial of 4 January 1977 of the  Australian Financial Review  which highlighted this characteristic of the Fraser Government. The editorial states: 
It - 
That is in this case the Parliament-  is the only institution we have capable of acting as some check upon an arrogant Executive or a bumptious administration. It is being treated with contempt by both. 
That is, the executive and the administration. Of course the danger on the other side of the coin is that if the Parliament is inundated with legislation, members- remembering the inadequate staff and other facilities we have in this placewill have insufficient time to study carefully any legislation. Indeed, still on that other side of the com, we have to take into account that the vital changes necessitated by raging inflation may not be put through at all, at enormous inconvenience to the community, if we are waiting for legislation rather than regulation. A middle course may be to limit changes made by regulation as much as possible and have changes which are made in this way subject to study by a committee of the House. The Senate has a Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. Perhaps it is time this House had a similar committee to study regulations. 
With regard to the specific use of regulation powers envisaged in this Bill before us, the Opposition requests details of what the Minister sees as the criteria or indices for valuation changes which would be effected. Many other changes are made by this Bill but in general they are changes consistent with the evolution of insurance practice. I believe that there is no need for me to make any further comments at this stage on the details of the Life Insurance Amendment Bill. 
The other of the 2 Bills in this cognate debate is the Insurance Amendment Bill 1977. The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Insurance Act 1973, the significance and history of which I outlined earlier. Most of the changes to the 1973 Act contained in this Bill arise as a result of the experience gained by the Insurance Commissioner in administering the 1973 Act. Clauses 5, 6 and 9 of the Bill relate to the Insurance Commissioner. Clause 5 brings the Commissioner's salary within the determination of the Remuneration Tribunal. This is in keeping with salary determinations for other statutory officers. Clause 9 removes final control over the termination of the Commissioner's appointment for the Parliament. At present, if the Commissioner becomes bankrupt or engages in paid outside employment, or takes leave without the approval of the Treasurer, the Governor-General is required to declare by notice in the  Gazette  that the Commissioner's office is vacant. Once this is done, as things are at present, Parliament must be notified of the grounds for suspension. Parliament may then move for the Commissioner's reinstatement. Under clause 9, however, this will no longer apply and, instead, power to dismiss the Commissioner for misbehaviour or incapacity will lie with the Governor-General only. The Minister, in his second reading speech, gave us no reason for this change. It must be seen as a diminution in the direct parliamentary control along the lines of the use of regulation powers to change Schedule 4 of the Life Insurance Act to which I referred earlier. 
No mention was made by the Minister of the changes embodied in clause 6 of the Bill. They remove from the Act a total ban on the Commissioner engaging in outside employment. He may now do so if he obtains the Treasurer's approval. I am curious as to why this change has occurred. Surely the Commissioner is paid sufficient by way of salary and other emoluments to prevent him needing a part-time job outside his job as Commissioner. No doubt the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and Minister Assisting the Treasurer, when replying to this debate, will address himself also to this question which I believe is a proper one for us to raise when considering this Bill. Clauses 27, 31 and 33 of this Bill strengthen the hand of the Commissioner in communicating with the industry. They have obviously arisen as a result of imperfections which experience has shown to exist in the 1973 Act. They are to be welcomed as a logical extension of the intent of the original Act. I shall have more to say about this matter of communications with the industry in my concluding remarks. 
The Minister announced that the as yet unproclaimed section 1 13 of the existing Act is to be modified. This section deals with insurance being sent to unauthorised insurers overseas through agents in Australia. I am relieved to find that the modifications require that clients be informed when insurance is being transacted through insurers outside the scope of the Australian Act. However, I wonder whether more than the information may be required for the protection of policy holders. I should like to learn more about this as well in the Minister's reply. Let us face it, at the moment we are removing a protection. Although section 113, I suppose for practical reasons, has not yet been proclaimed, we must assume that when the Act came into being there was the intention to proclaim that section. Why are we watering down this section now? 
I have covered a number of the 39 amendments in this Bill. No doubt my colleagues will cover others in specific terms. The honourable member for Hawker suggested that perhaps one aspect should be covered in Committee stage. I look forward to contributions from the honourable member in the second reading debate to see whether we do go to a Committee stage. If we cover the points we wish to cover during the second reading stage, unless we have specific amendments, I doubt whether we will go to a Committee stage of this Bill. Perhaps the honourable member would like to do both. 
Before concluding my remarks, I should like to refer to what I regard as an omission from the Bill. Unlike the Minister, I believe that there  is  a necessity for proposals relating to the establishment of new insurance companies to be examined on the basis of national interest criteria. I doubt whether arrangements designed to ensure the financial soundness of companies necessarily covers the needs of the national interest. The Minister's assurance that proposals by overseas interests will be subject to the Government's foreign investment policy is of no great consolation. The insurance industry is of such importance that it requires more than this. I trust that this point will be widely examined in the deliberations of the parliamentary committee which, I repeat, I hope the Government will facilitate setting up. 
There are many other aspects of the general insurance industry which need to be raised. For example, there is the question of a scheme of natural disaster insurance. The Insurance Commissioner, in his 1976 report, regarded progress towards a national scheme as very important for the industry. Employers liability insurance is another area of importance which needs thorough investigation. The Opposition looks forward to the establishment of the committees I have mentioned and that are in our general business motions which will be able to perform such functions. 
I end my remarks on a more personal note. There are many excellent Australians working at all levels of the Australian insurance industry. On behalf of the Australian Labor Opposition, I pay tribute to them. Theirs is a vitally important industry for very many reasons. The provision of security for policy holders and the savings which they generate for investment in this developing country of ours are just two of the important reasons for that great industry. I am one who does not want more legislation if we can possibly help it. I certainly do not judge the success of government on the amount of legislation it puts through. But this is an imperfect world in which we live. Consumers- policy holders- have to be protected. The industry is only as good as the most unscrupulous people in it. That is why, on balance, I and my colleagues in the Labor Party have to opt for the best possible protective legislation to the greatest extent possible created with the help of the good people in the industry. But it seems to me that there are still some bad people in the industry and self-regulation does not adequately provide for their activities. 
Two areas in particular which require careful scrutiny are marine insurance and insurance brokers. I have a particular case on my plate through my electoral office which applies to both areas. That case has all the ingredients to cause one to claim that there is something rotten in the State of Denmark. I am not going to name names behind the cloak of parliamentary privilege at this stage because all of those involved have not yet had the time to reply to me and give me their side of the story. But it does no harm to state the story briefly because it very much relates to the protective legislation we have before this House. It involves the insurance of a boat for a large sum- $750,000. A broker filled out the proposal form for the client, my friend who has approached my electoral office. The broker in this case is also the main insurer although other companies are involved in the syndicate. The boat was burnt; it was virtually a complete write-off. From memory, the incident happened at least 2 or possibly 3 years ago, I think, in this month of April. Not a cent has been paid. Even if it has been 2 years since the incident that is bad enough, but if it has been 3 years that is worse. Why has the money not been paid? It is because the proposal form allegedly was not made out absolutely accurately. Having studied the matter closely, I assert that the inaccuracies do not affect the insurance risk in any way. They relate to whether or not a new engine which had been purchased for the boat had actually been placed in it at the time of the fire. But that is not the main point. If indeed the proposal form is wrong, who filled it out? It was the broker, who is also the main insurer. As I understand the law- I believe that the Minister Assisting the Treasurer is a lawyer; perhaps he may take a personal interest in this matter and give me some free personal advice - 
I would never suggest that any opinion from the Minister was a kerbside opinion. I am sure that it would be one of great value. But as I understand the law, my friendsthese small people who are dealing with powerful insurance companies- are unlikely to win the case because of the very strict business about every detail on the proposal form being correct. 
It shows all the signs of unscrupulous people taking advantage of bad law and not facing up to their responsibilities. 
I repeat that the industry is only as good as the worst people in it, which explains the need for this legislation. We in the Australian Labor Party always will be prepared to talk to the industry. We believe that there was an unnecessary breakdown in communications at the time of our simple proposal to establish an Australia government insurance commission. It was a modest proposal, the main aim being to rationalise on a national basis those State government insurance offices which were prepared to come into the rationalisation, the federation. In our view our desire for fair competition between the public sector and the private sector would have left the insurance industry in some States in a better position than it is at the present time. That argment developed into an emotional one with neither side trusting the other. We do not want that to happen again. We pledge ourselves to keep the doors of dialogue open between ourselves as the alternative government- the next government of this country- and the insurance industry. In that spirit the Opposition supports this legislation and, I repeat, seeks further communication with the insurance industry about future necessary changes. 
-The Opposition supports this amendment. We are very glad to learn that the Government found this improvement in time for it to be made before the Bill became an Act. As the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Viner)  outlined, the fact is that prosecutions which should be made for the better supervision of the industry by government have not been lodged because of this weakness. It would be interesting to learn, of course, why this amendment was not included when the Bill was drawn rather than at this stage, but perhaps that is a story which will come out on some other occasion. I am not going to speak for much longer. My colleague the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  who I told the House, if the House did not already know, during my speech in the second reading debate is an expert in this field of insurance, is to be congratulated for the interest he has taken and the valuable work he has done in making sure that there is more security for policy holders, particularly in the general insurance field. He will be joining the Committee stages of this debate for a very short time to apply himself to section 113. 
Whilst thanking the Minister for dealing with the details of the points I raised in my speech, nevertheless I must say that his reply was spoiled by the last couple of minutes of gratuitous nonsense. He need not be worried about the Labor Opposition's relationship with the insurance industry. What he should be worried about in drawing up legislation is bis own Party's relationship with the insurance industry. I am glad to say that the Labor Opposition now has a very good relationship with the insurance industry. Communications have been established in both directions, and that is the way they will continue while I am Opposition spokesman on economic affairs. I believe that the insurance industry knows it was misled for political reasons by the Liberal and National Country Parties during the time of the Labor Government. It was misled into emotional arguments concerning Australian Government insurance corporations, believing that they were hidden monsters. But I can assure you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  and I know that you will be very happy to learn this, that indeed those misunderstandings are now being cleared up and proper relationships have been restored with the insurance industry. Dialogue will continue and the Labor Opposition will communicate with the insurance industry on occasions such as this concerning legislation in relation to that industry. 
I shall delay the House for only a minute because I know that those who manage the business of the House want us to commence debate on another Bill, late though the hour is. I am incited by the reply of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  in his second reading speech - 
I was incited by the Minister's provocative reply to the second reading debate to say something about this Bill. I believe that there is hesitancy on the part of the Opposition in supporting this Bill because we are rightly suspicious about the aims of the Government in allowing only one year's appropriation for aged persons' pensioner dwellings. My colleagues on this side of the House have made constructive suggestions. They have quite rightly exercised every opportunity to show their concern about aged people. We have in power a conservative government which is mutilating the public sector, which is reducing the amount of money available for such matters as housing for aged people. Indeed, it has reduced the amount available for welfare for aged people and young people. We have only to look at the Appropriation Bills, if I may anticipate what will come before the House in a moment, to see that that is the case. Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and Appropriation Bill (No. 4), which we will be debating in a moment, show that this Government is hell-bent on mutilating the public sector. Of course we feel a hesitancy about supporting a measure like this. 
It is because the welfarism of this country is being mutilated in this way- 
I thank the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair).  It is unfair that I should be asked to commence my remarks on this major legislation at this late hour. I thank him for his courtesy. I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the quarterly estimates of national income and expenditure for the December quarter published today show clearly that, as a direct result of his Government's policies, household disposable income increased by only 12 per cent in 1976 compared with an inflation rate of 14.4 per cent? At the same time did we have a population growth rate of 1.5 per cent? Does this not mean a per capita decline in living standards of 3.9 per cent in 1 976? Is not this decline in the living standards of all Australians since this Government came to power not only the most damning and damaging indictment yet of his Government's policies but also the reason for workers' reactions rather than the reason he gave in answer to the honourable member for Hotham? 
-The purpose of the 2 Bills before the House is the appropriation of sums out of Consolidated Revenue for the business of government in addition to those funds already granted to the Government in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) and Appropriation Bill (No. 2). Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and Appropriation Bill (No. 4) are adjuncts to the Budget. Normally, they are simply devices to cater for unavoidable alterations to government expenditure patterns as laid out in the Budget. Occasionally they reflect substantially changes in the direction of government economic policy. That was the case in 1974-75, when the Labor Government increased public sector outlays as a counterbalance to rising unemployment. The international recession had evoked a similar response from the governments of most Western democracies, and I was glad that it evoked that response here in Australia. 
Normally, unless a major change in the level of government expenditure has occurred, extra appropriations in Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and Appropriation Bill (No. 4) are largely off-set by shortfalls in expenditure estimates in the Budget. These expenditure shortfalls are the amounts the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  likes to refer to as savings. They are, of course, not savings in any conventional sense of the word. Any large enterprise which plans expenditure over a 12-month period will find that circumstances will prevent its plans from being realised in every detail. So too with governments. The shortfalls of expenditure in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) and Appropriation Bill (No. 2) do not emerge for the most part as a result of improved management or greater work effort; they occur as a result of things not going as the Budget predicted. They also sometimes occur as a result of governments not honouring Budget commitments about expenditure to various groups. Also, they sometimes emerge, as all honourable members who have served on the Public Accounts Committee know, because of inefficient estimating. 
In the statement of savings issued by the Treasurer with the Bills we are debating, there are examples of shortfalls occurring for the first 2 reasons I mentioned. We will have to await the report of the Public Accounts Committee to ascertain whether or not the third reason is applicable here. Returning to the first 2 reasons, we see that it is expected that almost $2 1 6m less will be paid out of Consolidated Revenue to the Health Insurance Fund established under the Health Insurance Act than was expected when the Budget was framed. I suspect that this socalled saving has occurred because the Government did a better job of dismantling Medibank than it expected and that there are fewer people calling on the resources of the Health Insurance Fund. In this instance, the expenditure did not take the path expected by Appropriation Bill (No. 1). 
On page 32 of the statement of savings, we find in Division 308 of the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs an example of a saving made where a government has not honoured previous commitments. The so-called saving of $ 17.7m in the expenditure of the Australian Development Assistance Agency is effectively a cut of $ 17m in Australia's foreign aid. This cut sits rather strangely with the assurances of the 
Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  that Australia's foreign aid would not be cut in a de facto fashion via government induced administrative constrictions. It is obvious from looking at the details that this cut in aid has occurred because the Australian Development Assistance Agency has been unable because of staff cutbacks to spend the money committed to it. 
Genuine savings in government expenditure which lead to greater efficiency are of course sought and welcomed by all parties, certainly by the Opposition Labor Party. A genuine saving occurs when the same service is provided to the same people for less cost or where it is discovered that benefits can be withdrawn from people who have no need of them. For example, if the reduction in the appropriation to the Health Insurance Fund had occurred because of less than anticipated usage of health services and if this did not result in a decline in health care standards, then a much needed saving would have emerged. I am somewhat sickened by Government members who claim great credit for saving taxpayers' money but do it simply by transferring the cost to the taxpayer in a disguised fashion. I doubt whether taxpayers who were saved the cost of the burden of Medibank regarded themselves as better off after they had paid private health insurance subscriptions. 
I have mentioned a number of sacrifices associated with the Bills before the House but in general I have left aspects of details of spending to be taken up by my colleagues speaking in this debate. Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and Appropriation Bill (No. 4), as extensions of the Budget as I said earlier, should be examined in the light of overall Budget strategy. The Budget is now 9 months old and it is possible to make a judgment as to its success or failure. This I will do later. The Budget of 1976-77 was framed around large cuts in government expenditure and investment incentives to the business sector. The ultimate parameter used by the Government in its Budget construction was the deficit. This had to be cut at all costs. The reason for this was quite obvious. The Government when in Opposition had run a concentrated campaign of conjecture, half truth and downright lies about the effects of the deficit being run by the Labor Government. This campaign, led by the Treasurer and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  was the ultimate exercise in talking down the economy. It was an orchestrated appeal to fear, playing on the ignorance most people have of the technicalities of the way an economy functions. 
The Treasurer exaggerated for his own ends figures for the final deficit. The Prime Minister quaintly told everybody the country was broke and that everyone owed the Government $500. It is no wonder that when the Treasurer accuses others of talking down the economy it is impossible to take him seriously. It is little wonder that accusations of economic ignorance thrown by the Prime Minister at members of the Opposition conjure up pictures of the chap who lived in a glass house and threw stones. As part of its attack on the Labor Government the conservatives latched onto levels of government expenditure as a prime cause of domestic economic recession. It is pointless drawing to their attention that most of the real rises in government expenditure were a reaction to rather than a cause of economic recession. In none of the of conservatives' discussion of Australia's economic performance in the years between 1972 and 1975 did the international recession play a major role. What nonsense this was. The Treasurer attempted to mislead us again yesterday during question time by suggesting that it was the Labor Government's policies which had caused the recession. I repeat: What nonsense this is. There was a world economic crisis during 1974 and 1975. This discussion of the past is, of course, very relevant to the present because accurate gauging of causes of a problem are needed before any worthwhile remedies may be prescribed. 
The economics editor of the  Age  newspaper,  Mr Ken  Davidson, provided us with a graphic illustration of the effects the world recession had on Western economies in a recent series of articles. During 1975 non-farm gross domestic product in 7 major Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries fell by an average 1 .3 per cent. In plain terms this means that all leading Western economies suffered a severe recession in 1975. Australia also caught up in this recession but our performance under a Labor government, aided by positive use of government expenditure, was discernably better than most others. During 1975 Australia's nonfarm gross domestic product actually rose, granted by only .4 per cent. But it was a rise compared to the substantial average fall in the major OECD countries. 
At this stage I might point to other statistics put together by  Mr Davidson  which compare Australia's economic performance with the 7 major OECD countries, this time for periods following the Liberal and National Country Parties return to office. In 1976 non-farm gross domestic product in Australia rose by 4 per cent, in contrast the average for the 7 major OECD countries of 5.5 per cent. In the calendar year 1977 optimistic estimates place the real growth in 
Australia's non-farm GDP at about 3.2 per cent whereas the OECD estimates that the average figure for the 7 major countries will be 4 per cent. In short, Australia's growth performance compared more favourably with overseas experiences under Labor than it has under this Government. 
A similar view emerges from a table of average annual percentage increases in industrial production put together from OECD data in the December bulletin of the Flinders Institute of Labour Studies. In the period 1972-75 Australia ranked fourth on a table of industrial production for 14 countries. We were ninth in the period 1964-68 and have fallen from fourth to eighth when the 6 months of this Government's policies are taken into account. I mention these facts because too much of the economic debate in Australia is clouded by ill-informed criticism of Labor's economic performance. True, there were problems. But they were not predominantly of domestic origin. The international recession must be recognised for what influence it played. That was the major influence. 
Looked at in its true perspective, the level of government expenditure under Labor was a major element in preventing a slide into much deeper recession. Any dangers that rapidly increasing rates of government expenditure could be counter-productive by crowding out the private sector were removed through the trimming which occurred in the 1975 Hayden Budget. I mentioned earlier that this was an appropriate time to examine the Government's Budget strategy in the light of performance. In Budget Statement No. 2 a number of predictions are made for the year 1976-77 about movements in national product, monitory conditions, the labour market and wages and prices. I would like to examine these predictions at this stage. 
I will deal firstly with national product. Nonfarm GDP was expected to grow in real terms by about 4 per cent in 1976-77. In the first half of the financial year significantly less than half this growth had been achieved and statistics for 1977 give no indication of any improvement. In regard to the labour market, it was expected that employment growth would be consistent with a gradual reduction in the rate of unemployment. No such thing has occurred. Unemployment in January reached a post-war record of 354 589 people- 5.8 per cent of the work force. At the end of March, 5.4 per cent of the work force was unemployed compared with 4.5 per cent a year earlier when Labor's policies were applied. No gradual reductions in unemployment had occurred; rather a substantial increase in unemployment had taken place. 
I turn to deal with prices and incomes. Both the consumer price index and average weekly earning were expected to increase by about 12 per cent in 1976-77 so the Budget told us. Experience has shown that the expectation for the CPI was little more than wishful thinking. During the first half of the financial year the CPI rose by 8.2 per cent. Devaluation has insured that it will rise by around 7 per cent in the first half of 1 977. This will give a rise approaching 15 per cent for the year compared with a Budget prediction of 12 per cent. I say this in spite of the 2.3 per cent increase announced today as the increase in the consumer price index for the March quarter. All that that 2.3 per cent depicts is that the effects of devaluation are seeping into our economy because of very sluggish retail sales rather more slowly than was expected. Another reason for the 2.3 per cent increase, which I agree is less than was expected by the pundits, is food prices which increased by only 1.9 per cent compared with 5 per cent in the similar quarter last year. The increase in average weekly earnings may be closer to 12 per cent as the living standards of workers fall and the Government intensifies its campaign to make wage and salary earners pay for its own mistakes. 
Dramatic evidence of the adverse effect that the policies of the Fraser Government are having on the living standards of ordinary Australians appeared in the December quarter national accounts released yesterday. These figures revealed that living standards in Australia fell by more than 4 per cent during 1976 due to actions of the Fraser Government. The December quarter national income estimates show that, seasonally adjusted, household disposable income rose by 12 per cent between December 1975 and December 1976. During the same period, consumer prices increased by 14.4 per cent indicating a fall in real household disposable income of 2.4 per cent. When a population growth of 1.5 per cent and the reductions in the social wage through reduced government spending are taken into account, real income per person fell by over 4 per cent during 1 976. 
I move on to deal with monetary conditions. The Budget assumptions were suggested to be consistent with a growth in the volume of money broadly defined at between 10 per cent to 12 per cent. Devaluation has rendered this statement somewhat inoperative as the Treasurer has told us that devaluation would necessitate a revision in the estimate for money supply growth. Significantly, no announcement as to what the revised target would be has been made. The latest figures suggest that the money supply is growing at a rate of about 12 per cent per annum. This implies a decline of approximately 4 per cent in the real level of money in circulation. Such a decline has obvious ramifications for the economy, and especially for small businesses. That sector has been extremely hard hit by this Government's monetary policies. We see large company profits rising swiftly while small business is starved of finance even for everyday needs. The overdraft is the source of working capital for small business, and overdrafts are restricted. 
It is obvious from the broad resume I have given that the 1976-77 Budget strategy is in tatters and that the Budget is nowhere near on line. It would have been reasonable to expect the Government to realise the error of its ways and to take remedial action by means of these additional Appropriation Bills which we are debating today. The central problem with the Government's strategy has been its failure to use the public sector in its proper role. Leaving aside the folly of Medibank and devaluation, I say that the Government's major move which has influence over the level of economic activity has been the reduction in the real level of government outlays. The last quarterly national accounts indicated a fall of some 8 per cent in government capital expenditure during the last 12 months. The effect of that has been the slow down in activity, and it is obvious that that has happened. The major part of the rest of the world is enjoying some economic recovery. In keeping with that, governments have been cutting back the rate of increase in real government expenditure. Australia, on the other hand, is still wallowing in recession. Its Government's answer is to cut back the real level of government outlays. We are completely out of step with the rest of the world. Significantly the Treasurer no longer bleats about international endorsement for the economic policies of his Government. News yesterday of the enormous increase in government outlays in France- the home of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development- makes nonsense of the line that the Treasurer has been taking. In fact, it would seem from first reports that much of the strategy advocated by Labor over the past year has been adopted in the French Government's latest moves. 
The Government is still preoccupied with its misconceptions about the deficit. It still rigidly adheres to a brand of stone age economics. In spite of cries from all sections of the community for the Liberal and National Country Parties to take alternative action, they cling to theories and philosophies which visited the Great Depression upon the world. The Government's approach to the economy is totally wrong. It has set about giving business incentives to expand and to invest but it has forgotten that there is not much good in asking business to produce goods if no one will buy them. The Government relied on consumer spending for a short while and then it set about reducing that spending power by its actions in national wage cases. The Prime Minister obviously does not understand the problems the economy faces and has no ideas for remedies. The grasping of the wages and prices freeze was an act of sheer desperation. No one who understands how an economy works could possibly suggest such a plan without first working out the details-getting the necessary support from employers and employees. Let us hope that something can be salvaged from the chaos. But if a proud man, our Prime Minister, will not arrange a national conference to prepare the necessary ground work, nothing will happen. 
Since coming to power this Government has tottered from one economic policy to another. The editorial of the 14 April edition of the  Australian Financial Review  put those policies all together in one bundle. I quote from that newspaper: 
Fraser's investment led recovery, the consumer led recovery of last August's Budget, the devaluation strategy of last November, the wages and incomes freeze of April. 
They are put together in a bundle. Each of those strategies was virtually torpedoed by other government action. The Government seems intent on drawing up strategies and then taking action to make sure that they do not work. In contrast, the Labor Opposition has been consistent in what it has proposed, and I shall come to that in a moment. At the present time the country is left without a plausible economic strategy. The Prime Minister still exhorts people to support his freeze, but that does not hide the lack of a real economic policy. The  Australian Financial Review  of 1 5 April put it this way: 
Talk of a 'national effort' is all very fine but it is political garbage when it is used to cover up for the lack of any coherent policy. 
Conjecture is rife about the 1977-78 Budget. Fears of credit squeezes plague small business. Nobody knows where the Government is going. The Opposition has consistently put forward a viable alternative approach to that being followed by the Government. That approach involves an initial widening of the deficit and a modest increase in the rate of growth of the money supply. Support for a strategy which involves the use of the deficit to bring about a higher level of economic activity and thus attack inflation from a stronger economic base comes from many areas. All Labor State Premiers, as well as the Victorian Liberal State Premier, have put forward proposals involving initial widening of the deficit. The Bank of New South Wales, which previously was one of the Government's strongest supporters, has noted that 'the Government seems to have achieved little perceptible headway in controlling inflation and reviving business confidence'. The Bank of New South Wales said also that policy changes should be made 'even though in the short term the deficit would be thereby increased '. 
Only on Tuesday  Mr Rod  Black,  President  of the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation, called for tax cuts and a selective increase in government expenditure. Editorial comment in the  Canberra Times  has expressed concern at the Government's obsession with deficit reduction. The comment is the same from all these sources within Australia. The story is the same abroad, if we look at what is happening in France, Japan and the United States, to mention just 3 countries. The story is the same abroad if we take note of the article in today's  Wall Street Journal  of New York in which the bankruptcy of the Australian Government's economic policy is pointed out. The deficit can responsibly be increased at this stage of our economic history. The rate of growth of the money supply can be increased. Once it is accepted that the deficit may be increased, half the battle is over. It then remains to obtain a maximum activity increase from a limited deficit increase. The clawback of the extra taxes from the extra income which comes from that extra activity immediately reduces the deficit. 
The Opposition believes that indirect tax cuts and selective increases in government expenditure are preferable to cuts in direct taxes. Indirect tax cuts directly affect the cost structure and hence are compatible with the continuation of orderly wage fixation which indexation affords. They also tend to produce a greater increase in activity than does an equivalent cut in direct taxes. Government expenditure in areas such as the building and construction industry would have a direct and immediate effect on employment. The way back is long and hard, but these measures would, in the short term, get us back on the right path. Regrettably many of the Government's concessions to business are not producing the desired effect. Consequently these should be scrapped to allow expenditure in more productive areas. For example, very few people ever conceived that the investment allowance should be available in conjunction with the stock valuation proposals. These funds are at the moment simply enlarging short term corporate profits. While not detracting from the importance of company profitability for new investment in new jobs, I suggest that the companies would be better off in the long term if government stimulated an increase in the aggregate level of demand. 
The same comment applies to what the Prime Minister had to say today in relation to the new mining ventures that have got off the ground. Any senior mining man in this country will say that it is not the investment allowances- those hand outs- which have closed other options and which have meant that these new ventures, which we all applaud, get going. That has not been the cause of" the new investment. What has been the cause of new investment is the new markets which are created as a return from world economic activity. I believe that is why the Opposition regards many of these concessions, these allowances, as being too extravagant. It is not that we do not applaud some people getting some new concessions which might lead to new employment; it is a question of what the options are and what are better ways of doing things. The best way in which to get the economy moving in this country and to get people back to work is to stimulate consumer spending. 
As part of its alternative strategy the Opposition calls for a major expansion of manpower and retraining schemes. While those sorts of activities do have some short term benefits they are primarily designed to counter long term structural problems. There is a major difference here between attitudes of the Government and of the Opposition. Very little the Government has said or done suggests that it sees the basic structural problems in the economy which cannot be overcome by macro policy initiatives. Indeed in one document tabled in the House by the Treasurer it was suggested that all recessions were cyclical and could be overcome by normal counter cyclical policy. I point out that this is not the view taken by experts in the field of employment and manpower studies. During discussion at an experts meeting organised by the OECD Directorate for Social Affairs, Manpower and Education in Paris, unemployment due to several factors was distinguished. These factors were cyclical, physical, social and mental disabilities, seasonal, frictional and structural. It is obvious that a government that is incorrectly distinguishing causes of problems will be inept at providing solutions. The Opposition, unlike the Government, has discerned many of the real problems facing the economy and has viable plans to combat them. Accordingly, I intend to move an amendment on behalf of the Opposition. 
Before doing so I want to summarise the points that I have been making. The Government came to power with its ideology of mutilating and reducing the public sector. That was a totally wrong ideology which would lead to totally wrong economic policies at any time, particularly at this stage of Australia's economic history. The lack of government spending meant a lack of jobs in the public and private sectors because of contracts the public sector has with the private sector. But more than anything it meant a lack of confidence and a lack of consumer spending which are so vitally required. From that bad start the Government has ricochetted from one bad decision to another, so much so, of course, that not only is there a lack of confidence at home but there is also a lack of confidence abroad which leads to an outflow of funds and the disastrous devaluation decision which, as I mentioned earlier, was commented upon in the  Wall Street Journal.  All of this has led to another grasping for straws in the so-called wages and prices freeze. This is not a substitute for hard economic policies. 
What the Opposition is putting forward is a viable alternative strategy. We believe that there ought to be cuts in indirect taxes to stimulate consumer spending. We believe there ought to be more government spending, particularly in the construction area and in local initiative programs. We believe also there ought to be government spending in manpower programs because we are short of skilled workers. We believe that this spending and cuts in indirect taxes can be done without exacerbating inflation. We point in particular to the fact that our extra expenditure and our loss in revenue would be financed by phasing out some of the more extravagant handouts to the business sector which have not produced results, however pleasant they may be for those receiving them. We cannot get an investment led recovery because the business sector has not produced results. Therefore assistance to this sector ought to be substituted by programs which will produce results. 
The other way of finding funds is by a modest increase in the money supply which will not be inflationary as long as that increase is not greater than the rate of inflation plus the rate of growth. We also believe that at least $500m would be available by a more vigorous selling of government bonds, a more vigorous funding of the deficit. The time available to me has almost concluded. Therefore, on behalf of the Opposition I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not denying the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that (a) the slashing of government spending is part of an inept economic strategy which has led to a decline in the standard of living of all Australians and (b) there is an urgent need for alternative policies of promoting a consumer led recovery by cuts in indirect taxes and appropriate stimulatory expenditure on job creation and manpower training programs, all done in a context of not increasing inflation by (i) phasing out the more extravagant business tax concessions, (ii) increasing the money supply but not beyond the rate of inflation plus growth and (iii) instituting a more vigorous bond-selling program'. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 24 March 1977: 
1 ) What has been the total expenditure on welfare in each financial year from 1965-77. 
) How is welfare defined in the answer to part ( 1 ). 
What was the total expenditure on administration and delivery costs in each year from 1 965-66. 
What proportion of total welfare expenditure was required for administration and delivery costs. 
-The Opposition does not oppose these Bills. On the other hand, we have no great enthusiasm for the trading stock valuation adjustment in the main Bill. We think that important and necessary inflation accounting adjustments could have been improved upon in a number of ways. The major principle applying to the main provision in the first Bill being debated in this cognate debate is that inequitable tax burdens which arise as a result of the effects of inflation should be alleviated. The Opposition has sympathy for that principle. However, we find no particular merit in the way the Government has sought to put the principle on to the statute books through this measure. The Government has taken only one side of the picture into account. Firms are to be compensated for some of the adverse effects of inflation on the assets side of their balance sheets while their possible gains on the liabilities side are ignored. At a time when the Government refuses all other requests for increased expenditure, in this measure it is forgoing $360m in revenue. Surely it should justify this in a little more detail than the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has done to date in the Bills before us. How is it to aid the economy as a whole? If this $360m means a significant reduction in the rate of price rises, then this is a good way for it to be spent, although not necessarily the best way. But is that going to be the outcome? We have yet to see. 
This is how the Opposition judges the effectiveness of the legislation. The Mathews Committee saw its recommendations for tax alleviation as a substitute for price rises. This direct forgoing of tax should not be seen in any other light. I interpose that of course it is to alleviate price increases, in this case through wage increases, that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions joins with the Labor Opposition in calling for a national conference to get us all out of the present spiral of prices chasing costs chasing prices. Perhaps we have an example here of that being done, but as I will show in a moment I would like to be sure that that is what is happening. This direct forgoing of tax should not be seen in any other light. But what measures is the Government taking to see that tax alleviation is passed on through the system for the benefit of the community? I repeat that we have not yet been told. 
While the Opposition at least has sympathy in principle with aspects of this Bill, and indeed it supports all the other provisions in the Bill, it has no sympathy at all with some misleading words of the Treasurer in his second reading speech. Traditionally, second reading speeches are vehicles for explanation. They are not normally a means of misleading the House about the attitude of previous governments. But I suppose the Treasurer has become a little used to making misleading statements about inflation, unemployment and growth, so much so that those misleading statements have become something of a habit with him. Regrettably, it appears to be becoming a permanent trait. The Labor Government did not refuse to make changes based on the Mathews recommendations, as the Treasurer asserted in his second reading speech. To put it mildly, the Treasurer was inaccurate when he said that. What the then Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  did say at the time on behalf of the Government was: 
These - 
The Mathews Committee recommendations-  are important recommendations with complex ramifications and there is a need for a further study of them before final decisions are made. 
It is obvious from the Government's proposals that a little more time should have been spent in study. 
As I have already said, the trading stock valuation adjustment proposals are the most significant sections of this legislation, and I will devote most of my allotted time to those proposals. However, before doing so I will comment briefly upon the other changes to the Income Tax Assessment Act included in these Bills. Clauses 3 and 15 deal with rebates payable to employers under the Government's scheme of rebates for apprentice full time training- the CRAFT scheme, as it is known. These payments to employers are to be exempted from income tax. The allowances paid to apprentices under the scheme, however, are to be subject to normal taxation provisions. The Opposition is not opposing these changes. As a slight indication of the Government's acknowledgment of the drastic problem of youth unemployment, perhaps the CRAFT scheme is to be welcomed. In fact, it is welcomed by the Opposition. On the other hand, as these measures do little more than dint the surface of the problem, these changes to the tax Act should be seen as a reminder that the Government is in fact offering only piecemeal solutions to a major problem. CRAFT is not any sort of real solution to youth unemployment problems or shortages of skilled manpower. It is no substitute for a comprehensive manpower and retraining scheme. Investment in such a program now would be a practical means of working towards a solution of the long term problems confronting the economy as well as substantially alleviating the short term problems. 
The amendments in clauses 13 and 14 of the Bill allow for the phasing in of the system of collection of company tax by instalments, and that is also the purpose of the second Bill we are deBating today. In the first instance, there will be two collections for the financial year 1977-78. Collections will then be quarterly, without further changes to the income tax Assessment Act. I think it goes without saying that in these amendments the Government is restoring a system it should never have abolished. Just 12 months ago, when introducing the legislation to suspend quarterly tax payments, the Treasurer said that it was being done to 'assist business in the present difficult financial circumstances'. Events since that time have shown that the only assistance it gave to business was to give to some interests the capacity to speculate against the Australian dollar. I should say more accurately that that was one of the benefits it gave to business. This helped to precipitate devaluation. Even 12 months ago the Treasurer should have had advice from his Department that such a turn of events was possible. If such advice was proffered it was obviously ignored in favour of a sectional piece of advice, namely, to alleviate the business sector by suspending, indeed terminating, the quarterly company tax payments. I need go no further into the circumstances surrounding devaluation and the disastrous nature of that decision. The  Wall Street Journal  article of last week put the decision in its proper perspective, and I draw attention to that article. The Opposition is glad that the Government has seen the error of its ways and has recognised the far sightedness of the Labor Government's initiatives, which will substantially aid liquidity management in this country. 
Clauses 9, 10 and 1 1 of the Bill deal with the arrangements for income tax averaging for primary producers. At the moment, the letter of the law is, I am informed, acting contrary to the intent of the original law. These amendments will ensure that primary producers can make better use of the averaging provisions without being wrongly penalised. Frankly, it will not benefit those whose taxable incomes never rise above $16,000; nor will it benefit those whose taxable incomes are permanently above $16,000. But it will benefit those people whose taxable incomes hover around the $16,000 mark. In the years their taxable incomes are above $16,000, they pay normal marginal rates of taxation on the amount above $ 16,000. Therefore, it seems equitable that the part of the taxable income above $16,000 should be excluded from the calculations to arrive at an average taxable income. The Opposition does not oppose these amendments to the Bill. In fact, it goes further and supports them. 
Clause 7 of the Bill provides for an amendment to the gift provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act to allow gifts of $2 or more to the 
Queen Elizabeth II Jubilee Trust for young Australians to be claimed as tax deductions. Clause 4 ensures that certain defence force retirement benefits and other Service pensions which a recent High Court decision may have rendered tax exempt in fact will be subject to taxation. This amendment simply means that the Act as applied in the past will continue. All other superannuation benefits are taxable. It would be inequitable if these superannuation benefits were not taxed. These provisions also are supported by members of the Opposition. 
I now turn my attention to the proposals for trading stock valuation adjustments. Clauses 5, 6 and 8 cater for these changes. Essentially, the scheme as introduced by the Government provides for a deduction from taxable income at the end of the financial year of an amount related to the value of trading stock costs at the beginning of the financial year. The deduction is equal to half the percentage increase in the goods component of the consumer price index over the previous year as applied to that value. The object of these provisions is the lessening of what is seen to be an inflation induced tax burden on companies and businesses generally. As I mentioned earlier, the proposals arise from the report of the Labor Government initiated Mathews Committee which dealt with inflation and taxation. The Mathews Committee recommendations resulted from the Committee's perception that inflation was causing a crisis in the business sector. Professor Mathews had summarised the Committee's conclusions as follows- I quote from its report: 
On the basis of existing accounting, pricing and taxing arrangements a firm can only survive by adopting one or more of the following policy options: Continuously increasing its profit mark-up relative to costs, without simultaneously increasing its profit distribution; continuously increasing its indebtedness; or continuously raising fresh capital. If it cannot do these things, it must continuously reduce the amounts of its profit distribution or continuously reduce the scale of its operations ultimately to the point of extinction. 
The core of the problem is, of course, the method of accounting used. The conventional argument goes as follows: Historical cost accounting in times of high inflation will give rise to illusory profits. They will be large in money terms and attract taxation accordingly. However, in real terms as far as the continuing operations of the company are concerned, the profits often become non-existent when replacement price rises are taken into account. The danger is that in real terms taxation and dividends based on money profits will be paid out of capital. This process of erosion of the capital base is to be guarded against as it jeopardises the company's future capacity for providing employment. 
The Mathews proposals present a partial method for overcoming such capital erosion without changes in accounting practices. Proposals for current cost accounting are attempts to overcome the problem through changes in accounting practice. A draft procedure for current cost accounting is still subject to much debate and controversy amongst accountancy bodies in Australia and throughout the world. As yet, proposals put forward for practical application in Australia have dealt with only the asset side of the ledger or the balance sheet as, indeed, the Mathews proposals and the Government's scheme do. 
However, there are liabilities involved as well. Just as inflation acting on asset values will lead to an overstatement of the real profit situation, inflation induced reductions in the real value of debt could act to understate conventional profits. The ideal situation, of course, would be a form of accounting which could take both effects into consideration and arrive at a true profit position. This is proving a very difficult idea) to achieve. The assets adjustment is comparatively easy. The liabilities adjustment is very difficult. However, to ignore totally the liabilities gains and compensate fully for the assets losses is certainly not the answer. By doing this, stock holding firms will be given a substantial subsidy by other tax paying sectors or by those who deserve government services which are eliminated because of the erosion of revenue through a measure such as this one. 
Adjustments as a result of the gain from the declining real value of financial liabilities in inflationary times and the decline in the market value of a firm's outstanding liabilities as a result of rising interest rates have been shown to be quite substantial. In 1976 a study by John B. Shoven and Jeremy I. Bulow was published in 'Brookings Papers on Economic Activity'. This study attempted to arrive at a real level for aggregate non-financial corporate profits in the United States of America in 1974. Those gentlemen deduced that reduced real liabilities added something of the order of $66 billion to aggregate profits and that stock plus depreciation adjustments brought about only a $27 billion reduction from the asset side. The sum total of the 2 adjustments resulted in a level of adjusted after-tax profits almost $40 billion above the conventional figure arrived at in the national accounts. When the authors carried out their adjustment on the 30 Dow Jones industrial companies in the U.S., they found that after-tax profits for 1974 were $23.5 billion, some $7.5 billion above the unadjusted figure. 
A detailed study would be needed to see what the real position was like in Australia. But these figures from the United States present a stark reminder that in looking at the effects of inflation, gains as well as losses must be acknowledged. However, it would appear that by only adjusting on the stock side for 50 per cent of the rise in the price level and not introducing the depreciation recommendations of the Mathews Committee the Government has approached closer to the true position of compensation than if full indexation were granted, tn this respect I give notice that while the Opposition is not opposing adjustments for half the rise in the consumer price index, it will not necessarily accept a move to the full index. In the absence of information that the liabilities position of Australian firms is vastly different from the U.S. experience, adjustment for the whole index must be regarded definitely as over-compensation. In this context, we must bear in mind also the vastly improved profit performance of so many companies in recent months when compared with the situation existing when Professor Mathews and his Committee were examining the Australian business sector. 
With governments the world over seemingly unable to reduce inflation quickly to the lower levels of the early 1960s, it is important that a process of accounting which caters for all the effects of inflation be instituted as soon as possible. Obviously severe distortions will arise when only part of the picture is acted on. This is not an argument for any diminution in efforts to control inflation but rather a plea for a realistic appraisal of the strains inflation places on the functions of all traditional institutions. 
At this point I want to make a brief comment on an argument which is purported to have been put forward by the bureaucracy- by the Administration I prefer to call it- in opposing the Mathews recommendations. This argument is along the lines that the Mathews Committee looked at the taxation problems of businesses at a time of very tight credit and a growing recession which caused a rise in stock to above normal levels. This meant that the problems perceived by the Committee were arising as a result of recession and government anti-inflationary policy rather than inflation upsetting the traditional order. I am not overly impressed by this approach. It ignores the crux of the problem. The very magnitude of the adjustments on both sides that the United States study made to conventional profits- historical accounting profits- indicates that the effects of inflation itself are a problem and must be coped with. 
Equally, attempting to isolate one sector of an economy from the effects of anti-inflationary policy under the guise of correcting an accounting problem is to be treated with caution. I am reminded of the song  All or Nothing at all.  I want the accounting profession to establish fair and equitable adjustments across the board. Then let us have a look at the taxation implications of that. I and my colleagues in the Australian Labor Party Opposition do not want dividends and taxation paid out of capital. So true profits must be calculated. But we do not want inequity either. That could be the result if total indexation is applied to just the stocks, the assets side. 
Whatever is the net result of the effect of inflation on liabilities and assets, on a firm's real trading position, one thing is well established, that is, the cost of the stock adjustment proposals to revenue. I repeat what I said earlier; it will be $360min 1977-78. The benefit will be spread very unevenly across the corporate sector, depending on a firm's stock holdings. In total the Government has forgone revenue of the order of $1 billion in taxation changes which have diverted resources primarily to the business sector. That has occurred in a budgetary position in which the Government claims that enlarging the Budget deficit is impossible, in which it refuses even to discuss the possibility of a tax cut and wage rise trade off, in which recession has stretched welfare services to the limit with threats being made to cut them even further, in which unemployment has been deliberately created through cuts in capital works expenditure and inflationary pressures have been exacerbated through increases in government charges. Those things have been done at a time when that outline applies. It is in those circumstances that the Government has decided to allocate a substantial quantity of scarce resources on these measures. I repeat, we are not opposing them. The Government has a mandate for them. We would be doing something similar if in government, but hopefully without the bugs contained in the measure. But we must note, as I have just done, the hypocrisy which I have just outlined in relation to the situation that applies in this country at the present time. 
Given this situation, any attempt to appraise the efficacy of the Government proposals must be made with full knowledge of the alternative uses to which the revenue forgone could have been put. In the jargon of economists, the opportunity costs have to be considered. The Government has tended to portray the stock valuation adjustment scheme, as it did the investment allowance, as a means of restoring what it saw as a severe imbalance in the profit and wages shares of the gross national product and, through that process, of evoking economic recovery. Experience has shown, however, that investment decisions are made primarily in the expectation of increased demand and not as a result of increased investment incentives. In that respect the revenue forgone on the investment allowance could certainly have been better spent in adding to the aggregate demand. The stock valuation scheme does deserve somewhat different evaluation as, in theory at least, it is designed to overcome distortions induced by inflation. However, because of the fashion in which it has been given by the Fraser Government, one could be foregiven for identifying it as simply another attempt to bring about economic recovery indirectly through enlarging private sector profits. 
As this legislation is intimately connected with corporate profitability, the debate on it is an appropriate time to set the record straight on the wages and profits share issues. At the moment the profit share, or gross operating surpluses of companies, is about 1 4 per cent of GDP at factor cost. Historically it has been around the 15 per cent to 16 per cent mark in times of strong economic growth. In times of recession it has fallen to as low as 12 per cent. The deeper the recession, the larger the fall. In the 1961 recession it dropped to 12.6 per cent. It rose to 16.7 per cent in the normal recovery phase; that is, it rose by 4.1 per cent without government action being taken forcibly to reduce the wages share or inflate the profits share. The lesson from this is that the corporate sector now needs less in the way of special concessions; it will achieve its long term share of product simply through economic recovery. What is now needed is action to bring about across the board economic recovery. Any government revenue forgone would receive its maximum return if directed towards that end. 
As I implied earlier, this legislation presents something of a quandary. In theory it is aimed at correcting a definite distortion, but it does not go about it in anything like a complete fashion. It has been introduced at a time when an investment allowance is already operating and, given the premium on government funds, there is no justification for both operating together. In brief, there is a case for an adjustment to be made to company taxation in the light of inflation. 
Indeed, there is a case for an adjustment to be made to taxation of other businesses, but there is no case for an investment allowance to be given in addition. 
One thing that should result once this legislation is on the statute book and once companies benefit from it is, as I indicated earlier, a slow down in the rate of increase in private sector prices. The Mathews Committee was adamant that it saw its proposals as a means of reducing the need for companies to raise prices to retain real profit levels. Now that the Government has seen fit to use its scarce resources in this manner, it is up to the Government to make sure that the taxpayers receive maximum benefit from their outlays. Efficiency in government spending does not stop at supervising public sector expenditure; it also means that concessions given to specific groups in the economy must be seen to be given in a fashion which leads to maximum return in social or economic terms for society as a whole. The benefit society as a whole should receive from this scheme is a much slower rate of price increases than would otherwise have taken place. Taxation these days is identified by most firms as being simply another cost. When the tax burden, and thus costs, are reduced and if all other things are equal, it should be logical for prices to follow suit. It is clearly the Government's responsibility to make sure that that happens. The Government will not achieve that end by following its previous policy of watering down the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
I have outlined views on the principles behind this legislation. I now turn briefly to the details of it. Perhaps the Minister will find some reason to reply to that detail when he responds to the second reading debate. A strange aspect of the provisions in the legislation is the decision to use the goods component of the consumer price index as a basis for calculating the tax deduction. There are obvious practical grounds for using a single index to calculate deductions rather than following the more complicated procedures suggested by the Mathews Committee. Why have the wholesale price indices developed by the Australian Bureau of Statistics and recommended by Mathews in later discussions not been seized upon for this purpose? These indices are directly related to the increase in the price of stocks. Perhaps the Minister will put his views on that aspect also on record in his reply. 
Another obvious defect in the Bill, in our view, is that it is asymmetrical in the treatment of sales valuation adjustments. If stocks are falling in price, as we hope is likely to happen in the not too distant future, with commodities such as tea and coffee, an unfavourable adjustment will be eliminated. Surely some provision should have been included in the Bill to take account of the windfall gains that can occur through fluctuating raw commodity prices. Livestock has been included amongst the types of stock eligible for the adjustment. The Mathews Committee determined that the treatment of livestock in primary industry was already favourable and that it did not need the additional concession. Things may have changed since the time of the report and there may now be valid reasons for the inclusion of livestock. However, the Treasurer must explain the Government's decision in this regard if others in the community are not to feel aggrieved by livestock being included when it was specifically excluded in the expert Committee's report. Perhaps the Treasurer or the Minister Assisting the Treasurer at the table could also enlighten us as to why special arrangements could not be made for companies with accounting periods which close at times other than 30 June. The Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia has pointed out that these companies should be allowed to use an index covering a time period more relevant to their trading stock adjustment claims. We would like to know the Government's attitude on this. 
Perhaps the biggest problem in framing legislation of this type is providing for adequate safeguards against abuse of the system. Clauses 5 and 6 of the Bill contain special provisions designed to guard against tax avoidance. The Commissioner of Taxation has been given wide powers. However, it is doubtful that he has the resources effectively to use those powers. The short period of time that has elapsed since the Bill was introduced has meant that detailed study of the adequacy of the tax avoidance safeguard has been impossible. The best advice we have is that they appear to be as good as could be expected under the circumstances. Problems have arisen, though, in the implementation of clause 6. Its provisions are to be retrospective to 1 July 1976, unless the rumours we hear are correct. If they are correct, I would have thought - 
I thank the Minister for now telling me that the amendment has been circulated. I think he will understand my grievanceI was going to say 'my resentment' but perhaps that is a bit strong-at not being informed about that before opening this major debate on behalf of the Opposition on these income tax changes. I think that perhaps normal courtesy ought to prevail. I do not assert that it was his fault. However, I think that the Treasurer's office might have given me advance advice of the amendment. I shall now tell the Minister what my attitude to the legislation was before learning about this amendment. 
Whatever the merit of proposed new sections 31c and 36a, many people who have entered into agreements under the old rules will be affected. I do not want those people who use tax avoidance schemes to benefit from any changes. However, there may be some genuine people who should not be penalised in this way. It will be very sad if the changes that are proposed in the amendments being circulated mainly help only people who are nothing more or less than large tax avoiders. We must deplore the fact that there is such a large tax avoidance industry in Australia at the present time. In this case the firms affected by the legislation received no warning. Perhaps that situation is to be improved upon. Perhaps the Treasurer will explain further the meaning of the amendments. 
Finally there is the problem of wine stocks as they relate to section 31b. It is my judgment that the past deferred tax which is being collected due to the changes in wine stock valuations on the changes from section 31a to section 31 should not prevent wine companies from being able to take full advantage of this trading stock adjustment taxation claim. I should like to hear the Minister explain his attitude on this matter to the House later. The Income Tax (Companies and Superannuation Funds) Amendment Bill relates only to company tax payments. All in all, although the Opposition is not opposing the second reading of these Bills it is deliberately praising the measures with faint damns or rather damning them with faint praise. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman) Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Labor Opposition is not opposing the amendments at this stage. I have to put emphasis on the words 'at this stage' because, as the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Viner)  knows, the Opposition received notice of the amendments only this afternoon- in fact, since I made my speech at the second reading stage- and we have not had time to confer on the subject. We are given time by the fact that the amendments will of course be discussed in the Senate and there will be an occassion then to give a more considered opinion. But let me state as spokesman for the Opposition that I share the views of my colleagues that we do not like retrospective legislation normally, but in this case there is evidence that much of the retrospectivity would have mainly affected those who are professional tax avoiders, or quasi tax evaders, as those of us who have had some experience in the business of taxation consultancy would term them. 
It is true that the situation is changed from 2 1 April, the day on which this legislation was introduced to the House- changed by an amendment introduced 2 weeks after that date. We know that a lot of avoidance schemes, or quasi evasion schemes, as I shall call them, can themselves be retrospective. Those who have been involved in this part of tax consultancy will know that a lot of the partnership agreements that are drawn up in order to take advantage of the old section  36A  are often signed well after the event. They can be predated. Despite all the wonderful talk about trying to prove that they are made at the proper date, the  bona fide  date, say prior to 2 1 April, by an exchange of cheques, it is enormously difficult to do that proving and to ensure that those who are in the professional business of avoiding taxation which one of my colleagues has pointed out already this evening is to the cost of the rest of the community, are brought within the legislation. They will still find ways around the legislation and predate their agreements to sometime before 2 1 April. An enormous loss will accrue to revenue. 
There was a lot of merit in the legislation as the Government brought it before the House prior to this amendment. I do not ask the Committee to take my word for it. I draw attention to the speech of the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin).  He drew attention to an article in the business section of tonight's Melbourne  Herald  by the finance editor. He is not somebody who writes normally for the average man in the street but, frankly, for a lot of the people who are taking advantage of the type of loophole to which I refer. The article is headed 'Government will close tax loopholes'. The leading paragraph of the article states: 
The Federal Government has moved to close loopholes in the Income Tax Act which were being exploited by highincome earners aiming to pay virtually no tax. 
Of course I do not have time to read the whole of the article to the Committee. It is an excellent article and I commend the finance editor for having written it. I wish to quote a couple of other pertinent paragraphs. The article goes on: 
One tax expert said today the schemes had been under some pressure in N.S.W. where there has been a recent court case involving the schemes. He said it should have been obvious to anyone in the field that the loopholes were receiving serious scrutiny by the Taxation Commissioner. 'In my view, it was an artificial situation. And it was a tax rip-off,' he said. Some reports say turnover in the schemes in N.S.W.- 
This is New South Wales alone- has reached about $40m worth. 
Where money like that is flowing through a loophole it means that governments have that much less to spend on worthwhile social security programs or other worthwhile government expenditure programs or it means that other taxpayers are obliged to pay that much more. If that is the figure for New South Wales alone heaven knows what the figure is for the whole of Australia. But having said that, one recognises that even after this amendment at least some attempt is being made from now onwards to close this loophole from 2 1 April. I only ask the Taxation Office and the Government generally to pursue vigorously those other sections of the tax legislation, even if it is only the all-embracing section 260, to catch up with those charlatans who have taken advantage of section  36A.  I am glad of the following sentence in the speech by the Minister Assisting the Treasurer on this amendment. 
I would stress, however, that this decision will in no way inhibit the Commissioner of Taxation from contesting before the courts the validity under existing law of tax avoidance schemes entered into prior to 2 1 April. 
Having said that, I want to say also that a lot of genuine people were quite properly taking advantage of section 36a. Section 36a was put into the Act because of hardships caused by such a provision not being in the Act, and that applied particularly to the dissolution of partnerships on death. Unfortunately, even after these amendments are passed those people will not be able to take advantage of the old section 36a. I know the Taxation office feels that even after the changes there will be some few cases where, if I have it right, the market value would be less than the cost value. Of course, it is mainly where market value is greater than the cost value of stock that advantage could be taken by elections under 36a. Nevertheless, there are some cases of which one knows where the opposite applied, and indeed situations have arisen where market value has been less than cost value. If one then has to take the lower market value and losses are made: one cannot take advantage of the rebates in the individual tax returns of the partners in the partnership. Tax advantages, genuine tax benefits, are thus lost to taxpayers, and that is a pity. 
In speaking to these amendments on behalf of the Opposition, we believe that the law should be drawn in terms whereby genuine people are still allowed to take advantage of the old section 36a while the charlatans are stopped from doing so. The Opposition has not had time to pursue this to see whether clauses could be written into the Bill in substitute for the ones which the Minister has brought to the Chamber tonight in order to achieve just that advantage. It is an equivocal answer that I give on behalf of the Opposition because we have not had time to study the matter in depth, but I hope that in what I have said I have at least given an attitude. I suggest that there is still time to explore further the possibility of moving amendments in the Senate and then in this Chamber which would give the advantages of the old section 36a to genuine people but at the same time not allow the terrible loopholes which have existed and of which advantage has been taken by the charlatans in the community. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the OECD Report on Australia was written before devaluation with only a postcript after 28 November 1976. 
Is it also a fact that the postscript, rather than endorsing the Government's policies, suggests that these policies, particularly monetary policy, will have to be adapted to the changed situation. 
If the position is as stated, does he continue to claim OECD endorsement for his Government's present policies; if so, why. 
My question to the Prime Minister is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Berowra. In addition to his selective quotations did the Prime Minister also note in the national wage judgment handed down today by  Sir John  Moore the explicit criticisms of the Government for failing to prepare properly through consultation for the so-called wages and prices freeze and for not adequately defining the concept? Did he also note the Commission's awareness that what the Government was expecting was a compulsory wage freeze but only a voluntary price freeze? In view of this will the Government use the good offers of the Commission made again today by  Sir John  Moore to institute further essential consultation? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Is it a fact that- 
overseas residents who derive incomes in Australia on which they pay Australian income tax are also obliged to pay the Medibank levy if they are not contributors to a recognised Australian health insurance fund; 
if overseas residents are only temporarily overseas, then they are entitled to receive the same rebates relating to medical and hospitals claims as any Australian resident whether or not the medical and hospital charges are incurred in Australia or abroad; 
if overseas residents are more permanently overseas, then they are not entitled to medical or hospital rebates; and 
if overseas residents pay income tax in the overseas country of their residence and that country has a double tax agreement with Australia, then they get a credit for the income tax paid in Australia but not for the Medibank levy which they are obliged to pay. 
If so, will the Government give consideration to including clauses obliging overseas countries to give credits for the Medibank levy in future double tax agreements for those more permanent overseas residents who are unable to obtain hospital and medical rebates in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 10 March 1 977: 
1 ) Did Australia undertake at the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in May 1975, that it would give Mozambique economic aid to help it apply for United Nations sanctions against Rhodesia? 
If so, and as Mozambique has now announced that it will apply for United Nations sanctions against Rhodesia, what  steps is the Australian  Government taking to implement its pledge? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
1 ) Did he say in a speech to the House on 1 5 March 1 976 that there is a discrepancy between the figures prepared by the Commonwealth Employment Service and those published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
Did the CES have 304 000 persons registered as unemployed at the end of February 1976, and did the Bureau estimate the number of unemployed as being between 309 500 and 3 14 500 during the same month. 
Does this mean that in February 1976 the CES figures underestimated unemployment. 
If not, what is the explanation of the difference. 
Are the CES figures for registered unemployed or the Bureau quarterly labour force survey figures, the most statistically reliable indicator of the level of unemployment in Australia. 
-The Labor Opposition proposes to move an amendment to the motion that Supply Bill (No. 1 ) be read a second time. 
The Fraser Government has now been in power for 18 months. According to the rules it lived by in Opposition, it should be ready now to face the people at an election. The conservative Parties thought that the Labor Government's performance should be subject to electoral scrutiny every 18 months. Surely they should not object to their own performance being so judged. In May 1974 Labor was forced to an election because the conservative Parties judged its economic performance to be inadequate. This was half way through the normal parliamentary term. In December 1975, 18 months later, Labor was again forced to an election- again half way through a normal parliamentary term. The Liberal and National Country Parties justified this again on the grounds that Labor had failed in economic management and that a change of government was necessary to prevent a fall into deeper recession. 
We are now half way through another normal parliamentary term and trends in the economy are worse now than 18 months ago. The present Government's policies have clearly been inadequate. Unlike Labor our opponents have not had to contend with a deepening world recession. Unlike Labor they have not had to contend with import prices rising at annual rates in excess of 20 per cent. But still the economy has deteriorated. Inflation and unemployment are both worse now than when Labor's policies were influencing the economy. All sections of the community have urged the Government to change the direction of its economic policies. Yet the Government remains inflexible. Its rigidity, its doctrinaire obsession with cutting back government spending, threatens to plunge the economy deeper into recession. 
If the Government is so sure it has the right policies then let it put them to the test. Let it face an election on them. The Australian Labor Party is convinced that the electorate has recognised that the present Government does not have the answer to our economic ills and that when Labor was in power forces beyond the control of domestic policy instruments were responsible for many of our economic problems. We are confident that the Government has destroyed the myth of its prowess as an economic manager. Its ineptitude has been plain for all to see. If given the chance the people would reject this Government's economic policies. One has only to examine the latest poll published in the  Bulletin  this week to come to this conclusion. This is an appropriate time to compare the state of the economy now with the position when Labor's 1975-76 Budget policies were still influencing it. In the December quarter of 1975 gross non-farm product rose by 0.2 per cent. In the March quarter of 1976, when the Hayden Budget was still a dominant influence, non-farm product rose by 2 per cent. In the December quarter of 1976 when the conservatives' Budget had begun to bite, gross non-farm product fell by 1 .3 per cent. 
The unemployment figure in January 1976 was 345 000 or 5.6 per cent of the work force. In January 1977 it was 10 000 higher at 355 000 or 5.83 per cent of the work force. The labour market has continued to deteriorate in the last 3 months. In February unemployment was 43 000 higher than 12 months earlier. In March it was 53 000 above the level of the previous March and by April it had reached 55 000 above that of April 1976. This displays a clear worsening trend, in contrast to the improvement in the job outlook evident under the policies of the last Labor Budget. Even the deliberate use of increasing unemployment as a weapon against inflation has not met with marked success. In the year to March 1977 consumer prices rose by 13.6 per cent; in the previous 12 months they rose by 13.4 per cent. This Government has been eminently successful in prolonging high levels of unemployment when comparable countries have seen unemployment falling. In these circumstances it would have been reasonable to expect continued recession to have a downward influence on prices. But so far any effect of this kind has been offset by incompetent decision making in other areas. Changes in health insurance arrangements for example added 3.2 per cent to consumer prices in 1 976. Devaluation will add at least 4 per cent in 1977. The Government's handling of the economy has been so inept and inconsistent that the unemployed do not even have the dubious consolation that their suffering has been part of an effective plan to get inflation down. 
In summary we see that after 18 months of Liberal-National Country Party Government the economy, in terms of trends in growth, in levels of unemployment, and in movements in consumer prices, is in worse shape than after Labor's second 18-month term. Couple this with the substantial erosion of living standards which has occurred in recent times and surely, according to the conservatives own rationale, this 
Government should be forced to an election. But it will not be because the Senate, for all the posturing of some, is not a States' House or a community House but nothing more nor less than a party political House. The Bills we are at present debating highlight the central contributing factor this Government has made to worsening the unemployment position in Australia. The Supply Bills appropriate funds- in other words make funds available- for the carrying on of the functions of Government until after the Budget Appropriations are passed. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  cautioned us not to draw any conclusions from them regarding Budget outlays. But the tenor of his second reading speeches has left few of us without the impression that the Government will rigidly adhere to ill-conceived notions of further reducing government spending. Actually both of the Minister's speeches on the Supply Bills were in many ways fine examples of fascinating misrepresentation- a vice paraded as a virtue. 
We were told that the total appropriations in both Supply Bills had virtually not been increased on last year's amounts despite substantial price increases in that period. This can only herald a further onslaught on public expenditure and consequently further rises in unemployment. I fail to see the virtue in this course of action. But this is typical of this Government. I can imagine the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  entering the next election campaign and telling the electors: 'My Government has been unable to solve the problem of inflation, we have caused unemployment to rise substantially but you must vote for us because we have cut public expenditure and we have cut the deficit'. This Government cannot distinguish between its instruments of economic policy and its goals of policy. The economy will lie in its present morass at the bottom of the trough until the Government makes positive use of the public sector. 
This is an appropriate time to illustrate the error of the Government's approach by examining just what is this deficit the Government is always trying to cut. Let us assume we are in a period of normal economic activity and the Government Budget is balanced. Suppose from this position the economy moves into a slump, that is, unemployment rises and output falls. This slump would mean, for example, that taxation receipts would fall and unemployment benefit payments would rise. This would mean that the previously balanced Budget would then be in deficit without the Government having increased its expenditure levels. If the government then reacted to the deficit by cutting its expenditure, it would lower the overall demand for goods and services in the economy, putting more people out of work and widening, not reducing, its deficit. 
This in simple terms is what the Australian Budget deficit reflects. It reflects the decrease in tax receipts and the increase in welfare payments arising out of a recession. With a return to higher levels of employment the deficit would be eliminated. Countries like the United States of America, Japan and West Germany used this approach to wind back large budget deficits. Wrongly we are not doing so in Australia. In December 1975 even the present Prime Minister recognised the logic of such an approach.  His  election campaign speech contained an assurance that the deficit would be reduced by achieving high levels of economic growth. However, since that time good sense has been subsumed beneath a doctrinaire bent for destruction of the public sector. 
The concept of a full employment Budget deficit is used by economists to estimate how much of a particular Budget deficit is a result of lost revenue and increased expenditure due to recession and how much is due to governments increasing their real share of an economy's resources. In the edition of the  Australian Economic Review  for the first quarter of 1 976, Barton, Derody and Sheehan published estimates of the full employment Budget position for the Australian economy. That firm concluded that for the financial year just about to end, an actual Budget deficit of $3,200m would be equivalent to a Budget surplus of about $705m. The actual budget deficit for the year 1976-77 will be somewhat less than $3,200m. Therefore it will probably be equivalent to a full employment surplus of something of the order of $ 1 billion. Looked at in this light, the Budget deficit is seen for what it is- a product of recession, not an indication of the government sector taking more and more resources from the private sector. 
It is interesting to note that the present Government and the Treasury refuse to enter into any sort of debate on the subject of the full employment Budget position. Questions from members of the Opposition on this topic have been paid scant regard. I pay tribute to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who also is drawing attention to this point. I repeat that questions from him and us have been paid scant regard. I suppose that this is little more than one would expect. In the United States full employment Budget positions are prepared as a matter of course. 
The Government's preoccupation with cutting public expenditure stems partly from its incorrect assessment of the role that public expenditure played during the years of the Labor Government. It was easy for the then Opposition to blame public expenditure increases for many of the economic problems of that time. It fitted in so well with its ideology. Its assessment, of course, was quite wrong. Far from causing our economic recession, the levels of public expenditure used by the Labor Government when the world recession overtook us prevented our problems from being much worse than otherwise they would have been. 
I have pointed out many times in this House that Australia's overall economic performance during, for example, 1 975 was better than that of many comparable overseas countries. It would not be out of place to say so once again tonight. During 1975 the non-farm gross domestic product in Australia rose by 0.4 per cent. At the same time in 7 major Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development countries it fell by an average of 1.3 per cent. That comparison puts the performance of the Australian economy into proper perspective. It was not good, but without the actions taken by the Labor Government it would have been much worse. 
When the present Government came to power it said that it would reduce the size of the public sector to make way for the private sector. This approach neglects the interaction between the public and private sectors and, as I demonstrated earlier, was totally unnecessary as the public sector was in no way crowding out the private sector. What did happen when the public sector demand began to fall in real terms was that the total demand fell and the private sector found less reason to expand production. 
Assuming an implicit deflator for government expenditure of approximately 16 per cent for the 1976-77 financial year, the real level of Budget outlays for this financial year is over 4 per cent lower than for the previous 12 months. That is an astounding figure. At a time when Australia is close to the trough of the longest recession since the war the Government is reducing demand even further by cutting back on public sector outlays. All the major OECD countries continue to use expanding real government outlays to facilitate economic recovery in their countries. Just recently France announced major new employment creating schemes. We all know that the United States is using these policies. Japan and West Germany are in the same category. 
It is interesting to note that this time last year the Treasurer was keen on telling us that all OECD countries were following the same policy line as his Government. He no longer does that. This is probably as close as we will get to an admission that it was not true 12 months ago, just as it is not true now. OECD countries did cut back the rate of growth of public outlays as they came out of the recession, but they never cut back their real levels of public outlays to get out of the recession as we are doing now or seeking to do. 
The greatest impact that government spending cuts have had in raising unemployment has been through cuts in capital works. The real growth of fixed capital expenditure by government was slashed by 8.4 per cent in the 4 quarters to the end of 1976. That directly depressed the building and construction industry and forced unemployment to rise. Even one of" the arch proponents of the Government's line on the economy, Philip Shrapnel and Co. Pty Ltd, found the Budget cuts in capital expenditure to be 'major errors of economic management'. Of course, cutting back capital works has long term as well as short term adverse effects. It delays badly needed improvements in the nation's infrastructure. That indirectly reduces the efficiency of the private sector. 
It appears that the Government has not learned from its previous errors. In his second reading speech on the Supply Bill (No. 2) the Treasurer expressed great satisfaction with the fact that the capital works and services allocation was some 9 per cent below that in the corresponding Bill last year. If the reduction in the appropriation means a further reduction in capital works in the next 5 months it will be catastrophic for the economy. How the Treasurer can make a virtue out of that is beyond my comprehension and the comprehension of my colleagues on this side of the Parliament. Fears are already being expressed in the building and construction industry that capital works will be cut further in the Budget. These Bills must surely heighten those fears. 
It is interesting to note that despite the Government's denigration of the role of public sector spending, government consumption expenditure is at the moment preventing the economy from going even deeper into recession. The December quarter national accounts reveal that in the last quarter of 1976 government consumption expenditure rose by 5.8 per cent. This was almost 4 times the rise in private consumption expenditure and much higher than in any quarter during Labor's second term of office. 
The important point is that without this high level of government consumption the fall of 1.7 per cent in gross domestic product would have been much worse. The danger sign for the future is that the high figure was due only to a fortuitous bunching of government payments and given the Government's stated intentions will not be repeated. With one of the major growth areas in the December quarter removed the outlook for future performance is not bright. 
The Government still preaches that further government spending cuts are required if inflation is to be reduced. Yet the Government's actions in cutting expenditure have been clearly unsuccessful in reducing inflation. The Treasurer delights in referring to a fall in the underlying inflation rate. What he does is remove all the policy errors made by his Government- the Medibank charges and the effects of devaluationand then he argues that if his Government had not made those mistakes inflation would now be lower. With that proposition one can agree. If those errors had not happened inflation would be lower. But one cannot ignore the errors. One cannot ignore the increased hospital charges. One cannot ignore devaluation. So all this talk of underlying rates of inflation reducing is sheer bunkum. What I would add is that spending cuts have had no influence on the inflation rate. All they have done is cause unemployment to rise. 
But what of the future? Clearly the Government must abandon its policy of using high levels of unemployment to reduce inflation. Such a policy is morally indefensible and has been spectacularly unsuccessful. At the recent economic summit the participants rejected unemployment as a weapon against inflation. This Government must do likewise. The Government must change the stance of its economic policies. All sections of the community have urged change upon them. The outlook for recovery is dull. The prospect of a consumer revival retreats as each month without adequate government action passes. The prospect of an early increase in consumer spending declined further with the Arbitration Commission's decision to discount devaluation effects from the consumer price index for wage fixation purposes. If it continues with this policy real wages will decline by about 4 per cent more than they would have during 1977. The Arbitration Commission has been placed in an invidious position. It has been forced by the Government to take the responsibility for bringing about the income redistribution the Government intended through its devaluation decision. The wage and salary earners of Australia should be aware that it is the Government that is directly responsible for the fall in real wages they will experience if they are not recompensed for devaluation price rises. I said at the time of the Government's decision to devalue that all Australians apart from mining companies had a right to be angry at devaluation. Now ordinary Australians will feel its effects as their living standards are further eroded. The Government's broken promise over tax indexation is another measure which will militate against an early increase in consumer spending and hence an early fall in unemployment. 
I mentioned earlier that the Government has been urged to change the course of its economic policies by all sections of the community. Labor and Liberal Premiers and even National Country Party Premier Bjelke-Petersen have all urged a change in approach. The Bank of New South Wales, once the stoutest defender of the Government line, has suggested the deficit be increased. The  President  of the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation has called for tax cuts and a selective increase in government expenditure. The Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research at Melbourne University has put forward a plan which not only calls for a much larger deficit but also explains how this can be achieved while the rate of inflation is significantly reduced. The support for an approach such as has been proposed by the Labor Opposition increases in strength. Yet the Government is intransigent. It confuses rigidity and inflexibility with firmness. It is so preoccupied with reducing public spending that it has forgotten how much suffering this recession is causing Australians. The social and economic costs of continuing high unemployment threaten to cause permanent damage to the community and the economy. It is for this reason that I have the understandable duty to move, on behalf of the Labor Opposition, the following amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House, noting the failure of the Government's economic strategy, condemns its rigid resistance to feasible and constructive alternatives such as cutting indirect taxes and initiating selective stimulatory spending '. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bourchier)  adjourned. 
I wish to explain that the fact that the Opposition did not call for a division on the motion for the second reading of this Bill does not mean that it is in favour of this Bill. The voices saying 'No' were loud and the intention to oppose the Bill was there; but, as the session is drawing to a close and there is an enormous amount of legislation to be dealt with, the Opposition has agreed to abide by the wishes of the Government to spend time in debate on this and the next measure before the House rather than in division. I wish to have that put on the record. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I ask the Treasurer whether he is aware that at 2.15 p.m. on 4 November last year, before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission at the national wage case arising out of the September quarter consumer price index,  Mr Morling,  Q.C., on behalf of the Australian Government, said: 
Before the adjournment His Honour Justice Robinson asked me whether I could inform the Bench as to whether the Medibank components of the December consumer price index would be removed from calculations determining the tax indexation adjustment to take effect as from 1 July 1977. The answer is no to that question. 
When did the Fraser Government change its mind on this question and break another promise? Was the Commission informed or has it yet been informed of this change of policy? If not, is it a fair assumption that wage and salary earners have been granted by the Commission less than would otherwise have been determined because of this deception? 
-The Opposition opposes this Bill. It is part of what I can only describe as a sham, a continuing charade, to which the Government likes to refer as its new federalism policy. That policy is supposed to bring about a new spirit of harmony and cooperation in Federal-State relations; but, as we have seen from a number of telexes that have been sent to the Commonwealth Government today, it is a policy that threatens acrimony and distrust. Last year when the Government introduced the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill the Opposition moved for its withdrawal on the ground that it had objectionable features that had been incorporated against the wishes of the States. That amendment, which was moved during the second reading stage, was a wise one, as we have seen from the developments that have taken place since then. The Bill now before us compounds the follies of the sections of the original Act. Those follies gave rise to our original attitude. The Bill that we are debating tonight has been introduced contrary to the express wishes of the Premiers of the smaller States, as I will show as my speech progresses. 
Before detailing the Opposition's specific objections to this Bill, I want to make it known to those who have not had time to study it that the Bill contains an amendment to the original States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act. I want to make a few general comments about the income tax sharing arrangements that are at the heart of what 1 call this sham of new federalism. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  made much in his second reading speech of the present financial position of the States. He suggested that the States were in a healthy financial position. I must admit that the relevance of the Budget positions of the States for less than three-quarters of last year- indeed, from my memory of the Treasurer's second reading speech, it was for just two-thirds of the year, as I think he drew attention to figures for 8 months of the year- escapes me. Those of us who specialise in financial management know that one cannot look at a picture over 8 months and draw conclusions for the full year, because the revenue coming into a government is not even and the expenditure going out from it also is not even. So, it really was a red herring for the Treasurer to draw any conclusions from the Budget positions of the States over 8 months. But that is what he did in his second reading speech on this Bill. A true indication of the States' positions can be ascertained only after the expenditure and revenue items for the whole year are considered. 
Be that as it may let us look at the overall financial position of the States under the new federalism policy compared with what it would have been under the Labor Government's formula that was operating prior to the new federalism policy taking over. Page 20 of the Budget Paper on payments to or for the States reveals that the new personal income tax sharing arrangements will give the States $3,7 16.2m in 1 976-77. That is an increase of only $89m over the $3,626.8m they would have received if the old formula had been applied. That takes no account of what are known as the above formula grants that were made so often under the old system. I am not talking about a system that obtained only under the Labor Government. I am referring to the system that obtained under previous Liberal-National Country Party governments as well. We all remember that during the financial year, particularly in April, there were additional Premiers Conferences and Loan Council meetings at which the States often were given  ad hoc  extra payments to help them with particular programs. So, one cannot look just at the annual appropriation to or for the States under the new federalism formula and compare it with what the States would have received under the old formula. One has to make a study of just what would go to the States not only under the new federalism formula but also in the above formula grants. 
As I have said, this new arrangement takes no account of those above formula grants. Indeed, if one gives proper consideration to what was being paid to the States previously one will find that in general revenue appropriations very little more is going to the States now under the new federalism policy than was previously the case. But that is only part of the story, because what also goes to the States- this was especially so in the time of the Labor Government- are what are known as specific purpose grants. They have been cut drastically under this Government. The long and short of it is that the amount that is going to the States is very much less now than it was prior to this Government coming to office. Overall, the States are very much worse off under the new federalism policy than they were previously. That has resulted in the States being forced to increase their charges, which increases have been fed into the consumer price index, compounding our economic problems.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  from the experience you have had in this House you would know that the feeding of these increases into the consumer price index, particular at a time of wage indexation, has meant all sons of compounding problems. 
Of course, when one examines the funds that are being made available to the States for capital purposes one finds the real effect that the new federalism policy is having on the States and, indeed on the economy at large. In the 1976-77 financial year the total general purpose capital funds to the States were 5 per cent above the 1975- 76 level in money terms, which represents a decrease in real terms of almost 10 per cent. When one is confronted with figures such as those it is easy for one to see what the new federalism policy is doing to our country. It is simply a device for cutting back the funds available to the public sector. Consequently, in the present economic situation it is a device for causing substantial rises in unemployment. 
For all the shifting that went on during question time today and last Thursday on the part of the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay),  we have found that he has been properly put in his place by his own political colleagues. It has been pointed out to him so clearly that the construction industry in this country is on its knees at the moment and that there is enormous capacity in that industry. Its plight is so much due to the fact that this Government is not making available funds from the public sector not only for employment in the public sector but also for employment in the private sector, because the private sector relies so heavily on contracts with the public sector for the necessary employment opportunities to be created. When we look at the causes of the record unemployment that exists in this country at present we must look to measures such as the so-called new federalism policy as a cause of that unemployment. 
Let me turn my attention to the specific purposes of this Bill. The Bill empowers the Treasury to refer the question of State relativities to the Grants Commission and provides some guidelines to the Grants Commission. The basic problem of the proposition contained in the Bill is that it runs directly counter to the expressed wishes of the States. If we go back to the arrangements for stage 1 of new federalism as outlined in the Budget document entitled  Payments to or for the States and Local Government Authorities  1976- 77we  find that point ( 1 7) states: 
There will be a periodic review of relativities between all States, advice in relation to this review being sought from an independent review body . . . 
Point (35) further mentions a review of the taxation sharing arrangements as a whole and in part states:   . . arrangements will be made for the Commonwealth and State governments to agree, well in advance of the review, on the procedures which are to be followed in connection with it. 
Let me just repeat that the promises relating to new federalism made in the Budget Papers and in subsequent documents were that the Commonwealth and State governments would agree well in advance of the review on the procedures which are to be followed. On page 1 9 of the same 
Budget paper a reference is made to point (17) of the stage 1 arrangements in the following terms: 
One matter still to be settled is whether the independent review body should be the Grants Commission or some other body. 
It is obvious in the document from which I have quoted that the Commonwealth had led the States to believe that the independent review body did not have to be the Grants Commission. The Commonwealth promised to reach agreement with the States. It has obviously not done so. We learned that from this Bill. We learned that, as I will show as my speech progresses more and more, from the reactions of the 4 smaller States to what has gone on and what is proposed in this Bill. 
Perusal of the Premiers Conference transcripts which have become available demonstrate the reservations 2 States had about the Grants Commission. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  promised to reach what he called an amalgam of State and Commonwealth views. He is obviously determined that the undertaking should be ignored. The Commonwealth has arbitrarily imposed its will on the States. Yet we hear noises from Government supporters, particularly the noisy ones, suggesting that it is a States' rights measure  vis-a-vis  some mythical centralist policy that exists elsewhere. This is the mouthing of sheer nonsense which so often emanates from the other side of the House. 
Let me repeat: This Bill goes against any such States' rights philosophy. I am not going to suggest that I will expound in such simple terms States' rightism versus centralism because I want to show that I have looked at these things in a rather deeper form than just mouthing those shibboleths. I am going to throw at Government supporters the charge that they are the ones who mouth these meaningless phrases, and yet they come up with propositions such as the one we are now debating which do not go one inch of the way towards fulfilling their promises. 
The Bill was introduced without consultation with the States. It is obviously to the detriment of the smaller States. I know now that several Premiers attempted today to get the Government to withdraw this Bill. The States' Opposition to this Bill is simple and quite straightforward. The States do not wish the body that hears their appeals when they claim to be disadvantaged by relativity decisions also to determine those relativities. Let me repeat that because I do not think it is understood by some Government supporters in the House at the moment. The States do not want the body that hears their appeals as to whether they are to be claimant States-that body hal traditionally been the Commonwealth Grants Commission- to be the one which decides the relativities which give rise to their particular claims. Obviously if the relativities are unfair and the State of, say, Tasmania wants to go to the Grants Commission to get more funds, it will be appealing against a decision which has already been made by that same body. How many people or bodies in our community want to change the decisions that they have already made? It is, as one Premier stated in a letter, a case of Caesar appealing to Caesar. 
-It is interesting to hear the honourable member for Kalgoorlie say that what I am saying is nonsense, because I will quote what his own Premier had to say as recently as today on the same subject I look forward to the honourable member still being in the House when I quote  Sir Charles  Court to him in just one moment. 
The opposition of the smaller States is quite understandable. I repeat: For the Grants Commission to uphold their appeals as claimant States it would virtually have to admit that it had made an error in originally determining the relativities. I do not even have to quote what has gone on today from the telexes that have shot around this country. Let me quote from the Premiers Conference when the position was made clear by the Premiers of the smaller States who were, I might add, supported by the Premier of New South Wales. The Premier of South Australia said: 
The purpose of the Grants Commission is to look at a disability grant on the basis of an application by a State which considers that it is under a disability. It has established a long tradition or mode of dealing with applications of that kind. It is quite different really from a review of the present distribution of basic financial assistance grants between the States. I believe we ought to keep them separate and we ought not to be trying to read in some appeal from Caesar to Caesar. 
At the Premiers Conference the Premier of Western Australia pinpointed the problem of asking the Grants Commission to review its own decisions when he said: 
If a State seeks to become a claimant State, and if that decision is accepted by this meeting you are put in the position of going back to exactly the same people to try to convince them that they made a mistake. Human nature being what it is, people usually do not admit to mistakes. 
The States' position is clear and defensible. The Commonwealth on the other hand seems simply bent on removing the concept of a claimant State. Despite the attitudes expressed by the 
States at the Premiers Conference and the promises of further consultation the Federal Government has moved unilaterally to impose its own will on the States. I use the word 'unilaterally' advisedly because from what I hear  Mr BjelkePetersen,  the Premier of Queensland, is pointing this out in no uncertain terms. I had the benefit of being briefed on his view of this matter and I say for the benefit of the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson),  who is present in the House, that the Premier from his own party is equally against this measure as indeed are the Liberal Premier of Western Australia and the Labor Premiers of South Australia and Tasmania. So much for the co-operative nature of the new federalism. 
The States have gone as far as actually proposing how an independent body to review relativities should be constituted. They suggested a body consisting of a chairman nominated by the Commonwealth, 2 members with practical experience in government finance to be nominated by the States and a member of the Grants Commission to be proposed by the Commonwealth after consultation with the State governments. It is only today that I learned the details of the alternative body proposed by the States. I was very gratified to see that the States were suggesting that a member of the Grants Commission should be a member of that alternative body of four to decide on the relativities. The Federal Government has not adequately explained why it rejects such a body. All the Treasurer has told us in his second reading speech to this Bill is that his Government does not accept the proposition or the arguments put forward by the States. But he did not outline what those arguments were nor, more particularly, did he give us a detailed exposition of why he disagreed with those arguments. It is difficult to take seriously the Treasurer's contention that setting up a new body would be wasteful duplication now that we know that that body would be built on the Grants Commission. I venture to say that not only would one of the 4 representatives be a member of the Grants Commission but also the body should and could and would use all the information available to the Grants Commission. 
I can see no reason why the Grants Commission could not act as a secretariat for that body. In my view it would not be a costly separate body to set up. After all, the Fraser Government has proposed the setting up of 6 State grants commissions to administer funds to local governments. This proposition of merely setting up this small committee of four would be far less wasteful than the previous proposition which unfortunately this House has already adopted of 6 separate State grants commissions in addition to the already existing Commonwealth Grants Commission. In relation to 7 State grants commissions, it is hardly an excuse for a Treasurer who is so responsible to say that it was a matter of costs which prevented him accepting the proposal of the majority if not the totality of the States that there should be this committee of four to determine the relativities between the States. 
The fears expressed today by the Premiers of the smaller States certainly have substance. Premiers Neilson of Tasmania, Bjelke-Petersen of Queensland,  Sir Charles  Court of Western Australia and  Mr Don  Dunstan of South Australia whose views cross the political spectrum have all had something to say on this subject today. They do not want the situation where Caesar is appealing to Caesar. They want the Grants Commission to be the body to continue with its present task. They want it to be the body to which they appeal when they want to become a claimant State. They do not want to be appealing against the Grants Commission's own previous decision when they decide they want to be a claimant State. Another small body, as I have said, with perhaps the Grants Commission acting as its secretariat and providing a lot of information could easily fulfil that function. It is generally accepted that Western Australia would be significantly worse off than it is now if there were a straight relativity arrangement. Tasmania and South Australia would no doubt lose the temporary benefits which those States now enjoy because of good management of their railways agreements. This would be the case unless specific guidelines are put in the review reference. 
It is difficult to imagine this Government, for political reasons, overturning a recommendation from the Grants Commission penalising the smaller States for such agreements as the railways agreements, even though the Treasurer suggests in his second reading speech that such an event would be possible. However, given the lengths to which this Government has gone in an attempt to renege on the railways agreements, makes such an event highly doubtful and improbable. The Fraser Government wants to penalise the governments of South Australia and Tasmania. I have already referred to the fact that, by interjection, the Liberal Party member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  suggested he did not want to support his small State in the matter which is before it. He would be going against the wishes of the Premier,  Sir Charles  Court. I have already mentioned the honourable member for 
Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  in Queensland. I hope that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  will not be seen to be against the wishes and the benefits of the vast majority of Tasmanians by suggesting that he will support this Bill. 
We have reached the point where the Federal Government has introduced a piece of legislation which vitally affects the States and which has been rejected by four of them. If there is any truth in the assertion that the Senate is a States ' House, now is the time for it to act. I understand that the Premiers of the States opposing this Bill have asked for the support of their senators. At the moment it would appear that the only prospect of the small States not being saddled with something they regard as severely disadvantaging them is for their senators to act as State senators rather than as party representatives. So we will see how true some of them are to the lip service they pay to the Senate being a States' House. For the constitutionally minded senators it is worth recalling that it requires the opposition of only 3 States to defeat a referendum proposal. In the case of this Bill it would require the opposition of only 4 Government senators from one State, or one Government senator from each of 4 States, for a proposition such as that contained in this Bill to be defeated. 
The Bill may be a small one but it is important. We of the Opposition have not had long to study it. I must confess that my main opposition to it is that it is part of that sham which is called new federalism. But I have had long enough to study the opposition of 4 States and the telexes which have come from their Premiers. I shall quote from a telex. I have an example here from  Sir Charles  Court and it is now on public record. It states: 
I have sent a telex to the Acting Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  asking that the legislation on tax sharing be postponed until the Commonwealth proposals can be discussed at the next Premiers Conference on July 1. 
I have expressed my disappointment to the Prime Minister that the Commonwealth has made a unilateral decision on the appointment of the Grants Commission to carry out the review of stage one tax sharing entitlements. 
That is an example of the views of the Premiers. I could quote from a joint statement by the Premiers of South Australia and Tasmania on exactly the same subject. I have also had the advantage of being briefed on the views of the Premier of Queensland on this subject. We know enough about this Bill, even though I have not yet had time to take it to the Party room leave alone study it for the length of time I would normally like, to know that it certainly could be delayed. The best means we can use are to oppose the Bill at this stage to show our objection to it. This concept should put to rest for ever the deception of the Fraser Government that it is a States' rights government. Of course this Bill shows that stand to be nonsense. It shows it to be the sham that it is, just as the whole concept of new federalism is a sham. I repeat that the Opposition is opposing the Bill in this House. After more consideration it is more than likely that Australian Labor Party senators will move appropriate amendments if and when this Bill reaches the Senate. However, I still hope that consideration of the Bill will be adjourned while the views of the States are taken into consideration. In the meantime I announce the Opposition's decision to oppose the Bill. 
-The Opposition is also opposing this Bill. In the Opposition's view, it is simply another device which the Government has introduced and which reneges on an election promise. The people of Australia were promised full tax indexation by the Fraser Government when it was in Opposition. The promise of the Liberal and National Country Parties obviously was attractive to the Australian people and would have been a significant factor in determining which way a number of people voted at that time. Those who voted for full tax indexation because they expected to get just that- full tax indexationwere duped. Last May, amid a great fanfare, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  announced that tax indexation was to be introduced in one year instead of 3 years as originally promised. When he made that announcement he claimed for his Government, to quote his phrase, 'an historic reform'. Tax indexation was to be not just another tax cut but a permanent reform that would benefit taxpayers year after year. In just 12 months that socalled historic reform has been eroded substantially. I will show that the erosion in the Bill before the House is not the only erosion that has taken place in regard to that broken promise. 
Tax indexation has become just another item in a formidable list of broken promises. I believe that I am in order in listing some of those broken promises. I honestly do not think that there is sufficient time to catalogue all of the broken promises that have been perpetrated upon us by this Government, but just for the record I will mention a few of the more obvious ones. Initially there was the promise by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that the Budget deficit would be reduced, predominantly by promoting a higher growth rate in the economy. This approach to the economy, regrettably, was shelved very early in this Government's history. That was a great pity, because that promise contained virtually the only piece of rationality about the deficit mentioned by the conservatives in that election campaign. We all know that the only answer that this Government has had to the deficit has been the slashing of government spending and that the only effect that that slashing of government spending, along with other disastrous policies such as devaluation, has had on our economy has been to bring the economy to its knees even further and to create the unprecedented unemployment that we are suffering at the present time. 
The commitments to full wage indexation and to the maintenance of Medibank also were soon abandoned. They are 2 other promises that were broken. Wage indexation had to go because it did not fit in with the conservatives' strategy of reducing real wages and forcing wage and salary earners to carry the major burden of the fight against inflation. It is interesting to note in passing that in the 12 months to March 1977 real wages had fallen when compared with the previous 12 months, but that inflation had not. Probably the most spectacular broken promise to date, however, has been the dismantling of Medibank. As honourable members know, Medibank is very appropriate to the legislation before the Chair at present. When one considers the confusion and inefficiency that have followed that decision, it is hard for me to imagine any rational reason that the Government could have had for making that policy decision or adopting that policy measure. 
-The impression that has been left is that the conservatives have dismantled the universal health scheme that was operating so successfully and have substituted for it the present unsatisfactory form of health insurance. I believe that this was done predominantly because the Labor Government set up the original scheme and the Government emotionally felt therefore that it - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! I invite the honourable member for Adelaide to return to the Bill and not to answer the unruly interjections. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I will, of course, return to the Bill. You would know that one of the main measures in this Bill is the removal of the Medibank component from the calculations in relation to tax indexation; but I agree with you that the relationship is probably tenuous. I return to the latest example of the Government's deception. When the Government brought in the so-called tax indexation it said that the consumer price index would be discounted for the effects of indirect taxes and charges for use in the tax indexation calculations. I had the honour of leading the Opposition in the debate on that subject at that time. The Opposition pointed out then that this meant that Australians in fact were not receiving full tax indexation. By putting qualifications on the extent to which taxation would be indexed, the Government left the way open for a further watering down of the proposal. That is precisely what has happened in this Bill before us tonight. 
It is worth remembering that the Government was very much aware, when it introduced the Incomes Tax (Rates) Bill 1976-that is the Bill to which I have just referred; the original Bill in which tax indexation was introduced allegedly in one year with the qualification I have mentionedthat Medibank and other health insurance charges were going to inflate the December quarter consumer price index. I would like to put that in other words to make the position clear. It was clear at the time that the Income Tax (Rates) Bill 1 976 came into this Parliament that the Medibank charges would be included in the consumer price index. One can legitimately ask why the particular changes that are being made in the Bill now before the House were not made at that time. They would have been equally wrong at that time as they are now, but I want to know why the changes were not made at that time. If the Government had been honest it would have made provision for such factors in the original Bill and it would not have attempted to get the Australian people to believe that they were going to get something that they were not going to get. The Government received much favourable publicity at the time it introduced its version of tax indexation. I wonder whether the reception would have been quite as favourable if commentators had known of the changes that were going to be made later, namely, the changes in this Bill. 
The total cynicism of the Government's approach in this matter is demonstrated by referring to page 122 of the transcript of the September national wage case. I referred to this matter at question time today.  Mr Morling,  Q.C., who was appearing for the Commonwealth before  Mr Justice  Moore and other members of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, was asked by the Bench, before lunch on 4 November, whether the Medibank component of the CPI would be removed for tax indexation purposes. A specific question was put to him. I shall quote again from the transcript of the hearing on 4 November 1976. The Bench resumed after the luncheon break at 2.15 p.m. The implication of that is that there had been consultation with the Government before the answer was given. The whole implication of the way in which  Mr Morling  phrased his words was that there had been proper consultation.  Mr Morling  said: 
Before the adjournment His Honour Robinson, J. asked me whether I could inform the bench as to whether the Medibank components of the December consumer price index would be removed from calculations determining the tax indexation adjustment to take effect as from 1 July 1977. The answer is no to that question. 
I repeat that was a considered answer given immediately after the luncheon break when clearly consultation had taken place with the Government as to what the answer should be to Justice Robinson's question. This was not a vague election promise. This was a specific undertaking by a representative of the Government during a national wage case. When  Mr Morling  gave the answer I have just outlined he was, I repeat, being quizzed by the Bench over the Government's contentions in its submission that there would be a modest increase in real disposable income during 1976-77, the current financial year. Obviously the Bench was taking all possible sources of increases in disposable income into account in reaching its decision. The Bench reached its September and subsequent decisions on the assumption that wage and salary earners were to receive the benefits of tax indexation according to the rules then applying and according to the rules that  Mr Morling  outlined to it. The Government, I assert, has deceived not only the Australian people at election time and subsequently, but also the Bench on that occasion. 
I also wish to mention that it has come to my notice that when in February of this year, or it may have been early March, the Bench was considering the December quarter consumer price index, there was no mention or indication in the Government's submission that there would be anything but full indexation- not indexation qualified and discounted by the Medibank component of the CPI or indeed by any devaluation component of the CPI. 
-As the honourable member for Gellibrand points out, this was another broken promise. I draw the attention of the House to page 129 of the transcript of the December quarter national wage hearing. The calculations included in the submission from the Commonwealth Government indicated that the cost of tax indexation would be the full cost without any discounting for the Medibank component. I also draw attention to exhibit M05 attached to the transcript of that hearing which indicates the same position, namely that there was no intention at that time on the part of the Government to discount tax indexation for the Medibank or devaluation component. So we must come to the conclusion that this is a recent decision for purposes of Budget balancing, to use a convenient phrase, and I shall point out later how it is a deceptive way of increasing taxes. The only conclusion to which we can come is that by this measure the Government is increasing taxes. The ramifications of this deception could be immense. How can the Commission and the various other parties to the wage hearings have any confidence in the Government's future submissions? When the Government does not even honour its commitments to the country's wage fixing authority, how can we even believe any other promises which the Government might make to any other authority? The Government misleads the authority as well as the people. 
What will happen if the Government ever reaches the conclusion that a positive move in economic policy making would be an indirect tax cut in return for a limitation to wage rises as a trade-off? The unions, in the light of this experience, would have to suspect that the Government would not keep its ends of the bargain because, I repeat, the Government has deceived the Commission on this occasion. As well as eliminating the health insurance component of the CPI, about which I have spoken mainly to date in respect of this legislation, the Government in this Bill is also, as honourable members know, discounting the index for devaluation effects. Realistically this was only to be expected following the recent national wage decision. The Government has seized on another opportunity to attack living standards and to reduce the deficit. 
I must tell the House that in accordance with normal courtesies I was given a copy of the Bill prior to it being brought into the House. The original Bill that I received did not contain the alterations relating to devaluation. The discounting for devaluation part of the Bill is another example of a last minute conclusion. 
I have a number of objections to this proposal, not the least of which is the Opposition's objection to the Government's original decision to devalue. Although the inflationary effects of this move have been slower in affecting retail prices than was expected they will inevitably do so. They were slower because the information relating to the March quarter consumer price index was collected in the middle of February and retail sales were so sluggish that pre-devaluation prices were still pertaining in the middle of February. Therefore we have not felt in the consumer price index anything like the full adverse effects of the disastrous devaluation decision. 
By opposing the passing on of devaluation induced price rises to wages, the Government has sought further to reduce real wages and thereby to reduce the living standard of millions of Australian wage and salary earners. The wage and salary earners should realise that this drop in their real wages will occur to satisfy the Government's aims in income distribution. This Government is fonder of distributing income to mining companies away from wage and salary earners than it is in doing almost anything else. In forcing the decision to devalue on his Government colleagues the Prime Minister hoped to take income from wage and salary earners and give it to many others, including most particularly mining companies which did not need it. The recent Arbitration Commission decision coupled with this Government's taxation changes unfortunately brings us closer to the hope being realised of that transfer taking place. Its realisation will do absolutely nothing for economic recovery because it means less purchasing power in the hands of the millions of wage and salary earners who need to have that purchasing power and to use it if we are to effect economic recovery in this country and get the many thousands of unemployed back into jobs. 
One of the problems with discounting the CPI for devaluation effects for any reason is the actual estimating of the devaluation component. Distinguishing price rises due to exchange rate changes from other causes of import price rises is an exceedingly difficult, if not almost impossible, task. All estimates of such effects are subject to considerable qualification. It is of dubious worth to attempt to bring a process of such imprecision within the ambit of a tax Act and that is precisely what is happening in respect of this tax Act. It is very imprecise trying to obtain anything near a devaluation component in the consumer price index. It is regrettable that such imprecision is included in tax legislation such as the legislation we are now considering. Now that the Government has established this precedent it is open to it at any stage to find new qualifications to full tax indexation. Its so-called great reform of automatic tax indexation has been reduced to the level of a discretionary tax cut. I will grant that it is a very complex discretionary tax cut, but it is still discretionary in the way it is being effected by this Government. Next year if the Government is still overwhelmed with its Stone Age brand of economics and if it feels that it has to cut the deficit back further, no doubt it will find other factors which the Governor-General has to take into account before setting the final tax indexation figure. 
If the Government had been committed to any real principle of complete indexation, the index figure for the 1976-77 tax scales would have been greater than the consumer price index. The Government has always said that the 1975-76 CPI would have been higher without Medibank. Surely the logic which says that when health insurance charges cause the CPI to rise they have to be discounted from the index, then that same logic should also demand that when health insurance charges limit the rise in the CPI, those charges should be added to the index. I repeat that point and remind the House that in the previous financial year when the Australian Labor Party Government introduced Medibank, the Medibank levy was substituting for health charges. Honourable members will remember that because of the substitution there was a beneficial effect on the consumer price index increase at that time. When tax indexation was introduced as from 1 July 1976 the figure which was used was the exact CPI figure which was less than it would have been because of the beneficial effects of transferring health insurance charges to the levy rather than it being paid to a private fund. The logic is that if we are going to discount the CPI because of health insurance charges on this occasion then at this time last year when tax indexation was introduced, the CPI component should have been larger because of the reduction which had taken place in the CPI due to the previous beneficial changes in the CPI. 
The Government's preoccupation with reducing the deficit has brought it to the point of sabotaging what it has always described as its greatest reform. We see what a subterfuge that so-called reform is. The conservatives made great promises about reducing the tax burden. But this Bill ensures that the real tax burden will increase. The economic implication of such a tax increase has to be considered. At the moment consumer demand is flat and indications are that April was a particularly bad month for retailers. This increase in the tax burden can only further erode consumer demand. Estimates of activity in the economy for the next financial year, pessimistic as they are, have been based on there being full tax indexation. These changes to the tax rates would increase real taxation by almost $145m relative to full indexation if that had been allowed. 
The Government will do nothing in this measure for economic recovery. The Treasurer argued in his second reading speech that these changes would safeguard the stimulus to activity and the consequent employment effect that devaluation was beginning to bring about. He is one of the few people who has found evidence of stimulus to activity from devaluation. Perhaps the House could be given far greater details than it has at the present time of any evidence of the stimulus to economic activity from devaluation. The Opposition was going to oppose this Bill on the grounds that it involved the breaking of an election promise and that it would militate against economic recovery. These were sufficient grounds for our opposition but now we have discovered that in introducing this Bill the Government has reneged on an undertaking given to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the matter therefore becomes significantly more serious. 
There must be trust between the wage fixing body and the Government. Any government which breaks that trust should be rebuked in the interest of all. I wonder whether this Bill would have got through the Government party room if this deception had been known at the time. I trust that it would not have done. It is not too late for the Bill to be defeated or for the Government, at this stage, to decide to withdraw the Bill. I hope if the Government, for its own strategic reasons, feels that it is necessary to go ahead with the Bill in this House, that better counsels will prevail when the Bill gets to the Senate. The Opposition opposes the Bill. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that in the national wage case, arising out of the December quarter consumer price index increase, all calculations submitted by the Government to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission relating to tax indexation were based on the assumption that there would be no discount for Medibank or devaluation? Does this not compound the misrepresentation made to the Commission in the September quarter case, to which I referred yesterday? Is it also a fact that the consumer price index increase figure on which the 1976-77 tax indexation calculation was based was reduced by health insurance charges being eliminated when Medibank was introduced? Why is tax indexation being affected adversely by health charges this year when taxpayers did not benefit last year? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1 ) Did the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries conclude that there is poor provisions of Public Libraries in Australia. 
Did the interdepartmental committee examining this report demonstrate that there was a need for a co-ordinated approach to information and library services in Australia. 
Did this interdepartmental committee at the same time recommend a freeze on public library development. 
-The Opposition does not oppose these amendments which originated in the Senate. In fact, at the time certain amendments were moved in this chamber- it was when the income tax legislation relating to the Mathews' proposals was being debated- I made the point on behalf of the Opposition that some tax avoidance schemes would still escape the provisions which were then being passed. Only within the next few days advertisements appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  which you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  probably saw but which I will read to the Committee. One advertisement stated: 
Minimise your income tax. Yes, you can. Whether you are an idividual, a company, a trust you can still benefit by belonging to a partnership using a section 36a election. Contact- 
I will not on this occasion read the name of the company. Another advertisement stated: 
The recent amendment narrows the section but does not repeal it. Time is of the essence to ensure success. 
Time was of the essence because by the amendment introduced in the Senate on 24 May at least another loophole was closed. 
Having said that, I want to repeat what I said at the time when last minute amendments were passed by this chamber relating to retrospectivity, namely, that the changes that have been made to section 36a of the Income Tax Assessment Act will cause hardship to genuine people, particularly primary producers in partnerships and particularly where a death has brought about a termination of that partnership. I should like to raise again the possibility of more sophisticated amendments than the ones brought before this chamber on the previous occasion when this Bill was before us and the ones which have been presented to us by the Senate now. I should like to see more sophisticated amendments which would still allow the benefits which were given to genuine people under section 36A but at the same time close off the great tax avoidance schemes- that is the very nicest way we can sum them up- to the ungenuine people, to those with very high incomes who are doing nothing more or less than entering into arrangements to prevent themselves paying their just taxes. Honourable members on both sides of the chamber believe in the principle that those with the ability to pay should pay. It is wrong that we should require such complicated legislation as this to close off these loopholes. 
I draw the attention of the Committee to the valuable work done by  Mr Eric  Risstrom, the Secretary of the Australian Taxpayers Association, in putting forward detailed proposals on how the Act could be amended so that the genuine people could still be allowed the benefits with the ungenuine people prevented from getting them. At this late hour I am not very keen to encourage the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Viner)  to get to his feet again, but perhaps on a future occasion when the legislation is again before the House the Minister will bring forward the sort of amendments that  Mr Risstrom  had in mind. 
I repeat that particularly where there is a death in a partnership, especially a farming partnership, now that section 36A has been removed in this way, there sometimes will be tax losses which will be passed on to individuals who will then be unable to make use of their tax rebates. I wish this particular amendment were not coming through the Committee at such a late hour and I could go into more details and explain the alternative proposals. But because of the lateness of the hour I shall merely make those few points and hope that something better, can be done in the future and that some more sophisticated amendments which will allow what I have suggested to happen will be introduced. 
I end on this note: Having suggested more sophisticated amendments, I do so with qualifications because the Income Tax Assessment Act already is a jungle. Those people who know it and try to work at it will realise that it is an impossible Act. Many hundreds of people of great ability are making livings out of finding loopholes in the Act and many other very able people are doing nothing more than seeking to plug those loopholes. When those talents could be used for a more productive purpose it is a pity that they are being used in this way. I make a suggestion that perhaps all honourable members on both sides of the chamber could think about, that is, that we should adopt a procedure which applies in Norway and, I understand, also in Italy. This is not a Labor Party policy; I am just putting forward a suggestion that honourable members on both sides should think about. I suggest that the taxable incomes of each person in this country should be available for any other person who cares to go to the Taxation Office to witness. Perhaps this would provide a deterrent to people seeking to pay less than their due desserts. We all know that if some people get away with paying less than they should, particularly the wealthy who indulge in these tax avoidance schemes, all the rest of us have to pay more if we are to obtain the same benefits. It is worth while to think about adopting such a procedure. Perhaps if our taxable incomes were available for scrutiny then such an industry, which takes up the time of so many valuable people, would not prosper in the way it does. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
What is the ' normal ' share of profits in Australian national income. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Does the OECD Report on Australia draw attention to the expected decline in real household incomes during 1976. 
Can he say how much real household incomes actually fell during 1976, taking account of the new CPI figures, which are much higher than those predicted by the OECD. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
What were the index figures each quarter since 1966-67 for the Consumer Price Index excluding government taxes and charges and Medibank effects. 
Using 1966-67 as a base, what has been the quarterly change since then in all government taxes and charges which are included in the CPI. 
3 ) What percentages of the regimen used for constructing the December quarter CPI is made up of government taxes and charges. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 29 March 1977: 
I ) What has been the level of profits, the level of national income and the proportion of the former in the latter (a) in each year since 1965-66 and (b) in each quarter since 1970-71. 
What definitions of the profit share and of national income are used in these calculations. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22 March 1977: 
What was the seasonally adjusted household disposable income in the December quarter 1976. 
When deflated by (a) the Consumer Price Index and (b) the implied deflator for private consumption expenditure, what was the percentage difference, positive or negative, when compared with (i) the previous quarter and (ii) the December quarter 1975. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 31 March 1977: 
How many overseas visits has he made since the Liberal-National Country Party Government assumed office. 
Which countries did he visit. 
What was the purpose of each visit. 
What official consultations were undertaken. 
What are the names, classifications and salaries of each member of the party which accompanied him. 
What are the names of the places visited. 
What was the cost for each member of the party for (a) travel, (b) accommodation and (c) incidentals. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 3 May 1977: 
Has an advisory committee been appointed under section 30 of the Financial Corporations Act. 
If so, who are the members of the committee, and by which organisations are they employed. 
Have there been any meetings of the committee during 1976 or 1977. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
1 ) Is Industrial Equity Limited (IEL) 'a person ' to whom the compulsory notification provisions of the  Foreign Takeovers Act  1975 apply. 
If so, (a) why have the Company's representatives claimed successfully to date the IEL has been so restructured to take it out of the ambit of the  Foreign Takeovers Act  and 
does this mean that the company has breached section 26 of the  Foreign Takeovers Act  on at least 2 occasions by virtue of its acquisition of shares in Wm Haughton and Co. Ltd. 
If the position is as stated in part 2 (b), (a) does the Treasurer propose to authorise prosecution of the company under section 26 of the  Foreign Takeovers Act  and (b) has the Foreign Investment Division of Treasury or the Foreign Investment Review Board recommended to him that action be taken against IEL. 
If a recommendation has been made in accordance with pan 3 (b), has he followed that recommendation; if not, why not. 
If a recommendation was not made in accordance with pan 3 (b), what were the reasons given for not recommending action. 
If the answer to pan 2 (b) is in the negative, (a) has the Government received any recommendations from either the Foreign Investment Review Board or Treasury's Foreign Investment Division to amend the  Foreign Takeovers Act  in order to bring foreign controlled companies that do not breach the 15 per cent or 40 per cent benchmarks set up by the  Foreign Takeovers Act  within the ambit of that legislation's compulsory notification provisions, and (b) does the Government intend to introduce such legislation; if not, why not. 
What is the ownership if IEL, and the ownership of each corporate shareholder. 
Do the words ' 1 5 per centum of the issued shares in the corporation' in paragraph 9 ( 1 ) (a) of the  Foreign Takeovers Act  refer to the dollar value of a company's issued capital or the numer of shares issued by the company. 
Does the Government consider that the ambit of subsection 26 ( 1 ) of the  Foreign Takeovers Act  is too wide; if not, why not; if so, does the Government propose to amend that sub-section. 
Has the Foreign Investment Review Board or Treasury's Foreign Investment Review Board recommended that sub-section 26(1) should be amended in order to decrease its scope. 
If not, has he or the Foreign Investment Review Board or Treasury received representations that the ambit of the Foreign Takeovers Act's compulsory notification provisions are too wide; if so, will he release those representations. 
Has the Foreign Investment Review Board advised the Government on the need for, and the scope of, a Foreign Investment Review Act as he requested in his statement ofl April 1976 on foreign investments; if so, when did it do so, and will he release that advice; if not, is the Board presently working on this matter. 
13) If the Board has not advised the Government on this matter, and is not presently working on it, why has the Board not met his request to do so. 
My question, which also is addressed to the Treasurer, is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Blaxland. I will deal with the other matter just referred to by the Treasurer at some other stage. If the Conzinc-Rio Tinto of Australia Ltd takeover of Coal and Allied Industries Ltd is now before the Foreign Investment Review Board as the Treasurer states, can he say whether the Board was properly notified prior to the purchase of shares? Is it not a fact that under section 26 of the Foreign Take-overs Act the Board is supposed to give approval prior to any shares being purchased by such a foreign company as CRA? Is that not a prima facie case of CRA being in breach of the Act if that approval was not first given? At what stage did  Sir William  Pettingell disqualify himself from this case as he must have known, as a director of Howard Smith Ltd in addition to being a director of Coal and Allied Industries Ltd- Howard Smith Ltd being a partner of CRA in this deal- of the intended purchase of shares? 
Of course,  Mr Speaker,  in making that assertion, which is the subject of this matter of public importance, I think you will agree I am taking into consideration announced policies of the Government and suggesting that other policies ought to be instituted. I can hardly fail to take into account the Budget Speech of the Treasurer last night. I hope you will allow me the indulgence of taking that into account. 
-You will concede,  Mr Speaker,  that we on this side of the House have taken into consideration the announced policies of the Government, from wherever they come, in formulating the matter of public importance which is before this House. We believe those policies fail to apply the proper prescriptions to the grave problems affecting the ailing Australian economy. The package that we know about is a cynical exercise designed, we believe, to attract the selfishness of some, even though the temporary gains of those people may be illusory. On the Government's own admission, its announced policies will not reduce unemployment. The policies we know about do nothing to ease the plight of the afflicted. They transfer resources from 'have nots' to 'haves' and increase inequalities in our community at a time when we should be building a fairer, more equitable society. We believe it is fair to say that the policies we have seen to date are political and not economic in nature and that they seek to curry favour with the Government's traditional supporters. The Government is treating the Australian people as fools in believing that it can buy their votes in the short run, assuming that our fellow citizens do not think deeply about issues and do not worry about our ailing economy, including our unprecedented rate of unemployment, and in believing that the people will not choose policies which are correct in the long run and not just temporary, mainly illusory palliatives in the short run. 
Let me spend a few minutes outlining the gravity of our economic situation and the terrible social consequences of that situation. On the figures produced by the Commonwealth Employment Service, at the end of July 338 000 Australian residents were registered as unemployed. This is 68 500 more people than at the end of July 1976. It represents 5.4 per cent of the labour force, compared with 4.4 per cent a year earlier. It is over 86 000- in fact close to 87 000- more than it was 2 years ago, at the end of July 1975, when the Labor Party was in power. It follows a disturbing trend of increasing unemployment commencing in April 1976, when the Fraser Government policies began to take their toll. It leads us to the terrible conclusion that, even without a further deterioriation in the labour market which must be expected as a result of the Budget, at least 430 000 people, or 7 per cent of the work force, will be unemployed at the end of next January. 
We must analyse the matter more deeply than this for the true picture, unpleasant though the exercise is. Commonwealth Employment Service figures do not display the full extent of the problem. We must consider also the plight of the hidden unemployed. If we just apply past percentages of total employed to total population and compare them with the present percentage we must come to the conclusion that at least another 100 000 Australian residents are out of work now, would like to be in work, but are not registered as unemployed because they have no prospects of finding a job and are not eligible for unemployment benefits, so there is no point in their registering. Incidentally, the work force figures published today by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, which reached me only in the last half hour, bears out the point about hidden unemployment which I make now. I shall outline some of the side effects of this phenomenon. Firstly, one officer of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations has estimated publicly that one in ten of the last year's school leavers went back to school because job prospects were so grim. Secondly, an Australian Bureau of Statistics labour force survey found that 30 per cent, or 72 900, of those people looking for work who were included in that survey were not registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service. That was a sample survey which once again bears out the extent of hidden unemployment. Another study to which I can point has concluded that there is structural hidden unemployment of about 150 000 people among women in country areas. 
Let me mention some of the few facts we do know about the registered unemployed, leaving aside the hidden unemployed to whom I have just drawn attention. The May figures indicate that at that time 32 1 000 people were unemployed, as opposed to 338 000 people now according to the Commonwealth Employment Service figures. At the end of May 1 14 000 persons aged 15 to 19 years were unemployed, as disclosed by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. In other words, at that time 15.2 per cent of the 15 to 19-year-olds in the labour force were unemployed. There is no reason to believe that the position is not just as bad, if not worse, now. Another vital piece of information for our analysis is that 6.8 per cent of all women in the work force were unemployed at the end of May. Further, the average duration of unemployment for all the unemployed, as disclosed by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, at the end of May was 18.3 weeks-over 4 months or a third of the year- and was getting longer. Once again using the ABS figures, at least 17 people were unemployed for every vacancy. Seasonally adjusted, unemployment was 40 000 people above the previous recorded high figure. 
That is the stark tragic picture of our economy, painted in the only terms which are meaningful and proper in terms of the effect on peoplefellow residents of this island continent of ours. The vast majority of Australians are concerned about their fellow residents- their neighbours in this society. In this context I pay tribute to the many churches in our midst which are drawing to the attention of all of us the need to forget selfishness and to concentrate on making jobs for the unemployed and to care adequately for those who are damaged by these fluctuations in our economy. But this is a humanitarian and not just a church point of view. I am just drawing attention to the fact that representatives of the churches have been doing an enormous amount of writing to me and, I believe, to other members of Parliament about this subject. I want to draw attention also to the marvellous work done by the Australian Council of Social Services in this field. 
What are the proposals that we have before us from the Liberal-National Country Party Government to tackle these grave problems? The most important feature of the proposals we know about is that they will not have an expansionary effect on our economy, designed to increase the level of economic activity. On the contrary, they will have a contractionary impact on our economy. Last year's Budget- the 1976-77 Budget- led to declining incomes and declining employment, as I illustrated earlier. The latest proposals that we know about knock that into a cocked hat. As far as we can analyse now, the latest proposals will have a further depressing effect of about 5 per cent on the Australian economy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest to the honourable member that he should not go over the line. 

 -Certainly, Mr Deputy Speaker. You will notice I have not mentioned the 1977-78 Budget. 
I second the motion. By next July the vast majority of Australian taxpayers will be worse off. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the honourable member for Adelaide be not further heard. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) What definition of the profit share was he using when, in answer to a question on 26 May 1977, he said that the profit share stood at 14.7 per cent in the December quarter 976. 
On this definition, what has been the profit share in each quarter, and in each year, during the 10 years prior to December 1976. 
Is this data published regularly. If not, will it be published automatically with the quarterly national income figures. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that by next July taxpayers with taxable incomes of $4,500 to $7,500 per annum- in other words, about 40 per cent of all taxpayers- will pay more tax under the Government's new tax system than they would have paid if the existing scales had been fully indexed, whether or not they have dependants? Is it also a fact that with family allowances, which took the place of rebates for children, heartlessly not being indexed, taxpayers with one child, on about $12,000 per annum or less, with two children, on about $13,000 per annum or less, and with three children, on about $ 14,500 per annum or less will be worse off than before by next July? How can the Treasurer honestly justify saying that the Budget charts a course to lower taxation? 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer also. Is it a fact that Budget Statement No. 4 estimates the cost to revenue this financial year of the new tax scales to be $399m- this is not the figure he has mentionedwhereas the subsequent cost to revenue correction sheet given to the Press Gallery but not to me indicated an amount of $406m? What is the cause of the difference? Assuming the amount to be about $400m, accepting temporarily all the other assumptions contained in the Budget and noting that the Treasurer did not answer the claims by the honourable member for Oxley and myself, did the Government consider using the $400m in job creation programs? Would this not have been a better option from the point of view of getting our economy going again, to say nothing of not having the unfairness of this tax system? 
-I am in sympathy with much of what has been said by the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde).  On the other hand, I am among the many who are far from happy with the statement which we are debating tonight and which was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 17 August in this House about his meeting with the Heads of Government of the Association of South East Asian Nations in Kuala Lumpur on 6 and 7 August. I am even less happy with the outcome of that meeting. The statement seems to me to be an unconvincing apology for a confrontation situation which he perpetrated and which generated, regrettably, a bad Press in Australia and, what is more important, a bad Press overseas. 
Before embarking on detailed comments on the statement I want to put an important meeting such as this one between the Prime Minister and the leaders of our closest neighbours into some sort of perspective, in fact, into a satisfactory framework. This I do in the following way: Not only does the Fraser Government not have a long term strategy for domestic recovery and structural change in Australia but also it does not have a long term strategy for improving economic relations with our trading partners. The Prime Minister has appointed a special minister to deal with the European Economic Community, a distant market with which we are basically competitive and a market of secondary importance to our major trading partner, Japan. Almost at the same time the Prime Minister set up a vague consultative arrangement for officials from ASEAN with which our future, as was said tonight by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Moore, must be increasingly intertwined. 
On finding the problems of Australian manufacturing industry difficult, the Government produces a White Paper which is essentially a justification for doing nothing. It is time that Australian trade policy was rethought as part of a comprehensive plan for the economic development of Australia. Such a plan would begin by recognising that trade is mutually beneficial. Trade allows countries to specialise in the productive activities in which they are more efficient. Government policies should be concentrated on encouraging those industries in which Australia has a comparative advantage, the areas in which Australian skills and resources can be most effectively combined. Such economic policies will enhance the well-being of both Australians and our trading partners. Such an approach is particularly obvious in the case of ASEAN because, to a considerable extent, our economies are complementary. The policy of increasing protection, which it seems to us the Fraser Government seems to be adopting, will simply contribute to entrenching a high rate of inflation and increasing the cost of production in Australia, with the result that economic recovery will be slower. An alternative commitment to specialisation, growth of industries in which Australia has comparative advantage and commitment to a gradual winding down of industries where Australia can no longer compete effectively, will lead to lower costs and faster growth. 
Much of this argument is clearcut and is widely accepted by a number of people, but there are two necessary conditions to such a policy. I hope that the honourable members for Moore and Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and others who understand these things will use their influence in the Government in relation to these two necessary qualifications. Firstly, the policy should be introduced in a planned way which ensures that while some industries are being wound down others are expanded. Secondly, generous and comprehensive adjustment assistance should be made available to the employees and to the firms in industries which are affected. We have a Budget before us with no mention of structural adjustment assistance for those industries in which, as the honourable member for Moore has just wisely pointed out to us and which I point out to the House, they are so basically needed. At present industries are declining haphazardly and the whole cost is being borne by employees and firms directly affected. This is quite unjust. It is in marked contrast to the policy of the Australian Labor Party. I shall read from a document entitled 'Labor's Proposal to get Australia Working Again' because I believe it is important. It was issued a couple of weeks ago and I read part of it into the record. It states: 
A Labor Government will co-operate with industry, labour and other bodies affected by this type of change to develop programs, providing for the re-training, reestablishment and compensation of those concerned. 
Important sections of Australian industry cannot succeed without some level of protection. This however cannot be used as a justification for any level of protection sought nor should it be used as a rationalisation to prevent critical scrutiny of protection levels. The major defect of the present system of review is that it is based on over-simplified notions of a free market economy and proceeds in isolation from a comprehensive economic strategy. Dramatic reductions in tariffs allow the marketing of cheaper imported goods, raising the consumption standards of those remaining in the workforce. But without government intervention and in the absence of greater real economic growth than we have seen in recent years this improvement is achieved at the expense of increased unemployment. 
A Labor government will take steps to integrate the development and application of a protection policy with overall indicative economic planning to ensure that, where change is desirable, it proceeds with the least disruption and the minimum of cost to those affected. In addition to job retraining, relocation and compensation for displaced members of the workforce, job opportunities must be developed in new areas in response to community needs. 
I am glad to have that in the record as a policy document from the Labor Party. Now in contrast to this planned, interventionist approach, so much part of Labor's philosophy, the Fraser Government is culpable because of its failure to introduce adequate adjustment assistance programs. Change will occur no matter what the Government does. The Government's responsibility should be to ensure that change happens in a planned way, and to ensure that anyone who is affected is generously compensated and has the opportunity for re-training to prepare to take alternative employment where this is necessary. The Prime Minister's exchange with ASEAN leaders is yet another symptom of the Government's lack of direction for the Australian economy. Our relationship with ASEAN countries could be characterised by collaboration. Instead the Government is, I believe, arrogantly intensifying division and hostility. This, I believe, is the framework in which we must view this particular meeting, the statement about which is the subject of this debate. Now let me say something in greater detail about the Prime Minister's statement and about his meeting. 
I believe the Prime Minister's meeting with ASEAN Heads of Government has increased conflict between Australia and our closest neighbours. The Government's rigidity and insensitivity have worsened Australia's foreign relations. The negativism and economic primitivism which have characterised domestic economic policy are apparently to characterise our international economic relations. The cost will be felt not only in the cooling of relations and even hostility of ASEAN countries towards Australia but also in the continuing delay in the regaining of normal rates of economic growth within Australia. I had hoped that the recent meeting with the Commonwealth Heads of Government had increased the Prime Minister's understanding of the developing countries. He said in his address to the nation after returning from that meeting: 
However important aid might be, fairer and more equitable international trade is likely in the longer term to be much more helpful . . . If we cannot achieve better trading arrangements and more stable prices at reasonable levels for the developing countries, there is going to be a great deal of disillusion. 
However, it was clearly a vain hope. There was little evidence of compromise and break-through arising from this meeting. There was plenty of evidence to the contrary. Despite recognising that trade is more important than aid, the Prime Minister offered more aid. Though even this was done in a misleading way, for the period within which it is to be given was not stated. Despite clear fore-knowledge of the wishes of the ASEAN governments, he could only offer more talks- the normal delaying tactic of someone unwilling to make a decision. 
I charge that the Prime Minister is also inconsistent. In his speech to the nation after returning from Europe he was able, unblushingly and correctly, to criticise the EEC for increasing agricultural and manufacturing protection. Yet he has claimed that Australian protection vis-a-vis Asia is justified because we have a small population. Life was not meant to be that easy. The Prime Minister neglected to mention that Australia has an average income 20 times higher than the average income of ASEAN countries, and that is a factor we must take into consideration in our planned approach to this problem. He also said that more of the aid would be given in untied form, but he did not say how much more. ASEAN countries, used to trickery with aid figures, will believe that when they see it. 
It is the two-facedness of this approach which I deplore. To justify this position the Prime Minister misleadingly quoted statistics which show how fast Australian imports from ASEAN countries have grown- at least that is what they purported to show. He chose as his base year the 1970-71 financial year when imports from ASEAN were at their lowest point. If growth over the last 10 years rather than over the last five years is calculated, the figure becomes a growth rate of 12.5 per cent rather than the 30 per cent the Prime Minister has used in many speeches. In no speech has he mentioned that Australian exports to ASEAN are more than twice as high, at $692m, as our imports valued at $3 18m in 1975-76. The fact is that Australian exports to ASEAN countries have grown faster during the last 10 years than our imports from those countries. Over the past 10 years Australia's trade imbalance with ASEAN has increased. It has grown from $84m in 1966-67 to $342m in 1975-76. It is no wonder that the statement issued after the meeting said: 
The ASEAN Heads of Government, while appreciating the domestic economic problems faced by Australia at the moment, expressed the strong wish to increase their share of trade with Australia. 
Once again, it is the lack of candour and honesty in the statement which I find appalling. It is extraordinary that the Prime Minister would sign a statement which said: 
The ASEAN Heads of Government and the Prime Minister of Australia viewed with concern the spread of protectionist tendencies in many developed countries. 
Incidentally, I have just been on a world tour and I should point out that most, if not all, of the enlightened leaders that I met around the world shared that same great concern about the protectionist tendencies of many countries at this time. It is extraordinary that the Prime Minister signed that statement while at the same time, as a matter of policy, continuing with the unsatisfactory conservative approach of past Liberal and National Country Party administrations rather than the long term planning, interventionist, assistance for structural change approach of the Labor Party which I outlined earlier. Michael Richardson was only one of a number of Australian journalists to report that 'ASEAN senior officials, especially trade officers, are known to be bitterly disappointed at what they consider to be Australia's unreasonably defensive stand at the Summit and marathon behind-the-scenes negotiations on the wording of the trade section in the joint statement'. A little more candour, a little more honesty, some hope for a changed planned approach towards tackling problems together with ASEAN countries would have avoided these strains to our relationships with our closest neighbours. 
The tragedy of this incident is that it suggests a future of increasing division between Australia and ASEAN countries. AH the fine words about aid, consultation, technical and scientific cooperation and cultural exchange are secondary to the concern of the South East Asian countries to create the conditions in which economic development is possible. For the foreseeable future economic issues will be the most important element in our relations with these countries. Even strategic factors are of less importance. The Government is creating hostility by the inconsistency of its words and its actions. Australian selfrespect depends entirely on helping to create the position in which economic development is possible. We must contribute to creating the conditions for elimination of poverty. We are in the happy position that such an approach will at the same time result in helping ourselves. 
The most disturbing feature of all this is that at no point has the Prime Minister given any indication that he understands the potential which exists for an interdependent pattern of complementary economic development and trade between Australia and ASEAN nations. This potential has been recognised by the EEC and is embodied in the Lome Convention, which was mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and which sets up concessional trading conditions between the European community and African, Caribbean and Pacific countries, and by the United States, which has special trading relations with the Latin American countries. The trade concessions which Australia has given to developing countries are small and peripheral compared with the arrangements which have been negotiated by the European and North American countries with their developing country partners. We are suffering a Prime Minister and a Government which are still harking back frustratedly to past European connections instead of properly understanding Asia. 
-We all know that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is an expert funeral director but Labor deplores the fact that he and the Fraser Government he serves have set out to bury the country people of our nation. Me thinks he doth protest far too much. Some of the aspects he mentioned were given to the country people, and the farmers in particular, by the Labor Government. I refer, for instance, to the Australian Wool Corporation, the fixed floor price for wool and so on. Look at the Fraser Government's abysmal record right now. Rather than looking at the Government's record early in its period in office, let us look at what the issues are right now. Unless the Government runs for cover because of the objections raised by those on this side of the House and others in the countryside, farmers will lose the benefits of tax averaging. 
One of the policies announced by this Government- and I know that I cannot mention the Budget,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  is: 
The tax under the averaging provisions applicable between $3,75 1 and $16,000 will be calculated at the standard rate of 32 percent. 
Under old scales applying to 30 June last, one had to earn over $17,000 a year before one reached 32c in the dollar, and averaging applied only to $16,000 anyway. Even under new composite scales- and I hope that I will be able to incorporate the scales in  Hansard- an  average tax of 32c in the dollar is only reached above $22,000. This is certainly burying the farmers. This is ruining the tax averaging system which has applied for so long. Unless our protestations bring results, which I hope they will, this is what farmers will have to put up with. When farmers have to put up with imposts like this, all country people are the sufferers. 
But let me put averaging aside. Under measures recently announced by the Government, by 1 July next there will be an increase of tax for all those whose taxable incomes are between $4,600 and $7,600. Is this not the range in which the taxable incomes of the vast majority of country people lie? It is between $88 and $146 a week. It is not only the Australian bowlers in England who are being hit to leg at this time but also the country people. I do not mention anything now about the fact that family allowances are not indexed at the same time. Many people in the countryside will be suffering from that. Family allowances took the place of rebates for children. All other rebates have been indexed. Family allowances also should have been indexed. People on taxable incomes up to $12,000 a year with one child will suffer because there is no indexation of family allowances. The country people suffer along with all others. All of this has come at a time when one Government Minister had this to say about farmers: 
Although seasonal conditions are largely unpredictable, at this stage they seem unlikely to support more than a marginal increase in the volume of farm production; if so, real farm incomes would be likely to fall somewhat. 
What hopes are there on the horizon for our agricultural industry in view of this gloomy forecast and with no help, only hinderance, in the form of terminating even tax averaging for the farming community? Does anyone expect that an external recovery in international commodity prices is just around the corner? Such a recovery would, of course, help rural incomes. Does anyone really expect that is the sort of announcement we will hear shortly? Does anyone expect results from the sorts of announcements we have had recently that increased business activity and consumer spending in Australia will increase demand for and prices of products sold mainly on the Australian market? I will come later to the point that what farmers need more than anything else is an increased level of activity within this country. 
Where is there help for the beef industry? What about some financial commitments to urgently needed beef classification? Where is there a financial commitment to this so-called Rural Bank which has been mentioned in recent announcements? I give my personal view: All the talk about that bank is a singular piece of window-dressing. What rural people want, like so many others, is access to longer term, lower interest financing. If this Government were dinkum about that it would make funds available immediately throught the Commonwealth Development Bank. Through that bank we have machinery already set up for dispensing those funds. I have yet to be convinced that there is a need for a further bureaucracy for this purpose, other than wasting time and window dressing. What about a financial commitment to the animal health laboratory in Geelong in the electorate of my colleague the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)?  What about a commitment to fuel price equalisation? The answer given yesterday during question time by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  was, to say the least, pathetic. The Government is still trying to blame the Australian Labor Party for all ills. It is time the Government realised that it has been in power for 20 months- more than long enough to implement some of its own policies. All that is wrong now can be blamed fairly and squarely on the Fraser Government and those who support it. 
In relation to fuel price equalisation, I say that the budgetary commitment to this was lifted at a time when rural incomes were far higher, relatively, than they are today. There are ways, other than taxpayers' subsidies, to bring about equalisation. The honourable member for Corio mentioned one of these. The recent Federal Conference of the Labor Party in Perth passed a resolution which I bring to the attention of the House. It stated: 
Conference recommends to the Labor Government for consideration the implementation of a uniform national wholesale price scheme for petroleum products. 
There are ways and means of distributors paying into a freight equalisation fund on an equitable basis. I hope the fact that the Labor Party has this in mind for when it takes over the reins of government, either later this year or half-way through next year, will spur this lazy LiberalNational Country Party Government into some action about the matter. 
Before I forget, I point out that there is another recently announced Government measure which also hits many people in rural industries just as it hits all other small business people whose ventures are incorporated into companies. I refer to the increase in company tax. My old friend Jim Cope, known to many in the House as the former honourable member for Sydney, pointed out to me the other day that the increase in company tax from 42.5 per cent to 46 per cent is not just a 3.5 per cent increase; it is an increase of over  S'A  per cent because it is 3.5 per cent on 42.5 per cent. So there is an increase of over 8 'A per cent in that slug. It hits many people who have rural holdings. But, over and above all this, we have the proposed increases in petrol and diesel fuel prices. These increases will add enormously to production costs, especially for the wheat growing industry. Surely some help should have been given by the Government for fuel conservation measures. Some compensation should have been paid by the Government to those hardest hit, such as people in the country. But no such measures have been forthcoming from this Fraser Government. 
In the case of wool marketing assistance, wheat industry stabilisation and land development projects, repayment of loans to the national government by those on the land will result in rural producers contributing more to consolidated revenue than they are receiving in assistance in their time of need. We in the Labor Party are aware that the wool industry is not only repaying loans but also is still contributing interest at a high rate on loans from the Australian Government. What rural people want most of all is a healthy economy and increased trade. They are hurt as much as anyone else by the growing economic stagnation. It has reached depression levels now, and I need hardly mention again the unemployment figures as one detail in this matter. Country people as well as city people are interested in Labor's alternative economic program of modest stimulatory increased spending on capital works such as water conservation measures in the countryside, expenditure on local intiative programs promoted by local councils, improving their roads and other facets of their life which result in an upgrading in the quality of their lives, in job training and in retraining programs. All of these measures will benefit enormously people in the countryside as a contrast to the neglect of the Fraser Government. When it comes to marketing schemes, I go no further than referring to  Mr Milton  Taylor, the General  President  of the United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association. He stated: 
People in rural industry had always assumed that they would get more from a Liberal-National Country Party government- but history showed that more benefits had been obtained from a Labor government than from the other side. 
What do we get instead from the Minister for Primary Industry? We get promises of better things over the horizon with the horizon never being reached. We get, if not union-bashing, threats to deport Poms. All of this is a diversionary tactic to overcome the neglect of the Liberal-National Country Party Government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
1 ) Is the deflator for defence expenditure during 1977-78 expected to be 6.4 per cent. 
Is the implicit deflator for all public expenditure during 1977-78 expected to be 6.4 per cent; if not, what figure is predicted. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
On how many occasions has final decision on foreign investment proposals differed from the recommendation of the Foreign Investment Review Board on the matter. 
What cases were involved. 
For what reasons were the Board's recommendations not accepted. 
I ask the Treasurer whether it is a fact that many small businesses in rural and urban areas have suffered greatly from fluctuations in their incomes. Is it also a fact that the Industries Assistance Commission report, initiated by the Labor Government, which recommended the introduction of an income equalisation deposit scheme and the retention of tax averaging provisions for rural producers, also recommended that these proposals should be extended to all taxpayers, particularly the many who have greatly fluctuating incomes? Will the Treasurer and the Government consider implementing this IAC recommendation in the near future, particularly to protect small businesses from bankruptcy in the present recession? 
-The Opposition is not opposing the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Amendment Bill. I would have loved to have participated in the previous debate on the subject of taxation generally and to have followed particularly the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in order to take up some of the things he said, but I must confine myself to taxation as it affects local government. This Bill results from the implementation of the Government's so-called new federalism policy. In its own way it is significant because it points to the many problems which Government has caused by denying local government bodies direct access to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The Australian Labor Party put on record last year its opposition to the Government's new federalism policy, including the plans for local government. During that debate we stated that there would be enormous problems in the allocation of funds for local government in particular, and that is seen now to be so. However, we are not opposing this amendment to the original Bill, because it is only a minor amendment. This does not mean that our opposition to the concepts involved has diminished in any way over the year since we last debated this subject. 
We are accepting this amendment simply and solely because it results from a special report by the Commonwealth Grants Commission on financial assistance for local government. We believe that the Commonwealth Grants Commission is the best body to make decisions about funds for local government and therefore we are prepared to accept its findings in this case, where those findings apply only to the breakdown between the various States of the amount being made available by the Australian Government through the States for local government. Given the obstacles which the Government has placed in the way of the Commission distributing funds in the best possible manner, we consider that the special report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission makes, to use an old phrase, the best of a bad job. However, the special report does raise a number of queries about the distribution of local government general purpose grants through State grants commissions and the problems inherent in the role of the Commonwealth Grants Commission in the way in which it now is expected to play that role. Perhaps I should remind those involved in this debate, and anybody else interested in this subject, that previously whereas the Australian Labor Party Government made available an enlarged Commonwealth Grants Commission to apply itself to this very important subject of getting equity in the allocation of funds to local government, since the so-called new federalism policy has blighted this country- a concept of the Fraser Government which is now foundering- each State has been obliged to set up separate local government grants commissions to do a job which should be done on a national basis. 
In introducing this Bill the Minister assisting the Treasurer explained that the Bill implemented the recommendations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission concerning the distribution between the States and local governments of the tax sharing entitlements provided under the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1976. The Minister did not mention that the Government asked the Commission to perform a task for which no guidelines and little methodology are available. In fact, a reading of the Commission's report will leave one with the impression that the Commission thought it had been given an impossible task in an impossibly short time. The reference to the Commonwealth Grants Commission arose because the Premier of Tasmania felt that his State was disadvantaged by the distribution of funds as enshrined in the 1976 Act. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  gave an undertaking to the Premier that he would have the Commonwealth Grants Commission re-examine the proportionate distribution between the States of the funds entitlement for local government. Frankly, when one examines the problems the Commission has in following the Prime Minister's instruction and when one looks at the time at which this reference was made, one must be cynical and convey the suspicion which has arisen in my mind, namely, that the Prime Minister's original commitment to make this change had something to do with the Tasmanian State election which was taking place at the time. 
The Grants Commission found it impossible to obtain sufficient new data on which to base an updated review of the 1976 distribution. Consequently, all it was able to do was to suggest changes which were confined to what it described as fine tuning the existing percentages. When we have a look at the changes which have been made we see that they are of an incredible proportion. I note that although Tasmania was the State mainly aggrieved, and correctly so, its proportional increase was only 0.3396 per cent. It is incredible that these calculations go to four percentage places of decimals. At the same time, of course, as a South Australian I must be parochial and be glad to note that South Australia received some increase out of this change. But its increase was 0.0832 per cent. Victoria was another beneficiary in the changes by 0.1668 per cent. Sad to relate, the other three States lost similar amounts. It does seem that an enormous amount of effort had to be put into such fine tuning. 
In its report the Commonwealth Grants Commission makes it very obvious that it is unhappy at having to allocate funds for local government on a State by State basis. When the Commission dealt directly with local government as it did during the period of the Labor Government it had a set of well-established guidelines by which it was able to operate properly. Criteria for equalisation between councils were established on an Australia-wide basis. Under the Government's federalism policy- this new federalism of the Fraser Government- no such arrangement is possible. The Commonwealth Grants Commission somehow has to determine the distribution of funds between the States and the State grants commissions then divide those funds on some criteria which they have established between the various local government areas in their own States. There is no tie-up between the activities of the two commissions, that is, the Commonwealth Grants Commission and the local government Grants Commission in each of the States. 
I remember at this time last year, in discussing this Bill when it passed through the Parliament, making the point very strongly that at least the Government ought to give the Commonwealth Grants Commission the task of being an auditor of what was being done in the various States. After all, they are Commonwealth funds raised by the Australian Government which we are considering. The least that we might expect is that the Commonwealth Grants Commission should be allowed to get so involved as to learn the details of what is going on in the various States. This would leave the Commission in a so much better position in order to determine the task which the Government has hurriedly given of establishing what the proportionate breakdown between the various States should be. The immense problem facing the Commonwealth Grants Commission is spelt out in paragraph 15 of its special report which states: 
The Commission can see no necessary relationship between the relative fiscal status of State governments and local government authorities in the respective States. The general taxation resources of State governments for revenueraising purposes differ very significantly from the narrow property tax base available to local government. 
The crux of the problem is that there are both rich and poor local government bodies within any State boundary. There is little relationship between a local government council and its State's ability to raise revenue. When the Commonwealth Grants Commission dealt directly with local government no such problems arose. In attempting to fulfil its role in the Government's federalism policy the Commonwealth Grants Commission is faced with something- I repeat the word- of a methodological nightmare. I really believe that the Commonwealth Grants Commission special report where that word comes up so often is something which every honourable member in the house who is interested in the breakdown of funds between the three tiers of government in the States should read. I repeat again that it is a methodological nightmare. This means that the Commonwealth Grants Commission must have access to an on-going supply of statistical information about local government. However, as paragraph 37 of the Commission's special report states: 
The Government's federalism policy does not envisage the Commonwealth Grants Commission seeking this information direct from local government authorities. 
At the moment stop-gap arrangements have been agreed in principle between the State authorities and the Commonwealth Grants Commission whereby the State authorities will supply the Grants Commission with required information. Mention has been made of the introduction of a permanent and comprehensive system for the collection of local government data. However, no details of the form this system will take or of when it will be introduced have been mentioned. I urge the Government- I ask the Minister in his reply to give some indication of his attitude to this urging- to have another look at this report and at the difficulties which have been raised by the Grants Commission about this matter. I ask the Government to give us some indication of whether another reference will be made to the Grants Commission in order to have some of these longer-term problems seen to. 
In speaking on this topic last year I said that the Australian Labor Party believed that local government had a vital role to play in partnership with State and Federal governments in the provision of services to the Australian people. That is what we are all about. Labor recognised that in many fields local government was the most effective administrative unit. That is why we introduced direct grants to local government during our period in government. These were a recognition of the very real responsibility that people expect local authorities to assume. Despite all its legislative action the Fraser Government has to accept that its prime impact on local government has been to reduce the services which local government can offer. The Government's treatment of local government is another interesting example of the contradiction which emerges in its attitude towards public spending. 
Since coming to power the Liberal and National Country parties have made an absolute virtue out of cutting public spending. It now appears certain that when they leave office they will be unable to claim any credit for lowering the rate of inflation or for lowering the tragic level of unemployment Their only claim to fame will be that despite their counter-productive effects, despite the fact that they are not curing inflation and despite the fact that they are certainly increasing the level of unemployment, they have been able to fulfil their promise to cut public spending, as if that was a virtue in itself. 
However it seems that while the Government is prepared to take the dubious credit for cutting public spending overall it displays little enthusiasm for claiming responsibility for specific cuts. It appears to have escaped the attention of Ministers that cutting the whole also means cutting at least some of the constituent parts. Any experienced observer hearing the Minister's second reading speech on this Bill would no doubt get the impression that local government was doing very well under this Administration. That is far from the truth. Much is made out of this year 's 1 8 per cent increase in the level of general purpose assistance to local government. It is not the only method by which funds go to local government. No mention is made of the fact that total payments to local government have increased only by 6 per cent in money terms. When an inflation rate of 12 per cent is taken into account there is a 5 per cent to 6 per cent reduction in real terms of the resources going to local government so it can fulfil its purpose. This is because of the enormous decrease in the special purpose grants for which many local government authorities were so grateful during Labor's term in government. 
Surely if cutting public spending is such a virtue the Government should be proud to announce that in two years it has been able to cut the level of funds going to local government by almost SO per cent in real terms. No. The Minister's speech continues, I believe, to mislead. I call it a charade. He has played out this charade, as have many of his colleagues, and has mesmerised us into believing that there has been some growth in funds for focal government when that is far from the case. The real import of the meaning of the Government's policies is hidden behind a carefully selected selection of figures. However, despite the reluctance of the Government to recognise its negative achievement, those who are responsible for providing local government services will be in no doubt about what this Government has done to decrease the standards of service being provided by local government. Many dedicated people in local government throughout this country are giving their time free of charge in so many cases. 
The last Labor Budget provided a total of $275m in funds for local government, including road grants. If the value of these funds had been merely kept constant in real terms the total allocation for this financial year should have been in the vicinity of $345 m. That is what it should have been if we were to keep up with the allocation of those resources in real terms. The actual allocation is not $34Sm but is estimated to be approximately $204m or roughly two-thirds of what it should be to keep local government in a steady or no-growth situation. I am not talking about even a growth in real terms; I am talking about merely keeping it in a no-growth situation. I am talking about keeping up with the sort of allocation that had been made in the past in real terms. The $204m is all that has been allocated this year, as against $345m which should have been made available. If this Government increased funds to local government by more than $100m today total funds going to local government would be no greater in real terms than they were for the last year of the Labor Government- the 1975-76 year. 
Some idea of the Government's priorities can be gauged by examining where it has made the greatest cuts. In 1974-75 local government received $43m for employment creation under the Regional Employment Development scheme. In 1975-76 the amount was $93m. For this financial year there is no allocation- not one dollar for this employment-creation scheme. Despite the fact that unemployment is at a record high level and is at least 30 per cent above the level of two years ago when the Labor Government left power, the Government has refused to take any initiatives which would stimulate employment in our community. There were problems, we admit, with the administration of the old RED scheme, but these resulted mainly from the fact that the scheme was brought into action very hurriedly. 
The fact remains that the Regional Employment Development scheme employed up to 30,000 people at one time. This Government has had plenty of time to examine alternative employment-generating measures and to overcome the administrative problems of the RED scheme, but it has done nothing. It seems to prefer to do nothing for the unemployed and instead to give tax concessions to better-off people, as we have seen in the Budget. We all would be better off if there were far more stimulatory expenditure than we have to date, particularly stimulatory expenditure of this sort, through local government, to get our economy moving. I repeat: We all would be far better off, whatever our income levels, if this were the policy pursued rather than the giving of tax concessions which are of greater value to those who are better off than to those who are worse off. 
Take the position in South Australia, which is your home State  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as well as mine. I am glad to see you in the chair. In our State the Labor Government has different priorities, as you know. I do not know whether you approve of them. At least I know you are aware of them. The State Government has set up a local initiative program which is about to be expanded. It will put 1 ,500 people in work at any one time. The program is done through allocations based on local government, which is why it is so pertinent to the matter which we are debating. The South Australian scheme, which heavily involves local government authorities, concentrates on activities which as well as being worth while, are ones in which labour-intensive operations are suitable. It appears that the South Australian scheme could operate at a level, if the funds were available, at which 2,000 people could be employed at any one time without administrative problems getting out of hand or the quality of the projects deteriorating. 
A scheme of this type in South Australia employing 2,000 people is equivalent to a nation-wide scheme employing 22,000 people. Admittedly this is only a small proportion of those out of work but it is a start. The local initiative program is one particularly relevant to discussions about local government. Those local government areas in which pockets of unemployment run in excess of 10 per cent of the work force would find such a scheme of great community benefit. Based on South Australian figures, the net cost to revenue of a local initiative scheme employing 22,000 people would be in the vicinity of $ 1 50m. 
It says something for the priorities of the two sides of Australian politics when we realise that the present Federal Government has cut back completely on local employment schemes while the Opposition has spelt out one in its proposals to get Australia working again. At a State government level things are no different. I refer to the program which I have just outlined. The South Australian Labor Government has a successful local employment program while the Victorian Liberal Government has just refused a recommendation that an employment subsidy scheme be introduced. The Liberal Party Opposition in South Australia at this time is threatening to cut out the job-creation program of the Dunstan Government at a time when that program is so badly needed. This is part of its program for the State election. 
There are many examples of drastic cuts in funds to local government by the present Government. Cuts in the national sewerage program and in the efficient and innovative Australian Assistance Plan come readily to mind. It is in the context of what can be done so readily through local government that we view this Bill. We are not opposing the Bill. It merely alters to four decimal places the present allocations. We are taking the opportunity to point out our general opposition to the Fraser Government's new federalism program. We do not believe that funds for local government ought to be cut. There is certainly no certainty of uniform standards of service being given throughout the country to local government. There has been a wasteful proliferation of State local government grants commissions. All in all, we are not very enthusiastic about the total scheme. We support the Bill for the minor amendments it makes. 
Debate interrupted. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
1 ) In view of the statements in the Budget Speech and papers that expenditure on defence is to increase by 7.4 per cent in 1977-78 relative to 1976-77, and that this is an increase of one per cent in real terms, is the expected implicit deflator for defence expenditure during 1 977-78 6.4 per cent 
Since manpower costs are over half of total defence spending, and average weekly earnings are expected to increase by 10.S per cent, is the deflator for all other expenditure about 2.S per cent. 
Are certain categories of defence expenditure to be cut, is the number of defence personnel to be reduced, or is the pay of defence personnel expected to increase by less than 10.5 percent. 
If any of the possibilities referred to in parts (2) and ( 3 ) are expected, what are the details. 
-With you indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  and for the record, the Opposition is not going to force a vote on this Bill for the reason that we considered it more appropriate that the time should be used in debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-It is my job as the Opposition 's shadow Treasurer to analyse the Budget as an economic document The Fraser Government's policies are built on three false premises and each of the three partly explains this bad Budget which we are debating this afternoon. The first is the 'short, sharp shock' thesis. When this has not worked it has been converted into the 'extended shock' thesis or the 'let's have an extended recession with greater and greater unemployment' approach. The false Liberal and National Country Party belief is that this is the only way to reduce inflation, and that reducing inflation is the  sine qua  wow- the without which nothing- of economic recovery. The second false premise which explains so many wrong decisions of the past 21 months is that it is necessary to reduce real wages of men and women of Australia, the real living standards of Australian people, in order to transfer more profits to the business, particularly the corporate sector- which to them, wrongly, is another  sine qua non  of economic recovery. 
The third false premise of the conservatives which explains so much is what I describe as the 'bastardised-Friedmanite' theory. It follows the false thinking that there is some magic medicine in cutting the supply of money to a dangerously low level. Not even Friedman and his Chicagoite school of economists pursue this false philosophy with the ideological dedication of the Fraser Government. 
Let me turn to the tragic results of following these three disastrous premises as illustrated in this Budget and by the past economic performance of the Fraser Government. Remember that the first premise is the need to create that shock- which, when it did not work, has become the extended shock. 
The main criticism levelled by me and my colleagues at last year's Budget was that it was too contractionary. The great fear was that the initial stages of recovery evident in early 1976 would be choked off by heavy handed government action. These fears appear to have been well grounded, as the decline in economic activity in 1977 illustrates. The high level of economic activity in 1976 occurred when the economy was predominantly under the influence of the last Labor Budget, known as the Hayden Budget. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  himself has given credit for economic performance in early 1976 to that Budget. During an interview on the Australian Broadcasting Commission current affairs program  Four Corners  of 1 8 December 1 976 he said: 
Look, you've got to remember that in the first part of this year, you were sul) operating under the Hayden Budget, and under Labor policies, and quite obviously it would take some time for those policies to change. 
It did take some time for those policies to change; and when they did as a result of the first Lynch Budget and of earlier economic actions the economy began a further decline. 
There are a number of means of measuring the impact a budget will have on an economy. One of these is the calculation of the full employment budget position. Using the fact that in a recession government expenditure automatically rises through increased welfare payments, and receipts fall through lower tax receipts, calculations are made to obtain what the budgetary position of present expenditure and receipt patterns would be at the position of full employment. I and other members of the Opposition have repeatedly asked the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to supply us with an estimate of last year's Budget's full employment position. The Treasurer has always refused arguing that such a calculation is of dubious worth. This is despite the fact that in the United States of America such an estimate is made automatically and is used extensively in discussions on budget policy. Now the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development through the report of a group of independent experts headed by Professor Paul McCracken has endorsed the use of the full employment budget concept. I know some Government supporters have noted that I have questions on notice of the Treasurer at the present time on this very subject. 
The McCracken report entitled 'Towards Full Employment and Price Stability' is an in-depth study of economic policy in OECD countries in recent years. The summary of the report, in a discussion of the impact of budgetary policy and the need for planning, states that the members of the Committee 'endorse the ideas underlying the approaches made along these lines in several countries, for example, the concepts of the full employment surplus (United States), the 'neutral budget' (Germany) and structural budget policy (Netherlands)'. The Treasurer in the past has been fond of expressing satisfaction with the way his Government was carrying out his interpretation of OECD policies. The endorsement of full employment budget calculations by the McCracken Committee is very difficult to misinterpret. The only reason the Government can have for not publishing such calculations is that it is afraid of admitting just how contractionary its Budget policy has been. I refer not only to last year's Budget but to this year's Budget as well. Here comes the crunch. The Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research at Melbourne University has made calculations for the full employment position of the 1976-77 Budget. That Institute assumed that a realistic level of unemployment at a high level of economic activity would be 2 per cent. Using this basic assumption it found that the 1976-77 Budget was in modest surplus at full employment. This means that it found that the $2.8 billion deficit was entirely a function of the extension of recession. The public sector was not being used to pump up the level of economic activity. Initial calculations on the full employment position of this year's Budget reveal a substantially higher full employment surplus than last year. This means that budgetary policy is being actively used to withdraw resources from the private sector and hence slowdown economic activity. 
Professor John Neville of the University of New South Wales gave a paper last year on another single figure measurement of the impact of budget policy. This measurement is termed the budget impulse. Using one particular form of the budget impulse calculation, Professor Neville found that last year's Budget represented a much greater contraction of the direction of fiscal policy than any budget in recent history. Preliminary estimates indicate that the 1977-78 Budget will have a further substantial contractionary impact. One measure is obvious from all these complex calculations: Budget policy has been highly restrictive and with hindsight the renewed downturn of early 1977 was only to be expected. 
Despite the fact that this Budget predicts little improvement in unemployment or inflation I consider that the forecasts in Statement No. 2 are overly optimistic. There is every reason to assume that the contractionary impact the Government's first Budget had on the economy will be repeated with this the second Budget. According to the Budget national income is expected to grow by about 4 per cent over the course of this financial year- that is from the June quarter of 1977 to the June quarter of 1978. Unfortunately it is very difficult to identify the source of this expected growth. 
Private consumption expenditure which accounts for some 60 per cent of national income is expected to show moderate growth this year. A moderate increase in consumption was also expected last financial year. The actual increase was 1 .7 per cent. If this year 's so-called moderate growth in consumption is the same as last year's, it seems inconceivable that income growth will exceed the 1.3 per cent achieved over the course of 1976-77. Nothing put foward by the Government suggests that there will be any substantial increase in consumption. Indeed on the Government's own admission real average weekly earnings are likely to fall over 1977-78. This can only mean that people will have less to spend, thus reducing the total demand for goods and services. It is unlikely with inflation and unemployment still high that consumers will feel confident enough to reduce substantially the level of thensavings. This supposition is supported by the results of a survey of consumer sentiment conducted by the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research. The Institute found that 'Measures to reduce real incomes are being reflected in consumer attitudes'. The constant harping from the Government on the need to reduce real wages can only reinforce the tendency of consumers to save rather than spend. 
In the short term there is likely to be a fall in consumption. With the rebate system in operation tax refunds are much lower this year. Personal income will not receive the boost it usually does at this time of the year. Consequently the tax refund buying spree is not likely to be of any significance. With expenditure cuts having an immediate impact, the prospect of early contraction is far from remote. This will further dampen confidence and further reduce the already slim chances of significant stimulous from the February tax changes. A number of recent surveys have demonstrated that the great majority of taxpayers, in the face of rising uncertainty about the future, are unlikely to increase consumer spending even with substantial income tax cuts. The announced changes, which heavily favour the better-off, are more likely to lead to higher savings or expenditure on imported luxuries and overseas travel with little resultant impact on domestic activity in this country. 
The Government expects private investment to be a substantial source of growth in this financial year. Little explanation is given for this optimism. Indeed, with falling demand, high stocks and already substantial excess capacity in manufacturing industry, there appears little incentive for increased investment in expanding productive capacity. The ratio of private stocks to non-farm product is at its highest level since 1974, thus reflecting the failure of consumer demand to live up to business expectations. Hence stock building is unlikely to add to income growth. The added impost of a rise in company tax rates is unlikely to engender the confidence the private sector will need before it will expand. Investment in the mining industry will probably increase but as this form of investment accounts for less than 1 per cent of non-farm gross national product, its overall effect will be minimal. 
The home building industry is expected by the Government to be another area of substantial growth. This forecast already has had doubt cast upon it by the Australian Housing Association and other parts of the industry itself. In a statement accompanying their 1976-77 annual report, the directors of Jennings Industries Ltd, Australia's largest home builder, criticised the Federal Government for 'failing to provide measures in the Budget to lift the current level of activity in the building industry'. The directors further pointed out that, without selective stimulus, unemployment would continue to increase and public confidence- an important element in the functioning of the private housing sectorwould decline. Further evidence of a bleak future for the building industry comes from the latest ANZ Bank Survey of Construction Activity, published just 2 weeks before the Budget. A survey of 336 members of the Master Builders Federation of Australia and the Australian Federation of Construction Contractors reported tight profit margins, depressed levels of activity, a surplus of unemployed labour and tough competition for the inadequate supply of available contracts. 
The Government assumes that an improvement in the balance of payments will contribute to growth. However, some slowing down in the rate of growth in major industrial countries is evident this year, so demand for exports may not grow substantially. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics actually has forecast an 8 per cent fall in the value of rural exports. Last financial year rural exports accounted for some 44 per cent of total exports. An 8 per cent drop in almost half of our exports will leave a lot of making up to be done before exports can be expected to make a substantial positive contribution. The value of imports may, however, continue to rise. Imports have taken a long time to respond to devaluation, suggesting that perhaps the price elasticity of demand from imports is lower than expected. In other words, consumers still prefer imported goods, even at higher prices. All this suggests that a further deterioration in the current account deficit is quite possible, making a forecast of growth derived from the overseas sector very suspect indeed. 
I turn now to another of the theories on which the Fraser Government's policy is based. I have said already that I do not believe that the Budget will live up to expectations in relation to growth. I have illustrated this from the point of view of consumer demand, investment decisions demand and the overseas sector. What I have called the Friedmanite theory also has to be related to this Budget. I am bound to say that if monetary policy, as outlined in the Budget, is followed it will, as happened last year, severely hamstring any possibility of recovery. The announced target of money supply growth of 8 per cent to 10 per cent is far below the prediction for nominal money income growth of around 15 per cent. There is every evidence to suggest that, as in the last 12 months, tight monetary policy will have a greater effect on retarding growth than on restraining price increases. 
The Government has made much recently of the prospect of falling interest rates. The reduction in the deficit is supposed to make that inevitable. However, this proposition ignores reality. In spite of the cut in the deficit, the total public sector borrowing requirement has not been reduced. The drop in the total borrowing program for the Commonwealth Budget and nonBudget sectors from $3,025m to $2,960m has been more than offset by a rise of over $300m in the borrowings of State, semi-government and local government authorities. The real situation is that the public sector will be out to borrow more than it did last year. This means that no sustainable drop in interest rates is possible within the confines of the Government's restrictive monetary targets. Any interest rate drop in the next Government loan must be regarded as a sheer gimmick, unless the monetary growth targets are eased. The State governments, to their credit, are forcing a reduction in interest rates. But let us be clear: This means that the money supply growth targets announced in the Budget are meaningless. Hopefully, this is so. 
From what I have just outlined, it is more than possible that consumers, investors and the overseas sector will add nothing to real income growth in 1977-78. In this situation the foolishness of further cuts in the real level of government outlays is even clearer- especially as the cuts predominantly fall in those capital works areas which have the greatest stimulatory effect on the economy. Far from getting the 4 per cent growth in non-farm product predicted over the course of this financial year, it appears that we will be fortunate if there is any growth. The Melbourne Institute's forecast of growth from June to June of about 1 per cent, or close to last year's level, looks even optimistic. Such a performance by the economy would see the prediction of the Government's adviser, Professor Warren Hogan, of unemployment of 8 per cent, or almost 500,000 people become a reality in early 1978. 
The tragedy of all this is that the extended shock thesis which I mentioned in opening my Budget debate remarks is not working. This financial year, 1977-78, will be the third year in succession during which prices have risen by something of the order of 12 per cent. In other words, we still have inflation. In the same 3-year period unemployment will have risen by somewhere between 100,000 and 200,000 and, significantly, most of that rise has occurred or will occur during the period when the major thrust of policy has been towards lowering the inflation rate. Given these unhappy facts, there is every reason to question the assumption made by the Government that present policies will significantly lower the rate of price increases. As I said earlier, it has been the cornerstone of Government policy that inflation had to be beaten before sustainable recovery was possible. Any suggestion that recovery itself would be an effective means of combating inflation has been ridiculed by the Government. We of the Opposition ignore that theory altogether. 
More and more evidence is gathering that the Government is not right, and never has been right, in using its 'suffer now so that we may prosper later' approach. It is very easy on present policies to see the economy being locked into annual inflation rates of 10 per cent to 12 per cent, even at very subdued levels of activity. Indeed, one of the Government's own council of economic advisers, Professor Whitehead, forecast this last week. In many instances, the excess capacity and lack of demand in Australian industry is acting as a stimulus to price increases rather than as a deterrent. Firms in a monopoly or oligopoly situation will continue to keep profit levels up in the face of flagging demand. Obviously, if their costs are spread across lower than potential output, the price per unit of output will ave to be higher to sustain profit levels. Alternatively, if demand and output were to rise then unit costs would fall and the necessity for price rises would decline. 
The problem is a classic one of the Government applying market control forces where plainly the market is not functioning as expected. Restrictive policies have well and truly met the point of fast diminishing returns. The Government's refusal to use the public sector to create employment, or to aid in the restructuring of industry, or indeed to reduce inflation by reducing unit costs by encouraging output, is a tragedy. In fact, one of the major negative contributions this Government has made to economic debate in Australia has been its propaganda which aims at discrediting any suggestions of the value of public sector stimulus or the adoption of a more rational monetary policy. It is patently absurd to suggest that there is no scope for stimulatory fiscal policy at the moment. There is scope. The general consensus of the discussions on economic policy the week before last at the ANZAAS Conference was that a policy of modest stimulus was not only possible but also necessary or essential. 
This is the basic difference between the short term approaches to the economy of the Government and the Opposition. There is not a difference of degree, as some have attempted to make out. There is a fundamental difference of approach. A Labor government would be committed to a program under which all policy instruments would be directed towards using recovery to assist in overcoming inflationary pressures. At present when the Government's arms of policy are all working in the one direction, which is not very often, they are designed to purge inflation from the system by deliberately restraining activity. For the Government, no recovery is to be facilitated before inflation reaches acceptable levels. As indicated earlier, there are good reasons to believe that this method will not work and, even if it did, the costs to the community are too high to pay. The only common ground between the Opposition and the Government on economic policy is a recognition that inflation has to be reduced. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-On behalf of the Opposition I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the second reading of the Bill, the House is of the opinion that: 
it reduces in real terms the funds available to the States, 
b) it increases the States' borrowing costs, 
it forces the States to reduce the services they provide and /or to impose additional taxes and charges, and 
it leads to increased unemployment'. 
All those charges apply to the Budget which we have just heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  huffing and puffing about and seeking to defend. The States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill 1977 authorises the payment of the grants component of the State government Loan Council programs for the current financial year 1977-78. Almost $500m is involved and this represents approximately one-third of the total program agreed upon at the 1 July Premiers Conference. As well as this amount authority is given for the payment of grants for capital purposes in this financial year until the passage of the authorising legislation for the year. A limit is placed on the amount of payment which can be made in 1978-79 without further legislation passing through this Parliament. This limit is set at half the amount of the 1977-78 grants. 
This legislation is an intrinsic part of the Government's main policy thrusts since assuming office. I see two thrusts. They are tied up with the Government's so-called new federalism policy and with its supposed main anti-inflationary weapon, namely, cutting government expenditure. It appears that the progress of new federalism has been brought to an abrupt halt. The States find themselves unable to agree with most of the Commonwealth's demands. The policy that was supposed to bring a new era of cooperation in Federal-State relations has brought nothing but acrimony and confusion. We will have a further example of this at the forthcoming Premiers Conference and Loan Council meeting which take place shortly. 
The much vaunted policy of giving States the dubious freedom to raise their own income tax has been rejected by New South Wales, to mention the people of just one State, who have been given that opportunity so far. The people of South Australia will be given an opportunity on Saturday and will similarly reject this Government's new federalism pOliCY. They will vote in the Dunstan Government by an overwhelming majority. Double taxation was a major issue in the New South Wales election and when voters grasped the full import of what the conservatives who are running the Commonwealth at the present time were trying to do, they rejected the Commonwealth's counterpart in the State. This will be the experience in South Australia and in more and more States as people realise how new federalism will affect them. 
-The Government's attitude to the States can be summarised quite readily. I heard an interjection from the honourable member for Braddon which is an electorate in Tasmania. Since he came into the Parliament, temporarily as a oncer, there has been a State election in Tasmania and the people of Tasmania have overwhelmingly rejected double taxation as they will overwhelmingly reject him at the next opportunity. The Government's attitude to the States can be summarised quite readily. Under its policies the States are to get more and more responsibilities and fewer and fewer resources. 
The second reading speech of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Viner)  gives the impression that the States will receive a good deal under this Government. He admits that the grants which are the subject of this Bill have been increased by less than 6 per cent. However, he does not spell out that this means a drop in real terms in excess of 6 per cent because in the Government's Budget Papers it admits to an inflation rate of 12 per cent. So if one is getting an increase in money terms of only 6 per cent at a time when there is an inflation rate of 12 per cent- admitted by the Government- then there is a drop of 6 per cent in real terms. This means resources of that lesser amount will be applied to the States for the services of the people in those States through the State governments. The Minister seeks to alleviate the concern of those interested in the resources available to the States by adding at the end of his speech that the total of general purpose and loan funds is up 14 per cent on last financial year's level. This is another example of what I mentioned in the debate on the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Amendment Bill. The Government is using selectively chosen figures to avoid taking responsibility for what it has actually done. On some occasions it finds merit in its policy of cutting Government spending but when it has to face up to the results of cutting that Government spending, as it has to do in a Bill such as this, it goes to water and we hear inane interjections from back bench oncer members of the Parliament. 
It is undeniable that the present Government has cut overall the real level of funds going to the States; that is, the total of loans, general purpose and specific purpose funds have risen by only 9 per cent this financial year compared with the previous financial year. This amounts to a drop in real terms of 2 per cent to 3 per cent. We still hear honourable members on the Government side protesting. I repeat: At some stages the Government finds merit in cutting Government spending but when it has to face the real facts of how this means reduced services for the people through the public sector, then the Government protests and pretends that that has not happened. Honourable members on the Government side misrepresent what the Government is doing for the people of this country. 
What the Government is doing here amounts to a drop in real terms of 2 per cent to 3 per cent, but nowhere is any mention made of this. It is not mentioned in the Budget, it is not mentioned in the second reading speech of the Minister and it has not been mentioned on any other occasion that I can remember. Once again, it is curious that a government so convinced of the necessity for cutting Government spending is not prepared to spell out how it is doing that. The estimate of the drop in real terms of 2 per cent to 3 per cent in funds available to the States probably illustrates the real seriousness of the situation. For example, last year actual expenditure on specific purpose grants was some $125m less than estimated in the Budget. There is no reason to suggest that such an occurrence may not be repeated this year. Specific purpose grants for 1977-78, the current financial year, have already been cut by some 8 per cent in real terms compared with the previous financial year. It is worth examining some of the areas in which these cuts are being made. Funds for pensioner dwellings are down some 1 8 per cent in real terms. Aboriginal advancement programs are due to lose in real terms in excess of 16 per cent of funds. The urban public transport allocation has been reduced by 25 per cent. Other urban programs such as those for sewerage, land development and growth centres have virtually disappeared. In these areas the States are not to get funds, which they once received, totalling in excess of $200m. 
Total funds going to the States in the current financial year are estimated to be about 18 per cent to 20 per cent in money terms above the level of 1975-76. But when account is taken of a rise in the price level of 1 8 per cent to 25 per cent, the treatment which the States have received from this Administration is put into stark perspective. It is no wonder, with the new federalism policy meaning a reduction of some 5 per cent to 7 per cent in the real level of resources available to the States, that the collapse of policy is imminent. Only today the Prime Minister has fuelled speculation of an election this year. There is only one interpretation of that eventuality, and that is that the Government is frightened of an election next year which is the proper time that such an election is due. The reason I am prompted to make that remark is that the rumours around the corridors- they may even be a fact by now and announced publicly- are that two Ministers, perhaps the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  at the table is one of the unfortunates, have been prevented from going on their overseas trips. The Minister shakes his head. He is fortunate. He is still going on his jaunt some time soon. 
I shall allow the interjection by the Minister for Transport and say that, temporarily, he is staying in the country. The next Premiers Conference in October has a fundamental dispute to settle before the Commonwealth can proceed with its plans in this area. Last year the States were expected to get an extra $90m under the tax sharing arrangements to balance their cuts in specific purpose grants. As events turned out, tax receipts were such that the extra $90m payment did not eventuate. All the States bar Queensland have been forced into the position where the tax sharing formula was to give them less revenue than the guaranteed minimum determined by reference to the old grants formula. Needless to say, five of the States have done away with this guarantee. As a result the tax sharing formula has been abandoned and there is now a new dispute between the Commonwealth and the States over the form the formula should take. 
We on this side of the House have pointed out to the Government many times that its policies towards the States involve more confrontation than co-operation. The latest dispute over the reimbursement formula is but one in a long line of disputes. However, this could be the one which brings the demise of the farce, which is what I call the so-called new federalism policy. Unless agreement is reached over a new formula the Government's version of federalism is finished. Considering the problems it has caused, this would probably be the best result all round, namely, the end of this farce known as new federalism. 
At the outset of my speech I said that this Bill was an intrinsic part of the Government's two main policy initiatives. I have already discussed the one relating to Federal-State relations- the new federalism. I turn now to the other, the cutting of government expenditure. Last year, during debate on this Bill's predecessor, I pointed out that the Government's policy of cutting public expenditure, in particular capital works expenditure, threatened to push the economy deeper into recession. The Government has certainly not learned the lesson of the last 12 months, for we have been pushed further and further into that recession. For the next financial year funds going to the States for capital works programs are down some 12 per cent in real terms compared with those presently available. This followed substantial cuts in 1976-77. Total capital outlays in the recent Budget have fallen by almost 1 8 per cent in real terms. 
It is worth examining what has happened to the economy since the Government's policy of cutting drastically public expenditure has begun to have a substantial impact. It is generally accepted by independent observers- not by people on this side necessarily- that the levels of public expenditure struck in the last Labor Budget represented a sustainable balance between the need for restraint, on the one hand, and the need to help the private sector back to recovery, on the other hand. 
-That Budget was working in early 1976. 
-Independent experts such as the Institute of Applied Economics, even people such as professors at our various universities and most eminent economists in this country have agreed that the Hayden Budget represented a budget of proper balance between the need to stimulate, on the one hand, and the need to restrain, on the other hand. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) Did he say in his Press release No. 69 of 8 April 1976 on the establishment of the Foreign Investment Review Board that the Board would be given a statutory basis at a later date. 
If so, is the legislation to be introduced during the present parliamentary sittings; if not why not 
Has he received any advice from (a) the Board or (b) the Treasury on this matter. 
If so, will he release that advice. 
I wish to speak during the adjournment debate about the death of a black South African, Steve Biko. The death of this young 30-year old man in a South African gaol took place on 13 September last. Steve Biko was said to have died as a result of a week long hunger strike in the main prison in which political detainees are kept, that is Pretoria Central Gaol.  His  death is the twentieth reported death in South African gaols which has occurred for the most unlikely reasons over the last15 months. When Biko, already house arrested for five years, was gaoled on 18 August in the midst of increasing police crackdowns on black protests, his friends who last saw him found him healthy. They expected him to be released after the usual one to 12 weeks intimidatory detention. Instead, he is dead and the public, as usual, has been fobbed off by yet another bizarre so-called cause. Biko's death will be viewed as a major turning point in the black struggle for liberation in South Africa. 
A good number of young blacks have been killed, disappeared or left South Africa during the past15 months. Even Government sources admit that 352 have been killed during this time. Other sources claim anything up to 10 times that number. Steve Biko was, however, the founding influence of the whole black consciousness movement which emerged in 1968. He was also its main mentor, guide, maturing influence and ideologue. A charismatic character, Biko was held in the highest respect by all blacks and by the smaller number of whites who knew him. 
Born in the small Eastern Cape Province town of King Williams Town, he gave up a promising career as a future medical doctor by devoting himself entirely to the cause of black liberation. Within five years the South African Student Organisation, the core of the black consciousness movement, had generated many other movements the best known of which are the Black People's Convention, the Black Workers Alliance, the Black Renaissance Movement, the Black Women's Movement and the South African Students movement. The last mentioned organisation was named as the generator of the Soweto uprisings of 16 June 1976. Although Steve Biko was banished and restricted to his home town in 1973, his sane yet stimulating advice served as a core of influence in most of these movements. Within them moves the main proponent of a specific black identity and the necessity for black people working on their own towards their own liberation. 
What will be the effect of Biko's death? Already massive demonstrations have started to take place in South Africa and as a consequence 1,200 people have already been arrested. At an international level both the United States and British governments have called for an inquiry into Steve Biko's death. It would seem that the least that the Australia Government can do is to join in the increasing international protest about what has occurred. It appears highly unlikely that  Mr Biko  died by voluntary starvation. I have been told by his friend and co-worker, Colin Collins, a friend of mine who lives in my electorate, that the question of trying to make prison deaths look like suicide was frequently discussed among black activists in South Africa. In fact, Steve Biko frequently told  Mr Donald  Woods, editor of the East London  Daily Despatch  that any reports to the effect that he had gone on hunger strikes were to be disbelieved. A fairly obvious conclusion can be drawn. Under these circumstances it is imperative that the Australian Government urge the South African Government to set up a commission of inquiry into Steve Biko's death. 
Why has the Fraser Government caused this delay in protesting against Steve Biko's death? I believe there are such suspicious circumstances that a protest should have been mounted. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  must know what I have learnt and what I have told the House tonight. The Australian Labor Party knows where truth and justice lies in South Africa in assisting the blacks to economic security and political enfranchisement and dignity to where they can exercise their human rights. We have been glad of the change of attitude of our political opponents in recent months. Could it be that this is faltering? I hope not. We have the right to protest in these circumstances and I hope the Government will do so. 
I have a number of grievances to raise. I only hope that I have time to cover them all. One of my grievances is that the  Speaker  has chosen for discussion today as a matter of public importance a Government motion instead of one that I proposed. I believe that is wrong. We saw yesterday how the Government can use its numbers to bring on for debate any business which it chooses, even if it results in a serious downgrading of the standards in this House. 
-Somebody is trying to interrupt my speech and take up my time. 
-Nobody else takes the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)-  the temporary member for Holtseriously so I am unlikely to spend any time on his intemperate- I hope that is the right wordoutburst tonight. I support the amendment. Unfortunately, there are enough differences between the two sides of Australian politics without our manufacturing differences which do not really exist. I believe that there has been something dishonest in some attempts by Government supporters- we have just heard one of them- to widen the uranium debate away from the fundamental issue of safeguards. In my contribution to this debate tonight I want to differentiate between what is real and what is manufactured about these differences. 
Firstly, I shall indicate the points of agreement between us. I take as my text the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  issued on the afternoon that the Government's decision was announced. To use his own words I say yes, our decision must be motivated by a high sense of moral responsibility, not only to all Australians but also to the community of nations. On my side of politics we believe the sort of line we are taking does just that. I say yes, there are four fundamental considerations. The Prime Minister mentioned four, I have some others. But I agree that his four are fundamental when considering these affairs. They are listed in his statement. Firstly, there is the need to reduce the risk of nuclear proliferation. Secondly, there is the need to supply essential sources of energy to an energy deficient world. Thirdly, there is the need to protect effectively our environment in which mining development will take place. Fourthly, there is the need to ensure that proper provision is made for the welfare and interests of the Aboriginal people in the Alligator Rivers region and all the other people living in the regions and working in the developmental projects. 
I agree with those four fundamental aims. In my view there are more than those four. I would have to add to those four fundamental considerations that fifthly, there is the need to ensure satisfactory disposal of waste, particularly the highly dangerous long life plutonium. Heaven knows why this was not included in the Prime Minister's list of fundamental considerations. Sixthly, there is the need to safeguard the transport of that plutonium free from terrorist activity when it is moving from one part of the world to another. 
I shall continue with my list of areas where there is general agreement between the parties. Much of this debate has been taken up with manufactured disagreements. There is, in my view, an inevitability that nuclear power generators will be needed at least between now and the end of this century if the developed world is to maintain its standard of living and if the under developed world is also to be developed. I cannot be so idealistic, as much as I would like to be and as much as I applaud those who choose the alternative lifestyle, as to believe that developed people will voluntarily and peacefully allow their lifestyles to be reduced without enormous problems even though there are grave and risky costs for them in pursuing the nuclear path in order to obtain their benefits. 
I have visited Sweden and Japan, among many countries. These are the two countries mentioned by  Sir Macfarlane  Burnet. I have talked with senior officials about their options just as I have talked over these serious problems in Brussels, Paris and London with a fraternal Labour Minister in London, a great friend of mine who happens to be Minister for Energy in England at present. 
It is not Wedgwood Benn. The honourable member for Holt of aU people ought to know that he is Secretary of State for Energy. Dick Mabon is Minister of State for Energy. I have been to Washington and Ottawa. I have spoken to people in all these places. That is not an exhaustive list. All these countries and more have a commitment to nuclear power. Certainly, there is a pause and a rethink at the same time. There is a realisation that some of the grave problems have been taken too lightly in the headlong rush to nuclear development. Certainly the international economic crisis which has overtaken the world and the increased technical problems associated with nuclear reactors have reduced the present demand for nuclear generated electric power. 
It is my honest conviction that without some almost miraculous technological breakthrough which we cannot envisage at present, the increasing commitment to nuclear power will continue, although it Will slow down. If only some patently knowledgeable and impressive person would tell us that solar energy and/or wind power could take up the slack. Unfortunately I am convinced that this will not happen. Sometimes Sweden is cited as an example of a country where there may be a change of heart. Regrettably I have to point out that this is not so. Only two parties campaigned at the last Swedish election for the termination of nuclear development- the Centre Party, formerly known as the Agrarian Party, and the Communist Party. As I understand it, both lost votes. The Centre Party is now in power only because of the gains of the Swedish Liberal Party with which it is now in coalition and which did not oppose nuclear power. 
Let me continue with the litany of where there is agreement- where we do not have to manufacture disagreement- between the Government and the Opposition on this issue. Yes, it is so that uranium development would in the long term have some significant economic benefits for this country. The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  flattered me by quoting me tonight on this subject. I do not resile one bit from what I have said. It is a question of timing. We are not suggesting for one moment, in advocating a pause, that there would not be a long term gam if we went in for uranium development. None of the economic spokesmen has suggested that. But there is no immediate economic gain in any way in rushing headlong, without a pause, into nuclear development. It is a grave deception to give the impression that this development will be of much use to us in the immediate future. I do not deny that there are some who have sincere doubts about that long term economic development, but I have placed on record what is my feeling and I place it on record again in this House tonight. I repeat that when we are discussing this subject in the Australian Labor Party it is not on the economics that we are pushing our advocacy, it is on the moral issue. Let us focus on where the differences are rather than manufacture them and have a false debate on this issue. 
Although the Gregory thesis has applied in the past- namely, that the success of the minerals export has led over the long term to a growth in our reserves, which led to an upvaluation of our currency, which itself had adverse effects on our other exports and on our import competing manufacturing industries- I do not believe that we can be sure that this will happen in the future because in the future we will have enormous balance of payments problems relating to the import of crude oU. We are going to need our export industries to save us from grave balance of payments problems and the consequent decline in our currency value. But that is not to say that we are going to need the uranium industry. This argument applies to our coal exports and any others that we are lucky to have in this country. I repeat that this is an argument about moral issues, about safeguards, and that is where the argument should have been focused if this debate tonight and on previous occasions were dinkum. Instead of that the House has had to listen to ridiculous and insulting outbursts such as the one we have just had to listen to from the honourable member for Holt. 

 Mr Bob Gregory of the Australian National University makes the point himself that his valuable work is an analysis of the past, not a prescription for the future. More than this, I repeat that a Labor Treasurer would like the taxes from all our mineral exports from all our successful industries to redistribute in this country in order to help the ordinary people of our nation whose quality of life we are determined to improve. The summary of what I have said to date is that the strategies of both sides of this Parliament- I refer particularly to the statements of the Prime Ministerare the same on fundamental issues. The Prime Minister left out a couple of things that I think are enormously important but I cannot disagree with his long term strategies. There is more to it than just that. Labor wants to see moral responsibility. We want to prevent nuclear proliferation. We recognise the need to supply an energy starved world with the valuable resources we possess. We want to protect our Aboriginal people and our environment. 
Most of us think that there is a regrettable inevitability about the development of nuclear power and most of us recognise the valuable economic benefits which can in the long run accrue from the successful development of all our mineral exports, not only uranium. In fact we take credit, justifiably, for persuading our political opponents to share so many of these objectives which I have articulated. If we had not taken the stand which we have taken, with the help of a valuable conservation movement in this country, I assert that the Liberal and National Country Parties- and unthinking people such as the last person who involved himself in this debate- would have rushed headlong into developing our uranium industry in this country without thinking about safeguards, without reports such as the Fox report, without taking the trouble that has been taken. 1 give credit for the trouble that has been taken to this point of time. 
The Prime Minister quite rightly paid tribute to  Mr Justice  Fox and his colleagues. They opened our eyes. Particularly they opened the eyes of our opponents. It is a tragedy that the 
Fraser Government has not accepted all of the Fox Commission's recommendations. For instance, I believe that there are good economic as well as environmental reasons for sequential development, as  Mr Justice  Fox and his commissioners recommended. But at least something has rubbed off- the bilateral agreements with at least some safeguards; at least some government participation in the Ranger venture, however halfhearted that has been; and at least some protection for the environment and for the Aboriginal people. I give some credit where it is due but we say that it has not gone far enough. However, all of these things are pluses. At least let us be thankful for some Fraser Government enlightenment. 
It is grossly misleading for Labor's political opponents to manufacture differences where they do not exist. There are some differences and I must outline them. Some of them are differences of approach and some are differences of tactics. They relate to the likelihood of nuclear proliferation, to the inadequacies of high level plutonium waste disposal and to the dangers of terrorist activities in the transport of plutonium around this globe. They address themselves to the belief that the Fraser Government's tactics are wrong, in order to achieve the fundamental aims outlined by the Government itself. Labor believes that there is a vital need for a moratorium now to enable far greater international activity now and in the near future to increase the safeguards. Because we possess 20 per cent to 25 per cent of the world's known uranium resources and because we are making economic sacrifices and can be seen - 
He is not worrying me, so please do not worry about him. 
We are in a strong position to influence the rest of the world to make our planet a safer place. That is what we ought to be doing right now and with a lot more fervour than we are showing. No one wants our uranium at all desperately at least for the next eight years. We have seen work such as that of  Mr Ken  Davidson just recently. Until 1985 there is no immediate need for our uranium. There are no immediate economic advantages for us which will help us out of our deep economic recession in having such uranium development right now. So let us apply ourselves to the need for upgrading the safeguards. I indicated earlier that 1 have had the opportunity to travel the world and to discuss this vexed subject. 
My conviction is that the International Atomic Energy Agency itself is not satisfied with the standards which have been set down. Its policies are influenced by the numbers game. A number of its members are developing countries which believe that increased safeguards, with the resulting increased costs, are a developed rich man's plot to deny energy resources to the poorer men of this world or at least to make those resources most expensive. This we must overcome. It can be done only by energetic, persuasive, proselytising activity. This is what we ought to be doing in the international forums of this world. 
We have good allies. I mentioned that I had discussed this subject recently in Ottawa and I drew to the attention of the House the fact that there is a moratorium right now on exports of uranium from Canada to both the Euratom countries and Japan because they do not think that the present safeguards are satisfactory and they are looking to this country to be an ally in ensuring better safeguards. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
The Government allows a couple of wet-behind-the-ears back benchers to speak on a censure motion - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member with resume his seat. 
But when it comes to the real business of the House, the discussion of legislation, it gags the debate. It gags the spokesman - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I warn the honourable member for Adelaide. He must obey the instructions of the Chair. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Mackellar will not take risks by addressing himself to the Chair without getting the call. He will remain seated. 
I want to - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 September 1977: 
1 ) Did the Budget Papers for 1976-77 anticipate a moderate rise in private consumption expenditure during the course of that year. 
If so, is the rise in consumption that occurred of approximately 1 . 7 per cent considered to be a moderate rise. 
Is it expected that the moderate growth in consumption predicted for 1977-78 will be of the same order as that achieved in 1976-77. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 6 September 1 977: 
1 ) Has the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation approved a loan to cover 85 per cent of the cost of a major South African coal handling project. 
Is he able to say whether only a quarter of the capital equipment for this project is to be made in Australia. 
-It is not often that the Irish in me comes to the surface but it did last night when I was gagged in seeking, as Opposition spokesman, to speak at the second reading stage of this Bill. I am grateful, having made my fuss, that better counsels prevailed and the Bill did not get rushed through last night, giving me an opportunity now to say something at this third reading stage. Incidentally, we understood that there were to be three speakers in the second reading debate and I want to thank the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  for their contributions in my absence from the House during the second reading debate. 
In supporting the Bill at this third reading stage I want to point out that it is a machinery measure which has formed pan of the legislative program of successive governments over a number of years. The Bill provides legislative authority for the Treasurer to borrow up to $ 1,100m during 1977-78 to meet the anticipated deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund. This Bill gives me and others who wanted to speak on this Bill an opportunity to discuss the value of deficits. It also gives us an opportunity to discuss the value of borrowed funds for defence purposes. Effectively this Bill transfers amounts up to $ 1,100m from consolidated revenue to the Loan Fund. No authorisation is given for new expenditure and the Bill does not involve a change in debt management policy. Similar Bills have been enacted by the Parliament for the same purposes almost annually for decades. The Australian Labor Party has never opposed such Bills. We have regarded them as what they are and as I have described them before, machinery measures required for legal and accounting reasons. 
I realise that I am obliged to stick closely to the details of the Bill in a third reading debate and not range widely as I would have done at the second reading stage, but I would like to draw attention to a certain amount of nonsense involved in setting an arbitrary limit to the funds to be borrowed. In this regard I refer to clause 3 of the Bill which we discussed during the Committee stage last night. The Government has embarked on this meaningless exercise of setting these limits each time it has introduced a Loan Bill over the last couple of years but the repetition of what I call a farce adds nothing to the usefulness of this action of setting a limit. In effect this Bill, as with its predecessors, is not more or less than an open ended attempt to gain funds by borrowing. The only reason which the Government could have for including a cash limit would be to create some sort of impression of responsibility and efficiency but frankly it is window dressing and it is obligatory on me to point out where the window dressing takes place. 
If we want to discuss administrative efficiency let us do it in the context, for instance, of die Auditor-General's report which we have not yet discussed in this Parliament. The AuditorGeneral has shown in his latest report presented in this Parliament just how staff ceilings have led to such enormously inefficient operations. Just because mistakes were made when the Liberal and National Country parties were in Opposition and they discussed from the Opposition benches a Bill such as this, do not let us pretend that setting an arbitrary limit like $ 1 , 100m on this transfer from Consolidated Revenue to the Loan Fund for defence purposes means anything at all. The setting of a limit on funds to be borrowed under the Bill is, as I have already said, a preoccupation which comes to us from the Government's opposition days. In this case setting up the image has no impact on efficiency. I repeat that the staff ceiling example which I mentioned earlier in achieving the image has obviously had an adverse effect on real efficiency levels. 
Despite the fact that this Bill is merely a machinery measure, when a similar Bill was introduced into the House some two years ago members of the then Opposition who are now in government used it as a vehicle to make outlandish and irresponsible predictions about the possible level of the 1975-76 Budget. That was the last Australian Labor Party Government Budget. The Opposition at that time, led by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the present Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  who was then shadow Treasurer, embarked on a systematic program to distort the role which the public sector was playing in the economy at that time. The  Australian  newspaper of 9 September 1975 quoted the then Leader of the Opposition as saying that the Budget deficit would reach $6,000m. He arrived at this figure by multiplying the deficit for the first two months of the financial year by six. I point out that if we do such a calculation this year we will get a projected deficit of more than $9 billion. But I doubt whether the Prime Minister will make such a calculation this year. Certainly, I am not going to do so as, I hope, a responsible spokesman for the Opposition in these Treasury matters. 
It was ridiculous and irresponsible to suggest that a deficit of $6 billion was a likely outcome of the Hayden Budget or the 1975-76 Labor Party Budget just as it would be absurd to suggest that this year's Budget deficit on present indicationsadmittedly, we have already had changes with some benefits for the beef industry and changes to tax averaging-could reach $9 billion. But in spite of these and other possible changes to the Budget before it has been put through the Parliament, I am not going to assert that because the deficit for the first two months of the financial year is at such a rate, then we will end up with a $9,000m deficit this financial year. But I am bound to point out that this is the sort of irresponsibility which was taking place two years ago and which led up to the premature election of December 1975. Total cuts in projected expenditure made by the present Government on the 
Hayden Budget of 1975-76 amounted to something less than $300m. The final actual deficit, adjusted for the present Government's Medibank pre-payment fiddle, was $3.5 billion, that is $1.1 billion less than the figure the Prime Minister claimed it would have been. It would take an extremely rubbery-to use the Treasurer's latest famous adjective-$300m to stretch out to the $ 1 , 1 00m mentioned in this Bill. 
I thought the figures were rubbery. I am grateful for the intervention by the honourable member for Lilley. If they are rubbery figures, then I think that would be an adjective as it describes them. 
I think that even he has gone back into his shell now that I have drawn attention to the context in which Treasurer Phil used that adjective. The claims by the Liberal and National Country Party Opposition in 1975 regarding the deficit were, of course, nonsense. Nobody with even the minimum of economic literacy could have made them, with any sense of responsibility. However, let us have a look at what happened to the 1975-76 Budget and trace through the sorts of things which can happen to a loan Bill such as this. Before concluding I comment on another aspect of the role played by the public sector in recent years which has been the subject of much debate and, possibly, of much misunderstanding. The present Government claims that many of our current economic problems result from the increase in the size of the public sector which is supposed to have occurred between 1972 and 1975. In current price terms Commonwealth Budget outlays increased from 25 per cent of gross domestic product in 1972 to more than 30 per cent of gross domestic product in 1975. This expansion could have occurred as a result of the public sector deliberately increasing its call on the nation's resources or, alternatively, as a result of the public sector's share being maintained in real terms while the price of the goods which it consumed rose at a much faster rate than did the price of goods which the private sector consumed. They are the two alternatives before us. It behoves us to look at which of those two alternatives apply. 
I draw attention to the fact that at a recent seminar on urban management processes two officers of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development produced a paper in which they claimed that the lack of relative price effect was a major reason for the apparent increase in the size of the public sector. They found that in real terms public consumption and investment by all levels of government have maintained a fairly steady share of gross domestic product at around 27 per cent in recent years. That is, under Labor the public sector merely retained its real share of the nation's resources. I am not making any final determination on this thesis but I point out these alternatives. 
I take the opportunity to draw attention to some work being done at the Australian National University at the present time on this matter of relative shares of our gross domestic product going to the public and private sector over a longer period than the period which was the subject of assessment by the two officers from the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. I believe the point is that the rapidly expanding public sector was far more an apparent than a real phenomenon during that period. It behoves us all, when we are trying to discuss or assess the past in order to help us with decisions about the future, to get at the real facts. 
This type of evidence further underlies the folly of the present Government's attempts to reduce the real level of public sector activity. In fact, we can learn from views expressed at the recent International Monetary Fund conference in Washington and from the changed attitudes of the governments of Prime Minister Fukuda of Japan and also Chancellor Schmidt of West Germany, to mention two countries. I point out that there is great merit at a time of stagflation, such as at the present time, in adopting the Australian Labor Party's alternative short term economic policy of moderate, stimulatory public spending to help the economy return to health, provided that spending is in areas where there are underemployed resources of men and material. As I said at the outset, although this Bill is a link in the operations of the funding of government activities, it is merely a machinery measure. Last night I was annoyed when, as spokesman for the Opposition, I was gagged. I know there is a great feeling of shame on the Government benches about this matter but honourable members have absolved themselves by allowing me to say something now. I thank the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 September 1977: 
1 ) What indexation factor did he assume when he calculated the effect on revenue in 1978-79 of the application of 50 per cent of that factor to the tax schedule from 1 July 1978. 
If the expected indexation factor is less than 10 per cent, on what basis has the Government assumed that average male earnings will increase by 10.5 per cent in 1977-78, as stated on page 133 of Budget Paper No. 1. 
If the expected indexation factor is more than 10 per cent, is it a fact that more than one million taxpayers on incomes around $7,000 will pay more tax from 1 July 1978 under the new schedule, indexed by one half of indexation factor, than they would have done if the old schedule was fully indexed. 
If so, why does his Press Release No. 94 of 25 August 1977 state that the Government would ensure that in 1978-79 all taxpayers would be better off than they would have been under the present system with full indexation. 
Is the Government going to introduce yet another tax schedule to honour that undertaking. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 September 1977: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the method used for calculating the factor to be used in tax indexation has or will have varied in each of the years 1976-77, 1977-78 and 1978-79. 
If so, will he explain what he means by the term 'full automatic indexation' as used on page 20 of his Budget speech. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 September 1977: 
1 ) Does Budget Statement No. 2 assume that the broadly based price deflators will move during 1977-78 by approximately the same amount as they did during 1976-77. 
If so, does this mean that, coupled with a real growth forecast of 4 per cent, non-farm product is expected to rise by approximately 1 5 per cent in money terms during 1 977-78. 
Will the announced money supply target of 8-10 per cent represent an even more restrictive monetary policy than has operated during 1976-77. 
If so, what is the justification for this credit squeeze. 
-In speaking to the estimates for the Department of the Treasury I want in particular to devote some attention to the Australian Taxation Office. It is now eight years since I was elected to the House of Representatives and therefore it is eight years since I earned a living as a taxation consultant. I retain from those days an admiration for what seems to me to be a well run taxation department operating in a very difficult and sensitive field. When I was a taxation practitioner I never ceased to marvel at the helpfulness of officers of the Taxation Office. They often were put under great provocation by dissatisfied clients- this applied in particular to members of the assessments and investigations branches of the Office- yet they seemed to go about their tasks with courtesy, and they retained a politeness and good manners which so often are missing in the modern world, even in less difficult circumstances and in much less sensitive departments than the Taxation Office. I know that my views were shared by many colleagues in the profession with whom I was in contact in those days, and I have no reason to believe that that does not apply today. 
With a twinkle in my eye, I own up to that being a bit of honest softening up for what I am about to say. As good and as efficient as the Taxation Office is and as polite and as courteous as its officers are, it is not nearly good enough that virtually all the research and policy formation in this intricate and difficult field is going on in that Office. I use the word 'virtually' because I realise that policy formation is supplemented by the thinking of a few officers in the Department of the Treasury and also in the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. The point is that it is not good enough, in my opinion, to allow taxation policy formulation to go on virtually solely in the Public Service. There must be much more input at an earlier stage from outside the public sector. 
At the present time I know of only two people from outside the public sector who are making any substantial contribution to the taxation debate in our community. I refer to  Mr Eric  Risstrom of the Taxpayers Association based in Victoria and Associate Professor Peter Groenewegen of the University of Sydney. They would be the first to agree with me that it is not good enough that they would be the only ones who are making any substantial contribution. With their limited resources, I am sure that they also would agree with me and would be the first to admit that they are mainly reacting to what has been done- seeking changes, sometimes successfullyrather than having an input into promoting changes in advance of those coming forward to this Parliament. 
On 7 October 1971, six years ago tomorrow, I spoke on this subject in this same Treasury estimates debate, and I am proud to say that I do not withdraw one bit of what I said then. I am glad to notice that the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  is quickly turning to his  Hansard  to check what I said on that occasion. One of my main points on that occasion was to advocate the establishment of an Australian taxation foundation. It should and must, for success, be financed by both the public sector and the private sector. This foundation should be charged with the task of commissioning research into taxation and the economic and social implications of taxation policy. My concept and the concept of those who support the establishment of such a body is for a small secretariat to be commissioning research in very many different areas and by different people, such as scholars from the universities, appropriately qualified public servants, tax practitioners, and lawyers and accountants who are in tax practice. These are the sorts of people outside the Taxation Office who should be commissioned to carry out various tax research projects. There should be an interesting and valuable public debate arising out of their findings, which should be published regularly. 
This advocacy of mine, now spanning six years in this Parliament alone- although I remember that I had something to say about these matters long before coming into this Parliament-is nothing very revolutionary. There has been a Canadian Taxation Foundation, which provides a model for what I want, which has existed since 1945. There is the Institute of Fiscal Studies in the United Kingdom which has existed since 1971. We have here in our own country the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research operating in a similar format to the one I envisage but of course hardly touching the important subject of taxation because, as its name denotes, it is commissioning independent research into applied economic subjects other than taxation and social research. 
-As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports has said, it receives $2,900 in the very estimates that we are debating. I know that the honourable member will be entering into this debate later. He will understand that, much as I would like to discuss the Melbourne Institute and the valuable work it has done, in the short time available to me I intend to concentrate on the setting up of a similar body in the taxation field. We also have some encouraging developments in the private sector towards the type of taxation foundation envisaged. I refer to the fact that three taxation practitioners in Sydney have set up a body called the Australian Tax Research Foundation. However, as I understand the position, it is lying dormant while they view the fortunes of a project recently established by the Taxation Institute of Australia. I believe that the Institute has appointed a research officer and that some work is under way. 
I make the bold assertion that relatively little will be done until government takes an interest and carries some of the financial burden, as it does in the case of the Melbourne Institute. This will encourage corporations and individuals in the private sector to back the foundation- firstly, because they will realise that the Government is interested in its findings and, secondly, because they will be aware that it is a body of substance with a continuing existence. 
To me the registered organisation of the three Sydney practitioners will be a satisfactory starting point. I have not viewed its constitution, but from the report that has been conveyed to me by one of its founders it would seem that the three practitioners have the same ideas as the ones I have expressed. I hope that with the Government's imprimatur or backing the Taxation Institute will come in behind this particular foundation with the resources of that worthwhile organisation. It would have to be a separate foundation with its own constitution and with adequate government representation. It would not be possible, in my view, for the Government to subsidise a separate research section of an independent body like the Taxation Institute. 
It is so much clearer to us after the recent Budget announcements that there is a desperate need for such a taxation research body. Bills which still have to be introduced and which are part and parcel of the Budget will give legislative backing to some extraordinarily unwise tax changes contained in this Budget. I refer in particular to the changes in the tax scales. Let me read out what the 8 September 1977 edition of  Church Scene,  a Victorian Anglican newspaper, had to say in its editorial about the new tax scales:   a community which passively allows a maximum benefit to the very rich is being callous not tough. 
Widening the gap between rich and poor may be an incentive for the rich, but it reveals a complete lack of interest in the problems of the poor amongst us. 
I cannot believe that, if there were a proper research foundation in the community, such slovenly tax changes would have been introduced. I am not putting this blame in any way at the feet of the public servants who have had to come up with the details. The blame must be laid at the feet of the Government, which had the political will to make these extraordinary changes. 
Surely most of us can agree that, apart from the growing number of unemployed who are also harshly treated in this Budget, those amongst taxpayers who need most help are lower income group citizens who are bringing up families. Yet this Fraser Government has substituted family allowances for the old tax rebate for dependantsquite rightly and with our support- and did not then index family allowances. Even after the changes to the tax scales on 1 February families are going to be worse off. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Did the Government promise, in seeking power 2 years ago, to lower interest rates? Have the State Premiers, led by the Labor Premiers, indicated to the Australian Government their unanimous view that interest rates must be reduced by at least 0.5 per cent? When is the Government going to lower interest rates meaningfully, particularly for the home owners and prospective owners of this country? In view of the fact that the public sector borrowing requirement is larger this financial year than last, how is the Government going to achieve a meaningful lowering of interest rates while seeking to maintain its money supply growth targets at about 5 per cent below expected nominal income growth? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 September 1977: 
1 ) What is his definition of the concept of 'a full employment surplus or deficit'. 
Does his Budget have the effect of creating a full employment surplus of over $ 1 billion. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 September 1977: 
1) Did he say, in speaking to the Victorian State Council of the Liberal Party on 19 March 1977, that the Government's policies have made Australian families better off in real terms. 
If so, is this one of his many assertions that real average weekly earnings and real household disposable income have been rising. 
Do the Budget papers, in Statement No. 2 on page 17, show that on the contrary, real average weekly earnings have fallen sharply since the September quarter 1976 and are now lower than in the September quarter 1 974. 
Does this same table show that real household disposable income fell sharply in the first 6 months of 1977 so that it is now below the level in the September quarter of 1 974. 
If so, what is the justification for the earlier wrong assertions. 
It is a disgrace to the institution of this Parliament for the Liberal-National Country Party Government to put up a new back bencher to answer a matter of public importance raised in this House by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  This is no reflection on the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  whatsoever. I am devoting attention to the institution of this Parliament. The present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  when he was Leader of the Opposition and since, has talked about the importance of the Parliament. I and many of my colleagues have supported the concept that we should upgrade the Parliament. It is only if we do so and treat it with proper respect that we will get respect for this institution and for our form of parliamentary democracy. But that is not happening. Censure motions are ignored by the Government. A matter of public importance on a grave issue such as charging the Prime Minister with misleading statements- a matter sufficiently grave for the Leader of the Opposition himself to raise it- is replied to by somebody who joined the Parliament only recently and who, with respect, is not expected to stay any longer than the term of this particular Parliament. 
Wo accept that the Prime Minister cannot answer these charges himself. Indeed, the Leader of the Opposition has an appointment right now. He has asked me to express his apologies for not remaining in the chamber. But the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  is in the chamber. Why is he not answering this grave charge? Is it because he does not want to? 
I suppose that is true. He wants to be Leader. I should have thought that if he wants to be Leader he might have gained more respect from those behind him if he had been prepared to defend the present Leader. 
Perhaps not That is not the way in which the present Prime Minister did it, admittedly. He did it by more underhand methods. But the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKeller)  was also in the chamber. I have not heard that he wants to be Leader. Why did he not enter into this debate? The Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  is here. They have all given time to be in the chamber yet this chamber is treated with such disrespect that no one Minister would answer the grave charge from the Leader of the Opposition. Instead, the honourable member for Barton has done so. He did not answer the charge in any way. He harked back once again to the previous Administration. He sounded like the old worn record which we hear so often churning out the old destructive message. The Government is not applying itself to the grave dangers and the grave recession which our economy is in at present. 
Australians are learning fast that they have a Prime Minister whom they cannot believe. That is what this motion is all about- the great tragedy for our country of the Prime Minister's misleading and damaging statements in his broadcasts and elsewhere. One of the misleading statements was highlighted by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  in question time today. We are learning from these misleading and deceptive statements the sad truth that they illustrate the failure of our present leaders to face facts squarely. How can we find the right solutions to our problems or, more accurately, how can they- I point to government supportersfind the right solutions if they are not facing squarely the sad facts about the ill health of our economy? They are not diagnosing the problem correctly. Because of that they are not giving the right prescriptions. 
I can bring up particular statements in the Prime Minister's broadcast referred to by the Leader of the Opposition without mentioning any one of the seven raised by the Leader of the Opposition. I start off with the first sentence: 'Australia is back on the road to economic health'. Who believes that? What person in an objective position believes that we are anywhere near the road to economic health? That is a deception it is nonsense. I do not like being pessimistic about our economy. I do not like crying doom. But I repeat that, unless we face the facts squarely, we shall not choose the correct policies. Honourable members opposite should go out and talk to any businessman. They do not need to talk to somebody who normally votes for the Australian Labor Party. Let them try to persuade a group of businessmen that we are on the road to economic health. The businessmen will laugh, as indeed they are laughing at these sorts of deceptive statements put over in electorate broadcasts in Wannon. The facts just will not bear out the contention. It is depressing that the chief executive of our nation is misleading us all and is seeking to mislead the Australian electorate in this way. 
Let me cite one commentator to prove my assertion about the attitude of businessmen. In the Melbourne  Herald  of Thursday, 6 October, 'Australia "Blind" to Crisis' is the claim made in the headlines. The article states: 
Australia was facing an economic crisis, the Victorian director of the Australian Institute of Management,  Mr Ron  Gilchrist, said today. 'The tragedy is that few people perceive it as such', he said. 

 Mr Gilchrist said that he personally was not anticipating more than a one per cent growth in GDP in 1 978. 
Though industry's cash flow, aided by the investment allowance and stock valuation adjustment, and now recovered, investment was likely to remain well below historical levels. 
I repeat that we on this side of the House have pointed out ourselves that, by investment allowances and stock valuation adjustments, we are getting enormous profits which are recorded in our daily newspapers every day, but these are not leading to investment. Honourable members opposite have come to the wrong conclusions about what is going on in this economy and, therefore, they believe that there will be an investment-led recovery. That is complete nonsense and it shows just how wrong they are in their diagnosis. Following that, it shows that they are giving the wrong prescriptions.  Mr Gilchrist  is just one example of what the business community thinks about present policies. The article goes on: 

 Mr Gilchrist said, 'For the forseeable future, the market is just not there. We are in a new ball game. 'If we are to generate sufficient aggregate demand to absorb unemployment, we shall have to look for areas other than private investment to provide it.' 
I repeat that we shall have to look to areas other than private investment to provide it. More and more businessmen are coming to the realisation that, with the structural problems we have in our economy today, it will be only by public sector stimulus that we will achieve that return of consumer confidence and, with that, the return of business confidence and the investment which will be the only means of returning this economy to the health that is required. The article goes on further. 

 Mr Gilchrist said, 'Reduced investment means unemployment. It means that industry will be unable to satisfy demand in the future. 'In turn, when consumer demand is stimulated, unemployment will be barely affected due to import substitution.' 
Those are the words of  Mr Gilchrist,  who is the Victorian director of the Australian Institute of Management, which is not an organisation which supports the Labor Party. I assert that, until April 1976, our economy was moving in the right direction. This was due to the balanced policies in the Hayden Budget. But from the time when this Government attempted to mutilate the public sector and when it did not accept that it is the public sector's job to stimulate the private sector and indeed to create jobs itself, unem- ployment has been growing to unprecedented levels. Let us take the end of September figures. We find that there are now 82,1 18 more people unemployed than there were at the end of September two years ago when Labor was in power. These are the results of the wrong diagnosis of what is going on in the economy ana a completely wrong prescription. Until we have a return of the expansionary policies-brought about in a modest way, because we cannot allow inflation to take over again- we will go on having the growing unemployment brought about by this Liberal-National Country Party Government. 
I thank the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  for following the usual courtesies and making available to me a copy of this statement a couple of hours ago. This enabled me to study and to assess it. First, I shall summarise my assessment of the statement and then I shall go back over some of the points I make in the summary. My summary is: The Treasurer's statement is in my view a singular piece of not very clever window dressing. The Fraser Government in general, and some of its back bench supporters in particular, have made a lot of noise about a concern for small business. But action has not matched the words. 
The only particulars of any substance in the statement involved public enterprise aiding and stimulating the small business sector. I, of course, refer to public enterprise which is so often criticised by Government supporters. I refer particularly to the Commonwealth Development Bank lifting its restrictions on lending; I refer to the Australian Industry Development Corporation stimulating activity through joint ventures; I refer to the Australian Bureau of Statistics and to the Bureau of Industrial Economics providing more information for the small business sector; and I refer to the Department of Commerce and Industry upgrading its monitoring of trends. I say that this is excellent democratic socialist activity, and the Opposition welcomes the Government's conversion to this cause. 
We cannot leave the market-place to determine the fortunes of small business. We must have government intervention of this sort, government intervention which in so many other spheres is being mutilated at present with tremendous harm to our economy. But we are bound to highlight our cynicism further by asking some questions of the Government in this context. First, whence are the extra funds to be used by the Commonwealth Development Bank to come? We can all assume that, at present, the Commonwealth Development Bank is using all the funds available to it? I ask that question particularly in view of the tight- the overtight monetary policy being perpetrated on this nation by the Fraser Government. 
We have a growth target at the moment of 8 per cent to 10 per cent and that is being operated mainly through the banks of this nation keeping business short. There is no business area being hurt more by this than the small business of this nation. Yet, in this piece of window dressing that has been presented to us today, we find that the Government is relying on the Commonwealth Development Bank to provide more funds for small business. We welcome this step. We hope quick action will be taken in this area. 
My second question, highlighting the cynicism of this window dressing is: Why did the Liberal and National Country parties when in opposition oppose legislation which would have allowed the AIDC to take on new functions? Here we have the Government giving the AIDC new functions in order to help the small business sector when they are the very people who opposed the amendments which the Whitlam Government was putting through this Parliament in order to widen the capacity of the AIDC to do just this sort of thing. That must highlight our cynicism. My third question is: Why did one of the Government's back benchers- I refer to  Senator Messner-  mentioned by the Treasurer, only the other day oppose the collection of more information from small businessmen by the Australian Bureau of Statistics? I will tell honourable members why I think he did. He did it to obtain cheap publicity, and that is exactly what he received. 
Here we are now recognising that the Australian Bureau of Statistics must collect this information from small businessmen, at whatever inconvenience to them, so that we have the raw material on which to base proper decisions by government. We recognise that it creates difficulties for small businessmen to give this information but it must be done, and it is the job of Government senators, just as it  is  my job- I am prepared to do it- to go out and explain to small businessmen why they are put to this inconvenience; not to obtain cheap publicity by issuing a Press release, as  Senator Messner  did, relating to some survey that he had carried out of small businessmen, and how upset they were by having to give this information. 
My fourth question is: Why did the Treasurer not mention that the most significant action taken by Government to aid small business was the establishment by the Australian Labor Party Government of a national small business bureau. The Fraser Government has downgraded it by substituting a finance and small business branch of the Tertiary Industry Division of the Department of Industry and Commerce. Here we come to the crux of the matter. The Labor Government followed what had happened in the United States of America where for some years they have had a small business administration department, and it set up one here because it recognised the great value of small business to our community. But what this Government has done has been to downgrade that national bureau and it has then gone to the States and said: 'Will you fix up something?' It has not given any extra funds to the States to do so. This apparently is evidence of the cynical attitude of not wanting the national Government involved in these great national issues but throwing off responsibility to someone else, giving the functions to the States without any extra specific funds for the States to carry out those functions. No wonder we believe that the making of this statement this afternoon is a cynical exercise. 
I have another question: What extra funds is the Federal Government making available to the States to enable the States to carry out the extra functions relating to small businesses? The Fraser Government has been pleased to hand out these extra functions. Now I want to know from the Government what specific extra funds are being given for this purpose. The amount of money being given to the States at the present time is built on the existing functions which the States are given to do, not on any new functions. The amount of money being given is only an upgrading in monetary terms of what the States are bound to carry out. 
The answers to those questions which I have raised-I could have thought of a lot more- will point up our reasons for being cynical about this small business finance statement and our reasons for dubbing it a window dressing exercise. Small business has been shockingly hurt by the stagnation policies of the present Federal Government. If we want to learn about those stagnation policies all we need to do is to go back and read the speech of one of the Government's own former back benchers, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)-  people need not take it from members of the Opposition- and read the reasons he has given to throw off the yoke of the Liberal Party and to follow proper and adequate economic policies for this country. Bankruptcies are climbing at an alarming rate at the present time. Until we adopt Labor's expansionary economic policies there will be little joy for small business. 
I said that having made a summary I would return to some of the points that I made. We of the Opposition agree that small businesses have a very important role to play in our society. In this mixed economy of ours where it is important to have a private sector as well as a public sector, a very important part of the private sector is small business. It provides the innovations and the changes which are a very important part of our economic system. We believe such activity in the private sector, and particularly in the small business sector, is important to provide the necessary stimulus to our economy. Another point I want to make is to challenge the so-called claims by this Government that some of its policies have helped small business. Are there many really small businesses that believe that the 40 per cent investment allowance helps them and not big business? I am clearly on record as not supporting the investment allowance at all, but it is a sheer misleading of this Parliament to suggest that such a policy would help small business vis-a-vis big business. I do not believe in the investment-Ted recovery. I think that what big business and small business want more than anything else is customers, and that is what will lead to investment. That is why we on this side of the House support an expansionary economic policy, a policy of expansion with care to ensure that we do not ricochet back into inflation. We are supporting that expansionary policy. There is no policy which would help small business more than that. 
The 40 per cent investment allowances are not favouring small businesses. Does any objective person suggest that the stock valuation allowance helps small business vis-a-vis other business? Small business does not have the finance now to hold large stocks, and the stock valuation allowance helps mainly those who have stocks. Relatively few small businesses can take advantage of that. What small business does know is that the Fraser Government has put up company tax rates from 42.5 per cent to 46 per cent. That is what is hitting them. That is what is hitting their finances and that is what they will remember at the next election, and not window dressing statements such as this one. However, I support the raising of the division 7 allowance from 50 per cent to 60 per cent, which this Government has done. I believe that that has mainly helped small businesses and that it was necessary in a tight monetary time. 
Let me come back to the cheek, as I call it, in the statement where it is suggested that discussions with the States had led the State governments to set up small business administrations in order to help the small businessman. They have done nothing of the sort. The South Australian Labor Government started its schemes for small businessmen long before this Government decided that it would downgrade its own national small business bureau and once again throw responsibility on to the States for something that should have been a national responsibility. The South Australian Labor Government has taken up the cudgels and will do so but only because once again the Fraser Government has shirked its responsibility and is not doing in the national sphere what it ought to have been doing. 
The rest of the statement was pretty well padding. To provide the requisite number of words in the statement the Treasurer has published a well known list of the publications which the bureau had put out. I want to make the point that those publications are the result of the Labor Government's policies. Those publications are the result of the setting up of the national small business bureau, which got on with the job of providing information for small business. I agree with the thesis that what small business wants more than anything else is information and help with management. I point out that what Government can do more than anything else is to provide just that. That is what the Labor Government started to do. 
I speak with far more knowledge and experience of this subject than any honourable members on the Government benches who have been catcalling here. Through the Workers Education Association in South Australia I ran a small business training course for about 10 years before coming into this place. That course was in planning and running a small business. I was discussing the problems of small business, and doing something about them, for many years before some of the catcallers on the Government benches opposite climbed on the bandwagon for political reasons and sought to provide some help for small business. 
I return to the main point: What small business wants more than anything else is an expanding economy; but what it is getting, and what the rest of this nation is getting, at the moment is a contracting economy due to the false philosophies of the Fraser Government. It is getting a Budget which is doing nothing more than taking activity out of the community and creating more unemployment. The result of this in South Australia alone is a growing number of bankruptcies in small business. Whereas last year there were about 300 bankruptcies, this year, from what I can find out from the profession, there will be more than 500 bankruptcies in South Australia alone. That is an alarming increase, and it is due to the wrong economic policies of this Government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 4 October 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a letter from a former employee of the Foreign Investment Division of the Department of the Treasury which was published in the  Australian Financial Review  of I September 1977, and which alleges that the Treasurer's undertaking, given in the House of Representatives on 1 April 1976, to set up the Foreign Investment Review Board as an independent statutory body has not been given effect to because of objections from some Treasury officials: if so, is there any substance to the allegations. 
) What are the objections which have been raised. 
Does the Government still intend to pursue the undertaking given by him on 1 April 1 976. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 5 September 1 977: 
What is the meaning of the new piece of jargon 'outturn prices' used in his answer to my question No. 1295  (Hansard),  15 September 1977, page 1268). 
I am glad to hear the news that the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony)  has given to the Parliament and to learn that there is a commercial settlement concerning sugar prices. I hope that as Minister he may come into the debate a little later and tell us on what price the commercial settlement has been reached. In fact, I give him the opportunity to interject. 
-From the $386 we can work out what the drop has been for the commercial producer in Australia. We must also seriously take into account the fact that a contract between ourselves and the Japanese is not now sacrosanct, which has long term implications for us. I do not want to create difficulties in this area, but I point out that a National Country Party State Premier in  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  had quite a lot to say in this whole matter that did not make negotiations at all easy for the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd. Indeed, I am also bound to say that he moved around the Australian banks within the last couple of weeks seeking $ 160m to bail  ov  his building societies. Ke could not find it. I now understand that he used the CSR company to go to Japan to seek to borrow $50m from the Japanese banking system, which itself would not have helped the negotiations between the CSR company and commercial interests in Japan to reach a solution in this very sensitive area to which the Minister for Overseas Trade has just alluded. Let us hope, as the Minister has said, that an arrangement relating to the 213,000 tonnes on the water now will lead to a longer term arrangement and to even better negotiating formulae between ourselves and the Japanese so that in future contractural arrangements are sacrosanct and are not quitted at the stroke of a pen or at a decision on the spur of the moment, as seems to have been done in this case. 
I might say that to me there may be a quid pro quo in the new, more flexible arrangement between ourselves and the Japanese. I am very well aware that when there was an up valuation of our currency at the end of 1972 the Japanese interests importing our iron ore took into account the fact that the Australian companies were hard hit by this up valuation of currency. That displayed a more flexible attitude in that area of trading negotiations. I am surprised that that element has not entered into the debate relating to CSR. It just means that to a far greater extent there has to be government involvement in this. Our relationship with the Japanese is allimportant and certainly we do not want intervention such as that by the bungling Premier of Queensland in this matter and in the raising of loans through one of the companies involved in this sensitive sugar arrangement. 
I believe, as the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  has said, that overseas trade has been relatively neglected by the Fraser Government. I have not got together with the honourable member for Blaxland on this. I make that point to show just how genuinely we on this side of the Parliament feel about this matter. The very fact that this important department, the Department of Overseas Trade, shares a Minister with the Department of National Resources is indicative of the neglect. Further, the Minister, the Leader of the National Country Party, being forced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to carve off part of his power base when the Prime Minister appointed the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  Minister for Special Trade Negotiations, is another indication of what we have said. It is interesting to note that the Special Trade Negotiator no longer adds to his official title the words 'with the EEC. This suggests that he might not feel himself confined to Europe. I hope for his sake and for other reasons that this is so. Trade needs boosting, and this fragmented set-up will not result in the boost. Nor will the honourable member for Bennelong have much success if he thinks he can break through the European Economic Community's common agricultural policy. The CAP egg is scrambled and we are not going to unscramble the egg, however hard we try. The time for hope in not misscrambling the egg was when the egg was being scrambled at the time the negotiations were taking place and the common agricultural policy was being negotiated. The Government at that time, the same conservative type of government as we have now, was relatively silent on the issue. The chickens are now coming home to roost because of the Government's neglect at that time. 
The Special Trade Negotiator has been given an impossible task. I hope he is being given a hole into which he can crawl, other than Europe, in order to try to gain some success for his efforts. We have had some pathetic Press releases from him. My imagination tells me that they are the sound of a man being raped by experts. He writes that it has become increasingly clear to him that many Europeans apply a highly selective approach to the principles of freer trade. I could have told him that before he left Australia. Had it stopped him from going, thousands of dollars of taxpayers funds would have been saved on his present round of talks in Europe. Incidentally, I agree with his sentiments. The European Economic Community's agricultural protectionism is appalling, but we are too late to do anything worth while about it. Let us set out to see what we can get from that monster in the way of further trade in the manufactured products, because we will not get that customs union to change its attitude when it comes to the votes of the farmers having their sway. Too many EEC nations have their own equivalent of our own National Country Party barring the way to progress. I notice the smiles on the faces of some of my Liberal opponents. I sympathise with them in the difficulties they have with their country cousins as well. Precisely the same thing goes on in Europe at present with the country tail wagging the dog. 
For progress to come from increased trade we must have these negotiations and we must have a Minister devoting himself to just this. The world's hope for increasing its standard of living is an increase in trade. In so many sectors we need economies of scale and specialisation in order to achieve the greater productivity which is the necessary ingredient for improved standards of living. In too many cases our home market is too small for those economies of scale. So we must integrate with others, by trade, to get the larger markets for those economies. Perhaps our misfortune in being so isolated by distance from those large customs unions of Europe on one side of the world and the Americas on the other side of the world can be to our good fortune for we are relatively closer to the awakening Asia, particularly the ASEAN countries. It is with them that we must work out complementation and it is with them that we must now concentrate more trade. This will not be at the expense of our Japanese partners who remain our greatest trading partner. We do not want to put all our eggs into the Japanese basket any more than the Japanese want to put their eggs into our basket. 
It is my belief that another hope for boosting our exports, particularly primary industry exports, is to concentrate on increasing trade with countries on the other side of the iron and bamboo curtains. Only 9 per cent of world trade at the present time is with those countries on the other side of those curtains and this proportion has scarcely changed in the past 15 years. This is a bad record. Those who turn their backs on eastern Europe and on the Chinese do so out of sheer ignorance. In recent months there has been more effort with the Chinese but, I believe, quite insufficient effort with Europe. We in the Labor Party believe that this will come about only if we build up an overseas trading corporation. Because I have had so much to say about the sugar agreement with Japan I am afraid I will have to cut short my remarks about the overseas trading corporation. The Canadians have one and New Zealand has one. The present system in Australia is that we do not have one and there are many private organisations which want one. I congratulate the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  for seeking to have one and I hope that soon we will have one with increased trade with eastern Europe. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Committee debate on the estimates for the Department of Industry and Commerce, the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs and the Department of Productivity gives me an opportunity to draw attention to the need for a focusing in this country on medium and long term planning. We have, of course, a major economic department in the Department of the Treasury which focuses on the short term but unfortunately the sort of philosophy that has permeated governments of this country has been that the medium term and long term are just a series of short terms. It is my conviction that in particular parts of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs and the Department of Productivity could be amalgamated into a major economic department that has the task of developing a long term strategy for our country. 
We find that so many of the problems that our country faces today just cannot be cured by pulling a macro economic lever here or pushing another one there. The world has changed. Our economy has changed from the conditions that prevailed, for instance, in the 1950s and 1960s. We have to take into account, for instance, that commodities will never again be available at such a relatively low price. I am speaking not only of the oil price hike of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries but also of the developing nations which quite rightly will not allow developed nations to live off them to the extent that they have. But that is only one of the changes that has taken place which must lead thinking people to the conclusion that we require a second major economic department to focus on these medium and long term problems. 
Professor Borrie in his report predicts population levels. But have we properly taken hold of what Professor Borrie has said and worked out just what population we expect to have in Australia at the turn of the century? Do we know what this will mean in terms of the number of jobs that we will require over the years to the . turn of the century and beyond in order to employ fully the expected population in Australia? What will it mean in terms of the number of industries, for instance, that we should have in order to create those jobs and to see that we have full employment in this country? What will that mean in terms  of education  requirements, the retraining requirements and even the training requirements for industry? 
I assert that there just is not the medium and long term thinking going on in our community which focuses on these great problems. The nearest we come to this function is the work performed by the new Department of Productivity and by some sections of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, particularly where that Department has authority over such organisations as the Industries Assistance Commission, the Trades Practices Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal. Certainly these bodies should be answerable to a major economic department that might be established with responsibilities in this area of longer term planning. They should be very well integrated with that department because the work they do is so vital for the answering of the sorts of questions I have raised. They are questions that need to be answered by such a department. 
For convenience I would call the new departmentand I do not want to suggest that the Australian Labor Party has determined a name for it- a department of economic development. I point out also that the Labor Party platform takes care of the establishment of an economic council to service that department. The department itself would be a secretariat for the council. The Council would be made up of people from the business community, from the world of trade unions, both employers and employees, as well as from government, State as well as Federal, and also from scholars from universities. If we are to answer those hard questions, some of which I have raised already in the few minutes I have been on my feet, we need to have a consensus approach. Once we have determined the national objectives, there is no way that we will be able to achieve them unless there is consensus between, for instance, State governments and the Federal government. The State governments, for example, have an enormous responsibility in the area of education. We would not be able to achieve those objectives in a mixed economy such as this one unless there was a general consensus view on these objectives and unless the business community agreed with the objectives. So the business community must have a hand in establishing the objectives. 
There are many detractors from the idea that such a consensus can be arrived at in this country. I recognise the difficulty of doing so. But I think it ought to be tried. I think we ought to seek that consensus and those national objectives. I draw attention to the way in which a wide group of people come in such a consensus in the Vernon Committee report. Heaven forbid that ever again such a fine work should be thrown aside in the way that this committee's work was thrown aside. Also, consensus was reached in respect of the report of the Jackson Committee which applied itself to the grave problems of manufacturing industry. I am still hopeful that there will be a bi-partisan approach on trying to achieve the objectives set out in that report. 
I draw attention to the fact that it is not just a government of the sort of philosophy of a Labor government that has come to the conclusions that we have come to of the need for planning in our community. Even countries such as France and Japan, which have not had democratic socialist governments for many, many years, have planning agencies such as the ones which we envisage. I refer, of course, in the French case to the Commissariat Du Plan and in the Japanese case to that country's economic planning agency. These relatively free enterprise nations concede the great value that there is in getting together and seeking national objectives so that the nation itself can work towards them. Therefore, it is with a great deal of cynicism that one has to draw attention to the fact that a Minister of the present Fraser Government- the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)-  as recently as 8 October in an address to the Federal Council of the National Country Party of Australia stupidly said certain things about such a concept. He said: 
In fact one only has to look at the published platform of the Labor Party to see that the real power lies in endorsing a centrally planned economy with strong government intervention at all levels. 
We have not talked about that sort of concept. There is agreement in the business community of the need for the kind of concept that we are talking about, namely, the need for the establishment of these national objectives. He went on suggesting that our ideas endorse the use of such instruments as government regulation, public private sector ownership, government procurement and nationalisation to achieve an economic system as practised by eastern European and communist bloc countries. That is utter drivel. It is an utterly misleading and deceptive description of the sorts of things we are setting out. 
As I have just told the Committee, the French and the Japanese in particular, and many other nations running mixed economies have seen the virtue of having a major economic department focusing on the medium and long term. Until we have a government in this country which recognises that to a large extent our problems are structural and require agreement between the various sectors of our economy and between the various parts of the government, State as well as Federal, we will go on bumping along the bottom of the recessionary trough as we are now, with unprecedented unemployment and everybody agreeing that that unemployment will rise even further in the new year. I hope that these ideas about the medium and long term will be adopted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Progress reported. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 4 October 1977: 
1 ) Did he say on 20 August 1975 during the second reading debate on the Foreign Takeovers Bill 1975 that the procedures required to be followed in respect of takeovers are clearly different as between Australian companies and foreign companies seeking to effect a takeover, that, for example, mergers and takeovers not involving foreign companies are subject to public hearings and other procedures not contemplated by the foreign takeovers legislation and that it could be argued therefore that Australian companies are required to comply with more rigorous requirements than are foreign companies in similar situations. 
If so, did he mean by this statement (a) that a public register of foreign investment or foreign takeover proposals should be maintained along the lines of that maintained by the Trade Practices Commission and (b) that the reasons for decisions on foreign investment or foreign takeover proposals should be made public as the Trade Practices Commission makes the reasons for its decisions public. 
Does he still subscribe to the views he expressed during the debate on the Foreign Takeovers Bill. 
Is it proposed that the Foreign Investment Review Board report annually to Parliament as the Trade Practices Commission does. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 4 October 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports of the death in detention of  Mr Steve  Biko, founder of the South African Students' Organisation and  President  of the Black Peoples' Assembly. 
If so, is he able to say whether  Mr Biko  had been in detention without charge or trial since 22 August 1977, that he had been similarly held in detention for over 100 days during 1976 and that he is the twentieth person to die in detention since the Soweto riots. 
Will the Government register a protest to the South African Government over the detention of  Mr Biko. 
Will the Government call on the South African Government to investigate fully this and the other 19 deaths of persons held in detention. 
Will this event affect the Government's view of the appointment of a new South African Ambassador. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 4 October 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to press reports of 8 September 1977 of a statement by the  Chairman  of George Weston Food Ltd,  Mr A.  G. Parker, in which it is stated that his company had withdrawn its partial takeover offer for Provincial Traders Holdings Ltd and was not proceeding with the matter despite approval of the Foreign Investment Review Board. 
Is the Board an advisory body only and as such does not have the power to grant approvals to examinable foreign investment proposals. 
If so, what is the basis of  Mr Parker's  reported statement. 
If  Mr Parker's  statement is incorrect, did the Government approve the proposal referred to earlier in the year; if so, when did it do so. 
Did George Weston submit a section 26 notice under the Foreign Takeovers Aa in respect of its proposal. 
If approval is given to a foreign takeover proposal that has been notified under section 26 of the Foreign Takeovers Aa, does section 25 of the Aa, when read in conjunction with section 26, provide that an approval under the Act cannot be subsequently overturned even if it is later established that an offeror's submission in respect of the approved proposal contained significantly incorrect information. 
Has his attention also been drawn to newspaper reports, that (a) the original approval to George Weston's proposal was subsequently overturned following representations by the Board of Provincial Traders to the FIRB (b) George Weston's submission contained incorrect information and (c) a request from the Provincial Traders Board to the FIRB that the original approval to George Weston be reversed; if so, is there any substance in the reports. 
Was George Weston asked to withdraw its proposal even though it had previously been approved. 
Does the overturning of the FIRB's original approval for the takeover mean that the FIRB had not checked the information in the George Weston submission. 
10) In view of the confusion surrounding the case, will he release all the advice he received on the matter from the FIRB. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
-Has the Treasurer noted that most outside commentators, including business groups such as the Metal Trades Industry Association and the Australian Chamber of Commerce, are calling for the adoption of the Australian Labor Party's short term economic policy of job creation through selective stimulatory government spending? Has he noted from a recent Australian Bureau of Statistics survey that more than 65,000 people in Australia who want a job stop looking for one because of continual discouragement, which means that the present unprecedented and disastrous unemployment figures are an under-estimate? Now that we are to have an election in just over six weeks, will the Government do a somersault and announce soon increased government spending including spending on job creation programs? 
It will take me only one minute to explain to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  that it is not the Government that is naive; it is he who is naive. The fact is that the Government realised full well what it was doing when it took away from families the benefits which should be theirs. That is why the Opposition stated so clearly earlier in this debate,in its amendment to the motion for the second reading, that this Bill fails to take measures to alleviate the increase in family tax burdens which has arisen as a result of the Government's failure to index family allowances. We have had our say on that particular measure. It is no good the honourable member for MacKellar thinking that he can move an amendment like this to achieve his purpose.  His  amendment will not achieve that purpose. If he knew the taxation Act as well as I know the taxation Act, immodest though I am in saying so- I realise, of course that immodesty does not become me- he would realise that in doing this he is decreasing the value of the zone allowance to the many people in Australia who deserve more in the way of the zone allowance. He is reducing the benefit for the first child from $226 to $50 and the benefit for the second and further children from, I think $170 to $50. So this is not the way to achieve what we in Opposition want to achieve, namely greater benefits for the family. That is why the Opposition cannot support the amendment in its present form. 
-The Labor Opposition is not happy with many aspects of these eight Bills. Therefore, on behalf of the Australian Labor Party, I move the following amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Income Tax (Rates) Amendment Bill (No. 2): 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that the Bill (a) contains changes to the personal tax system which are regressive in nature and which will have little effect in stimulating economic activity, (b) repudiates the Government's commitment to full tax indexation, (c) fails to take measures to alleviate the increase in family tax burdens which have arisen as a result of the Government's failure to index family allowances, and (d) contains insufficient measures to counter tax avoidance practices '. 
Let me now substantiate each one of those four points by discussing these Bills in more detail. We are discussing eight Bills. Six of them have as their main purpose the implementation of the tax changes announced in the 1977-78 Budget. Of the others, the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 3) provides for the reinstatement of the income tax exemption in respect of income derived from the sale, transfer or assignment of a right to mine for gold or for certain prescribed minerals and metals, and the Income Tax (International Agreements) Amendment Bill gives legislative authority to tax agreements negotiated between Australia and Belgium and between Australia and Greece. The last Bill follows the pattern of those negotiated by successive governments, and all the Bills have been welcomed by the Opposition. Indeed, we brought a number of these agreements into the House ourselves and put them through this chamber when we were in government. The prime motivation for the introduction of the deductibility of the sale of mining ore rights, of course, has something to do with an election, particularly in the electorate of Kalgoorlie. My only comment about that is that pork-barrelling in not dead. 
Let me look in more detail to the main Bills. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  described in his Budget speech the changes his Government intended making to the personal income tax scales as 'the most revolutionary change yet made to Australia's system of taxation'. That is the end of the quote, and that is enough. In his second reading speech to the Income Tax (Rates) Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1977, he emphasised this point and repeated his belief in the revolutionary nature of the new system. In this instance I agree with the Treasurer. He has made a revolutionary change to our tax system. Unfortunately, the revolutionary nature of the change does not stem from any of the differences the Treasurer found between the new scales and those previously in operation. The changes are revolutionary only because they represent a blatant and undisguised attempt to redistribute the tax burden to middle and low income earners from those already relatively well off. This has not been done for a great many years. The principle on which taxation has been based in Australia is ability to pay, and the transfers of benefits have been from haves to have-nots. In these amendments the tax scales are changed in such a way that the transfer is the other way, from have-nots to haves. The changes made are unashamedly regressive in nature, as we say in the amendment. I will return to this later. 
Let me first point out that the changes the Treasurer regarded as revolutionary were simply a replacement of a tax rebate with a tax-free income zone and the reduction of the number of steps in the income tax scale from seven to three- or seven to four if we count the first nontaxable zone as one step. The revolution is not in the form of the new system but in its relative incidence. The Treasurer claimed in his Budget Speech and in this second reading speech to the Rates Amendment Bill that the new tax system has as its most important benefit tax reductions at all levels of taxable income. As many independent observers have indicated, it takes a rather dubious method of comparison to validate this particular claim. The very best that can be said is that many taxpayers will receive on February 1978 the benefits they would have gained from indexation in July 1978, some five months earlier. 
Calculations by, for instance,  Mr Eric  Risstrom, the Secretary of the Australian Taxpayers Association, demonstrate that those on present incomes between $5,200 and $6,200 will be worse off in 1978-79 under the new scales and half indexation than they would have been with a continuation of the pre-Budget scales and indexation according to legislation already on the statute book. A larger group, those on present incomes between $4,800 and $7,200, will pay a greater percentage of their income in tax in 1978-79 than they will in this financial year. It has been estimated that some one million middle and lower income earners will be adversely affected in this manner. 
The fundamental reason for the total effect of that tax change not leading to a drop in taxation for everyone, as seems to have been claimed by the Government, is the repudiation of the commitment to full tax indexation. For 1978-79 the new scales are only to be subject to half indexation. This makes a mockery of the Government's talk of full automatic indexation. In three years we will have had full, partial and now half indexation. The commitment has been watered down every year. Obviously, this has been done to limit the costs to revenue of the changes. There may well be good reasons for such action. Perhaps the Government had decided that increased capital works spending would be a far more effective way of stimulating the economy than tax cuts. The Fraser Government must not be allowed to have it both ways. It cannot take steps to limit the cost of revenue and at the same time claim it is making 'tax reductions at all levels of income'. That just is not true. Professor John Neville of the University of New South Wales summed up the impact of the Government's tax changes in assessing the economic impact of the 1977 Budget He told members of a North Shore economic society: 
Despite  Mr Lynch  's brave or perhaps just misleading words, most people will be paying a greater proportion of their income in tax in 1977-78 than in 1976-77. 
He deduced this fact from the Budget forecast regarding movements in net pay-as-you-earn receipts. The amount of income to be taxed is to rise by 11.25 per cent and the tax receipts will rise by 17 per cent. If Treasury's calculations are correct, the average rate of tax will rise in 1977-78, despite all the claims made by the Fraser Government. 
I have just instanced examples in which independent analysts have expressed the belief that the sum total of the Government's tax changes will be to increase rather than decrease the burden of taxation on many income earners. However, it is true that some taxpayers, particularly those earning considerably in excess of average weekly earnings, will gain substantially from the changes. This is the essence of the regressive nature of the changes. The alterations are regressive because the benefits accrue predominantly to those on relatively high incomes. 
While middle and low income earners will find their average rate of tax rising in 1978-79, those on incomes above $25,000 will find their average tax burden lightened by between 5 per cent and 7 per cent. On another comparison, a taxpayer on average weekly earnings will, as of 1 July next, pay $ 1 less in tax than under the existing indexation arrangements to make up for increases in the cost of living. By contrast, somebody on the salary of a Prime Minister will have $64 extra a week with which to amuse himself. 
The Government's priority of giving high income earners substantial tax cuts m a time of record unemployment has been condemned by many eminent and respected people. Professor Ronald Henderson, Chairman of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, severely criticised the Government for its new tax system and its policy towards the unemployed. On the Melbourne edition of the program  This Day Tonight  he stated that the Budget redistributed income in favour of the rich. The newspaper of the Anglican Church,  Church Scene,  went so far as to condemn the community at large because the community had passively allowed 'a government to change the tax scales to give maximum benefit to the very rich '. 
When the changes to the tax scales we are presently debating are combined with other tax changes introduced by the present Government, a further pattern of the Government's redistributive policies emerges. In the 1976 Budget, the Government introduced the system of family allowances to replace child endowment and tax rebates for dependent children. This in itself was a worthwhile reform and was welcomed by the Opposition, although we did not want it done at the expense of so many deserving people who lost the family tax rebate. However, to add insult to injury, failure to index those family allowances has meant a relative erosion of family incomes. If the 1975-76 system of tax rebates and child endowment had continued and if the child rebate had been indexed in line with other rebates, thousands upon thousands of taxpaying families, the vast majority- in fact all on $240 a week or less, which I believe constitute about 80 per cent of tax-paying families- would be better off now than under the proposed tax scales we are now debating, plus the present family allowance. The disadvantage under the family allowance system varies from $1.80 for a family with one child to $5.30 for a family with five children. In the words of Professor Groenewegen of Sydney University: 
The introduction of the family allowance scheme praised by the Prime Minister as one of the greatest social reforms of the post-war period is largely a cleverly disguised tax rip-off. 
They are not my words: They are the words of Professor Groenewegen, one of the few academics who specialises in the tax field. Put in another way, Ross Gittins, the economics editor of the  Sydney Morning Herald,  said: 
The Government 's ' most significant social reform ' of 1 976 is saving it a lot of money one year later. 
Of course  Mr Gittins  was referring to the fact that family allowances have not been indexed. In other words the cumulative effects of the Fraser Government's tax changes in distributing income away from low income families can be seen by comparing tax rates in 1978-79 as they will be with those that would have existed under the fully indexed 1975-76 scales. This comparison reveals that a family with five children and an income of $200 a week will be over $6 a week worse off as a result of this Government's tax changes. On the other hand, a family with one child and an income of $400 a week will be over $7 a week better off. 
The Government has put forward a rather curious justification for its tax changes. Frankly, one would have thought that equity could not have been a paramount consideration because of the extraordinary effects I have cited. Let me quote from the Treasurer's Budget Speech, misleading though it is. The Treasurer said: 
The present tax scale is not only inequitable, it is having devastating effects on incentive and the will to work. 
It takes an imagination far more subtle than mine to conjure up a rationale as to how the changes made have added to equity. Of course they have not; and I have already proved that. The second question, the disincentive effect, raised by the Treasurer has been referred to by many of the Government supporters; but they have not produced any objective evidence to support their case. The very fact that one asserts that high taxation levels are a disincentive to work effort does not mean that one is correct in that assertion. 
I want to make it quite clear that I am not arguing for higher direct tax levels. I believe the threshhold in personal income tax has been reached. The Labor Party is not a high personal tax party. It is not a high tax party at all. What I am arguing is that it is wrong to use reasons such as disincentive effect when they do not apply. For, on available evidence, although some people reduce their work effort when extra income attracts high marginal tax rates- and we concede that some people do- others increase their working time m order to obtain a given income in order to pay for particular goods to which they are committed or to which they aspire. The substitution effect occurs when a person decides to substitute leisure for work because the returns from extra work effort are low and falling as a result of the high marginal tax rate. However, the income effect occurs because a taxpayer may experience an increased incentive to work in order to recover income lost through taxation. There is no way of determining conclusively, on available evidence, which of these two effects will predominate in a given country or community. Anyway, I believe that the effects are likely to alter over time, depending on other circumstances. The Asprey Committee reported: 
Commonsense reasoning suggests that the higher a marginal rate of tax in relationship to average rates, the more is the substitution effect likely to outweigh the income effect; but psychological and sociological forces obviously play a major role in determining the work efforts of a particular individual, while the ability of taxpayers to vary the number of hours they work may be limited by such factors as the length of the minimum working week or the state of demand in the labour market. It is little wonder that empirical evidence on the effects of income tax on incentives to work has tended to be inconclusive and of hardly any guidance to policy makers . . . 
If I had time, I could also cite the work of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in this area. All I want to say in summary and in passing over that part of my speech which I had prepared, is this: In the light of this careful though inconclusive study both by the OECD and the Asprey Committee, the proponents of any tax change based on the arguments that incentives should be increased by reducing taxation need to produce new substantial evidence to support their claim. Simple assertion is completely inadequate. I talked on much the same subject as this in the speech I made on the Estimates for the Department of the Treasury. The point I want to make, and the reason why I raise this point now, is that we need more evidence, we need more surveys on this very subject and we need independent advice as well as that which is going on within the Taxation Office. Government needs to subsidise, to help, to stimulate such bodies as an independent tax research foundation so that we can build tax policy on more solid information than we have at the present time. I raise this point about the incentive effects of taxation for that reason but also to clear away the humbug that surrounds the subject. 
There are many good reasons for lower personal taxation. There is no need to raise improper reasons or unproven reasons, which are probably false, particularly when those unproven reasons lead to the relatively better-off getting the benefits at the expense of the more needy in our community. That is what has happened. The rationale has been that we must give the better-off people in our community the will and the incentive to work. There is no evidence that that is the result of this sort of action. 
The Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill also contains provisions relating to the eligibility of capital expenditure for purposes of tax deductibility. Deductions are to be allowed for capital expenditure on natural gas liquefaction plant. As my colleague the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  pointed out during the debate on the North West Shelf proposals, the Opposition does not oppose this move. The investment allowance provisions are to be extended by two years. At the time the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  made his statement on the North West Shelf it was not clear whether the extension of the allowance was to relate solely to expenditure involved in that project. Frankly it is now clear that it is to be extended for eligible investment in all areas. I think the Government will be sorry that it has to do this. I have a fairly clear idea that the Government is sorry about the promise it made in relation to the investment allowance two years ago during an election campaign because it realises that the investment allowance has, if anything, caused a decrease in employment rather than an increase in employment. It has caused an investment deepening rather than an investment widening. It has caused automation and has resulted in people being off work or not getting jobs rather than in the creation of employment. 
The Opposition has made its position on the investment allowance clear on a number of occasions. There is virtually no evidence to show that the allowance has stimulated any investment which would not have taken place in the normal course of events. That statement is true not only of Australia. Wherever one looks in the world for the result of measures such as the investment allowance one finds that they have not achieved the purpose which they were designed to achieve. The allowance has contributed nothing to solving the unemployment problem. The revenue forgone would have been far better spent in other areas. In fact, by subsidising capital, the allowance has probably led to a reduction in employment opportunities. It has encouraged investment deepening rather than investment widening. It is difficult to imagine that the exaggerated claims of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of the effect of wage levels on unemployment are connected with a real concern for the unemployed. If the Government were really concerned with the unemployed situation would it really continue an incentive to shed labour, for this appears to be the only impact which the investment allowance is having? However, let me make it clear that the Australian Labor Party in government will phase out this wasteful allowance responsibility, honouring existing commitments. 
These tax Bills contain arrangements for a new system of tax averaging for primary producers. It is worth recalling the circumstances m which this scheme was introduced. The 1977-78 Budget papers contained provisions which effectively eliminated tax averaging for farmers. It was quickly apparent that the dubious claim by the Treasurer that the Budget brought tax gains to all could by no stretch of the imaginaton be applied to the farming community. The outcry raised, in which the Opposition played a not insignificant part, forced the Prime Minister to repudiate a section of his Treasurer's Budget. The significance of this move should not be dismissed lightly. Within a week of being brought down, the Budget, the cornerstone of this Government's economic management, had its revenue side altered substantially. The Ministryin particular those who claimed for themselves a special role in protecting the interest of rural producers-had failed adequately to examine their own budget and they allowed through something that was of grave disservice to the primary producers of this nation. 
They were seen to be in disarray in trying to salvage the situation, in making last minute, overdue alterations to the tax averaging provisions. This was the crowning example of the confusion and ad hockery which pervades policy making under this Government. The Government launched a so-called 'revolutionary' new tax scheme without even knowing how it would affect a significant number of taxpayers. Of course, more confusion was to follow. The Treasurer and the Prime Minister found it impossible to agree on the cost of the new scheme. The Treasurer could not even agree with himself from one day to another, and we remember with amusement what happened immediately after the Budget was introduced. The averaging scheme with which the Government has come up will add a further $50m to the deficit. It should be noted that this Government, which has always expressed such great concern about the deficit, has not released an estimate of the expected deficit following the rapid alterations to its Budget, made so soon after that Budget was announced. 
No attempt is to be made to limit averaging to those who are genuine primary producers. The scope for exploitation by Pitt and Collins Street farmers is still there. One would have thought that what the Government sees as the added generosity of its revised scheme would have prompted it to tighten up the eligibility provisions. In a time when rural industries are at their most depressed level in recent years any genuine attempt to aid them is to be welcomed. It remains to be seen whether alterations to the averaging scheme, which will have little immediate effect on those who have had several low income years, is the most appropriate measure for doing just that- aiding the more hardpressed rural community. 
Another measure introduced in the Budget, to which effect is given by these Bills, is the decision to raise the level of company tax. Company tax on both public and private companies is to be lifted from 42.5 per cent to 46 per cent and is to be payable in 1977-78. This rate of 46 per cent is unprecedented in recent years. Other income which falls within the ambit of the Income Tax (Companies and Superannuation Funds) Bill is to be subjected to an equivalent rise in taxation. It is difficult to follow the Government's rationale for this move. It has argued repeatedly that a restoration of historical levels of the share of national income going to profits was a prerequisite for economic recovery. Now it takes action which will effectively reduce the funds available to companies for further investment. Some companies will be harder hit than others. For example, those which have received negligible assistance from the investment allowance and the stock valuation adjustment schemes are to be particularly disadvantaged. Private company taxation is now to be at its highest level ever. I look to the officials to see their reaction to that statement. I cannot remember a 46 per cent rate for private companies taxation. I think that it can at least be called an unprecedented level. The Government which purports to be concerned about the plight of small business has taken action which must have a further depressing effect on this sector in the present economic climate. 
Changes are to be made to correct some anomalies which have arisen as a result of the Government's decision to emasculate Medibank. These relate to provisional tax requirements and to a decision taken to exempt the income of deceased estates to which no beneficiary is presently entitled, from payments of the health insurance levy. Unfortunately, no action is to be taken to correct more substantial anomalies. As they stand, the regulations do not allow for husband and wife insuring differently, one paying private insurance and the other the levy. Under 
E resent arrangements the married couple are both liable for the levy if they insure differently and have no children. The Government would have been well advised to take steps to rectify this anomaly which is inequitable. 
In the legislation which we are debating the Government has also taken steps to clamp down on tax avoidance practices. These steps, as far as they go, are welcomed by the Opposition. Changes are to be made to the provisions that establish when a company is a public company for the purposes of division 7 of the income tax law. These amendments are necessary to overcome a particularly iniquitous practice in which essentially private companies enter into arrangements with public hospitals and other public bodies to confer public company status on the private company. This is nothing more or less than a quasi tax avoidance scheme. The Opposition is very happy that the Government has moved to close that loophole. 
The private company in this manner is able to avoid the profits distribution requirement of division 7. The amendments will extend the number of requirements a private company has to fulfil before it will be eligible for public company status. I repeat that the Opposition supports that change. If we are to change division 7 for private companies we should do so in another context, and certainly we should not allow these sorts of tax avoidance schemes to allow one company to get away with it vis a vis another company. In his Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  referring to tax avoidance said: 
We propose to crack down hard on such practices. 
In his second reading speech to the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill he said that the Government's decision to clamp down on the use of trusts to avoid tax were 'contained' in the legislation now being introduced. As with the great majority of measures taken by this Government, its performance has fallen far short of its promises. The economics writer for the  Australian,  Russell Barton commented: 
The Treasurer,  Mr Lynch  's much vaunted crack-down on tax avoidance has begun, but with little more than a whimper. 
He was referring to these changes. 
Changes are to be made to the treatment of trusts assessed under sections 98, 99 and 99a. The new rate scale with no tax payable on income up to $3,750 has necessitated changes in the method of taxing the income of beneficiaries of inter vivos trusts assessable under section 98 to preserve the ground rules operating under preBudget conditions. The Government's major avoidance move has been in the area of section 99a trusts which accumulate funds and which have no present beneficiary. First the rate of tax on these trusts is to be raised from 50 per cent to 60 per cent and the Government has withdrawn the advantage they prossess of one year's deferral of tax. The practice where some family groups arrange for an unrelated aged person who is not expected to live much longer and who has little in the way of assets to set up multiple 'shell' trusts under a will to the benefit of members of the sponsor family is to be curtailed by bringing such estates under the scope of section 99a, This closes a loophole which existed in antiavoidance legislation passed in 1964. As the Treasurer observed, few people have used this technique to avoid tax. This was the extent of the Government's moves against the use of trusts to lower tax liability. 
The real areas of concern have not been covered. Income sharing by one form or another leads to a significant reduction in the effective rate of taxation paid by many high income earners. It has been estimated that there are about 80,000 self-employed professional people in Australia. In 1976 they earned about $2,000m. It would be expected that they would pay about $820m in tax. In fact tax receipts from this group totalled only about $560m, a shortfall of $260m. The point that I make here is that there are many other loopholes yet to be closed and the ones covered by this Bill are minimal. This is the explanation for another of the clauses in the Opposition's amendment. The Treasurer's brave words in the Budget Speech gave some of us hope that the Government was proposing wide ranging reforms in this area. Unfortunately, the actions finally taken are unlikely to cause great concern to the tax avoidance industry. Some observers have been churlish enough to suggest that the Commissioner of Taxation actually has further legislation ready, that the Government has held it back until after the election, the Government's thinking probably being that those such legislation is likely to effect would be found more readily among the ranks of its own supporters. I seek the support of the House for the amendment I have moved. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 4 October 1977: 
Is the grant-in-aid to the  Current Affairs Bulletin  published by the University of Sydney to be reduced from $20,000 to $ 1 5,000. If so, why. 
Does the Government intend phasing this grant out completely in 1978-79. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. Did he and the Prime Minister forecast in the last national election campaign two years ago a growth rate in the following year of 6 per cent to 7 per cent and 'jobs for all who want to work', to mention just two economic indicators and two broken promises? Is it not a fact that he and his party were wrong in every economic forecast they made during that election campaign? Why should we take any notice of the economic forecasts of unkown origin mentioned by the Prime Minister yesterday and by the Treasurer today in Question Time in the light of the abysmal record and the depressing information . . . 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) Did he confirm in his reply to a question without notice from the member for Grayndler on IS March 1977 that the January figures for industrial production displayed falls in production outnumbering rises by almost 3 to 1. 
Did he say that he had been informed by the Australian Bureau of Statistics that there were problems with seasonal adjustment of the January figures and the Bureau made comment of this fact in the January document. 
If so, is it a fact that in the recent January document there is no note from the Bureau regarding seasonal adjustment. 
Is the factor, allegedly making seasonal adjustments in January more complicated, such that it would still permit comparisons between January of one year and that of the next 
If so, is it a fact that, on this basis, comparisons between production levels in January 1976 and January 1977 are appropriate. 
) If so, what is the explanation for his statement outlined in part (2) 
Do comparisons between production levels in January 1976 and January 1977 suggest that, in the last 12 months, more items have had a fall in production than have had a rise. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 4 October 1977: 
1) Has his attention been drawn to a report, in the  Australian Financial Review  of 24 August 1 977 to the effect that the American Express International Banking Corporation had withdrawn a proposal it had submitted to the Government to take over Security Dealers Pry Ltd following a request that it do so. If so, is there any substance in the report. 
) If a rquest was made to American Express, who made it. 
Is the Government now asking fur the withdrawal of non-acceptable foreign investment proposals rather than formally rejecting them. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
What proportion of net private investment Australia was funded by overseas investment in each year since 1971-72. 
How much and what percentage of total company income, and income from the raining industry and manufacturing industry were payable overseas in each year since 1971-72. 
How much and what proportion of total company income, and income from the mining industry, and the manufacturing industry, were actually paid overseas in each year since 1971-72. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1977: 
Did he say in reply to my question No. 389  (Hansard,  19 April 1977, page 988), regarding reports of raids by the South African Government on the offices of the South African Council of Churches and the Christian Institute, that the Australian Embassy in Pretoria would be instructed to inform the South African authorities of the concern being expressed in Australia about action being taken against these organisations. 
If so, is it a fact that this expression of concern was not made to South African authorities until September. 
If the position is as stated, what was the reason for this delay. 
-First of all, I wish to convey my congratulations to the  Speaker  and to the  Chairman  of Committees on being elected to their high offices. I hope,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as I am sure you do, that under their chairmanship this Parliament will achieve a greater respect in the Australian community than it now enjoys or, should I say, suffers. At the beginning of this new Parliament, perhaps I should state that I hope to play some part in improving that respect. 
We must continuously seek ways to reform this institution. But with all its faults, I believe the Westminster system which we seek to operate is probably better than any of its alternatives. However, it needs to be better understood by the people it serves. Personally, I am watching with great interest the experiments in the British House of Commons relating to selective televising of its proceedings. Of course we have many warts. All of us in this place have them. In theory, we are supposed to be a cross-section of the community. People outside in the wider community do not suggest that they do not have warts. They should not be surprised, therefore, every time they learn that we, their representatives, have our faults. But their closer interest and observation of us, perhaps at closer quarters, should help enormously to reduce the number of faults and warts that we have. Perhaps a selective televising of our proceedings such as is being experimented with in the House of Commons might help to bring about that improved standard. 
One of the things that needs to be learnt by people outside this institution is that this Westminister system we practise is essentially a competitive one. It is built on the principle that competition brings the best results, even if in doing so it does not bring out the best in people. There is a government and there is an opposition. They are competitors for power; for the people's favours. The very shape of the chamber lends itself to that competition. In these circumstances, it is ridiculous to support the Westminister system on the one hand and then to criticise the competition that takes place in the system. Furthermore it has to be realised that the Parliament is a safety valve. People are different. They lead different kinds of lives. Their experiences are different. Yet from the varying premises from which they come, we must seek harmony. No wonder there is tension while we strive for that harmony. If this institution is fulfilling its purpose, this place is where the tensions should work themselves out. No wonder there is disruption every now and then when the safety valve blows off. I believe this should be more widely understood in the community outside this place. 
Yet we do not help ourselves to keep calm and to keep away from those disruptions with the hours we keep and the poor facilities we allow ourselves. I have not done any deep research into this, but from intuition I believe that most of the disruptions occur on a Thursday in the third week of a three-week cycle, when so many honourable members are utterly exhausted after working through to midnight or later night after night. It is no wonder, with all the travelling that is entailed in this sort of occupation, that it is at the end of a period here that the relationships break down. 
In spite of all this, there is probably more on which we all agree than disagree. That is reflected in so much of what happens in this Parliament. Particularly is this so in our committee work. But our agreements do not make news; it is our disagreements which sell the newspapers and command people's attention on their radios and their television sets. I wish this were better known also by the people we represent. I wish also that we would get on with the job of reforming this Parliament and ensuring that more and more is done in committees where informed advice is at hand and where consensus is much more likely to be achieved. I and my colleagues in the parliamentary Labor Party will facilitate in every way possible the instituting of such reforms based on the report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. 
It is in this context that I assess the GovernorGeneral 's Speech in this debate on the AddressinReply. Where I can agree with statements made in the Speech and where I have time to do so, I will do so. For instance, on this side of the chamber we do not quibble with the aim of giving the people of Australia a greater measure of choice, power and freedom. We support this aim. Our quarrel with the Government is in its interpretation of this aim. The Government's policies seem to us to give to people of material resources, of some substance- the richer people of the community- these choices, these powers and these freedoms. But do they give the vast mass of people these opportunities? Invariably they do not. 
We in the Labor Opposition do not quibble with the Government's placing 'a high priority on employment and training schemes, particularly those which increase young people's skills and enable them to take job opportunities as they arise'. We have been advocating just this and more for two years. We did something about it when in government only to see, when in Opposition, what we had done dismantled. We doubt whether the Government, with its restraint on government spending, will do enough in this area. So I could go on drawing out the odd government aim here and there which we in the Opposition will support wholeheartedly. 
But we cannot support the overall theme of the Speech read by the Governor-General. At a later stage we shall be moving an amendment to highlight our concern with this indication of the Government's program, or lack of it. Firstly I must make a comment on the overall theme of the Speech. I believe it is a complacent, gloating statement built mainly on false assumptions. I believe it is hypocritical for the Government, through its Leader on election night and again in this Speech from the throne, to talk about all Australians 'uniting in common purpose in making Australia a great nation' and 'increasing the sense of national identity'. They were the words on election night. Since then the Government has re-dedicated itself 'to govern for all Australians and to work in partnership with all groups'. They are the high sounding words in the Speech. I believe it is hypocritical to make these claims and then to use the gloating words and false assumptions and to promote the false policies that are so evident elsewhere in the Speech. Let me quote from another part of the Speech to make my point: 
After two years of hard work and substantial achievement, Australians now look to the future with new found confidence. 
That is just arrant nonsense! What are the achievements of the last two years? Where is the confidence? The inflation rate has fallen, that we can see. But that fall was on the way when this Government came into power. The rate of inflation was reducing at that time. Further achievements have been made in spite of the Government and in spite of the ways in which it has pursued its policies at such enormous cost. Is there anyone who would deny that the devaluation of November 1976 did not add to costs. That was just one grave Fraser Government error. Is there anyone who would deny that the Government's deferment of company quarterly tax payments for some months did not lead to inflation worse than it otherwise would have been? ls there anyone who will deny that the meddling with Medibank added to the costs of the Australian community- 3.2 per cent in one quarter? Is there anyone who will deny that the relative cut in funds to the States has led to increased State charges? To top it all off, there has been a reduction in the powers of the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission. Both bodies are working for improvements in efficiency and thus lower prices; yet they are denied adequate staff to achieve their purposes and they have their charter changed so as to deny them the opportunity to do more in restraining prices. 
Inflation was falling when the Labor Government was defeated. Adequate pruning of government spending was tackled in the last Labor Budget. So much that has happened since has caused a postponement of achievement in the light against inflation and so much more could have been done to bring down the rate of inflation if those items of policy which I have listed had not been pursued. I repeat: At what cost have these policies been pursued, for example, in terms of the registered unemployed. Ignoring the enormous problem of the hidden unemployed referred to by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  yesterday- those wives at home who would like to get out into the work force but who realise it is useless for them to register for a nonexistent job when no unemployment benefits are available- the number of registered unemployed has risen from 343,939 in January 1976, which was bad enough, to 445,300 in January 1978, which is the last known figure. That is a rise of 101,361 during the two years of this Fraser Government or from 5.6 per cent of the work force, which was bad enough, to 7.2 per cent. 
But it is not only for the unemployed that we must grieve. There has been in the two years of the Fraser Government a severe reduction in the standard of living for thousands upon thousands of Australian wage and salary earners. Average weekly earnings have not risen at the same rate as the cost of living has risen. This is only one indication of the assertion that I make about that decline in the standard of living. I quote: 
After two years of hard work and substantial achievement, Australians now look to the future with new found confidence. 
I am repeating the words from a paragraph in the Governor-General's Speech, or the speech that he was obliged to read, to show what hypocrisy there is, what rubbish there is. How can a government achieve that 'uniting in common purpose', that 'national identity', that 'working in partnership with all groups' and all those other high sounding purposes which have been given publicity recently- they strike a responsive chord and we all would like to achieve themwhen it makes unsubstantiated and indeed untrue claims such as the ones that I have already listed, and there are many more in the Speech? 
It is one thing for a politically partisan government to make these claims, inconsistent though they are with achieving consensus, but it is quite another thing to put them into the mouth of a Governor-General in the way this was done- a Governor-General who must be put above politics. If these things must be said, then for goodness sake let the speech writers put the words in a different way, such as 'my advisers are of the view' or 'are of the opinion that this is so' instead of 'It is the Governor-General's own opinion', at a time when we are trying to get some sort of consensus in this country and respect for its institutions. 
The second point I want to make about this Speech in criticism of it- I hope it is valid criticismrelates to the false assumptions. The greatest of all is that a government cannot fight unemployment at the same time as fighting inflation. This is the assumption on which the Fraser Government is building its policies. The two can be fought simultaneously, we on this side assert, and they must be fought simultaneously. Our economy cries out for a stimulus from government. Our industry and commerce are in desperate need of it, provided it is given in a modest, sensible way. We need more public works using known available resourcesunemployed resources. We need local government improvement programs, again using available resources and not leading to any competition which will bid up prices. We need more of those training and retraining schemes which I have mentioned already. It is a scandal that we are short of many skills at a time when there is so much underemployment of men, women and resources. We need this modest, stimulatory government spending which we on this side have been advocating for so long, because the level of economic activity in this day and age is determined by a partnership between government and business. The Australian Labor Party is determined to improve this partnership. 
I break off here to state that I am glad that the Government's actions do not always follow its words. Part of my front bench shadow ministerial responsibilities on behalf of the Labor Opposition relate to the Department of Productivity, in addition to the Department of Industry and Commerce and the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. I anticipate that over the years that I am in this job there will be little, if any, criticism from me in respect of what is being tackled by the Department of Productivity. There are some valuable government enterprises seeking always greater efficiency. There is a projected improvement in the patent services relating to inventions, designs and trade marks, and these services can be of very valuable assistance to the private sector and to Australian enterprises generally. In the Department of Productivity there are the new productivity projects bringing together people working in the same field so that they can interact with each other, stimulate each other and work towards that greater efficiency which is so essential if we are to achieve greater competitiveness and that greater productivity which is vital to the achievement of a higher standard of living. Here we have the Government creating that neutral ground by bringing people together. I am delighted to learn how many in business in the private sector are responding with enthusiasm to the opportunities being provided by government. 
We in the Labor Party welcome these innovations. They are so much a part of our philosophy of achieving a closer relationship between the public and private sectors to attain our common purpose of a more fulfilling life for the people we represent. But what is being done does conflict with that stated principle of the Liberal and National Country parties which is repeated in the Governor-General 's speech as follows: 
Rigorous restraint of Government expenditure so as to provide for longer term expansion in the private sector. 
In the modern world so often we need the government spending in order to stimulate the longer term expansion in all sectors of the community, public and private, which we want so badly for an increased level of activity and full employment. Let me state here, because I forgot to say it earlier, that, if we can by government spending provide stimulus in the ways I have mentioned and in other ways achieve that expansion in production which we all want, then this not only will reduce unemployment but also will be another achievement in the fight against inflation. More production means more economies of scale, less cost per unit of output. In other words, it means lower prices. That is what we mean when we say that the Government can tackle unemployment as well as inflation. 
I mentioned earlier that my leader has given me the task of being the shadow Minister for Industry and Commerce- for business generally. It would be foolhardly for me to lay down a policy in these early weeks. I, and my Labor colleagues outside and inside this Parliament, will be consulting widely during this year in particular and then testing our policies in the succeeding period leading up to the next election. However, I have no quarrel with the opening paragraph under the heading 'Growth and Development' in the Governor-General's Speech, which is the subject of this debate. It reads: 
Essential to my Government's economic program is the growth of Australian industry, the development of our resources, and a renewed emphasis on growth in exports. These hold the key to greater prosperity and the creation of more jobs. 
This is the aim of my party too. We must create those extra jobs if we are to tackle Labor's primary aim in this economic field- full employment in conditions of price stability. If our educated people are to have jobs which are satisfying, then we must have a variety of jobs to offer the community. We cannot be just a quarry for the rest of the world and/or people who just take in each other's washing in the tertiary sector. We must have a manufacturing industry to provide that variety of job opportunities, to provide sufficient opportunities to employ everbody. But, to get these economies of scale which make it not only efficient but also competitive, in many spheres our manufacturing industry must be built on exports. We shall be investigating and assessing the Government's policy in this export market development area with great interest and energy during the life of this Parliament and we shall be providing our own alternative program in the export area if we are not satisfied with the Government's program. What our industries want more than anything else is stable markets at home. They want customers. That is why our Labor program of economic stimulus is so important. Yes, it was rejected at the last election. We are bloodied by that experience but we are unbowed by it. 
We were in office- never in power, only in office- at a time when an international economic crisis overtook the world. We are blamed for it by the people, although the same phenomenon was happening everywhere else on this globe. Two years was too short a period for the people to change their minds about the causes of that economic downturn which occurred when we were in office. But they will come to realise that our policies are right. We shall continue to advocate this stimulus and this expansion which are so vitally needed. The whole community requires urgently a policy of general expansion, a stimulus from government to provide that demand which is so essential for greater production and development. There seems to me to be so little recognition of this in the Governor-General's Speech. There is little recognition that our problems are structural. That is why I must pay a tribute to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  for drawing the attention of the House to this matter in his maiden speech. I hope I will not ruin his career by saying that he was repeating what we on this side of the House have been saying for so long. I will deal with these subjects on a future occasion because I notice that my time has expired. 
-The Minister for Industry and Commerce will be aware of the disastrous state of the motor manufacturing industry, among many industries, at the present time. Is it a fact that the most recent motor registration figures show an alarming drop? Is the Minister urgently conferring with representatives of the industry and, if so, which representatives? Will the Minister consider applying a reduction in sales taxes to stimulate the industry? What plans are there to rationalise the industry and make it more competitive? When does the Minister anticipate making an announcement on policy decisions relating to these matters? 
I point out that the Opposition does not oppose the reappointment of any of the standing committees. I state that now to facilitate the business of the House. Each one of these committees was engaged in important work when the last Parliament was rudely brought to a halt without due respect for our system, despite certain things which had been said in Bombay. It is right and proper that the committees should be reappointed to enable them to get on with that work. 
-While Nero fiddles, Rome burns. Where is the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)?  The Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  sits at the table yet a back bencher seeks to answer very inadequately the points raised in this debate. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
-In relation to the Industries Assistance Commission Amendment Bill 1978, the first of the two Bills being debated in this cognate debate, on behalf of the Opposition, I move the following amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'Whilst not opposing the second reading of the Bill, the House deplores the actions of the Government: 
in not having a medium or long term economic strategy, including a viable manufacturing policy, upon which to base general and consistent guidelines necessary for, among other things, the proper functioning of the Industries Assistance Commission, and 
in threatening the basic independence of the Industries Assistance Commission, by its emphasis upon narrow and variable guidelines, and by its consistent failure to appreciate the advisory role intended for the Industries Assistance Commission.' 
I hope that there will be some support for the sentiments of the amendment from the Government side of the House, from some honourable members who have been very energetic in ensuring the independence of the IAC. 
Let me now put the institution of the IAC and these Bills into a proper perspective. We in the Australian Labor Party are determined to do our utmost to achieve full employment for this nation. Our interpretation of the phrase 'full employment' is a job for everyone who wants to be in the work force; at any one time the same number of job vacancies as there are people seeking jobs. All of this we want in the context of stable prices and an increased standard of living. That is our aim. We do not believe that this will come about by sitting back and letting the market achieve it. That may have worked in another day and age. Perhaps it worked in the 1950s and 1 960s. Structural changes have taken place since the 1950s and the 1960s in such a way as to prevent the old means from achieving full employment- the old macro-economic levers. 
The only way in which our nation will return to full employment is by forging a partnership between business, or the private sector, and government, or the public sector, and planning for it. Ours is one of the last countries of its kind to adopt some sort of medium and long term planning, and we are all worse off because of that fact. I hasten to say that by planning we do not mean bureaucracy and directives and all those unpleasant features which a society of free people like ours will not tolerate. We mean sitting down and focussing on the medium and long-term economic and social perspectives for our country. We mean talented people in government, State as well as Federal, in the academic spheres, in business, and in the trade unions coming up with some objectives as to where we should be aiming. We mean the elected government having the final say as to what the targets should be, fully aware that unless there has been some consensus, say through an economic advisory council, in the advice given to the elected government, the Federal Government would have little likelihood of achieving those targets. 
This is a cryptic background to the Labor Party decision to set up in government a department of economic development. When the Opposition is returned to government this department will have a major division drawing together this advice and ensuring that there is focus on a medium and long-term strategy. One of its major tasks will be to force government to make the hard decisions relating to what industries we should concentrate on in order to achieve full employment and the higher standard of living that I mentioned earlier. It goes without saying that unless we restructure up into those things which we do best, we shall continue to suffer not only the present high rates of unemployment but also the present poor rates of growth which are responsible for our standard of living virtually standing still or, more recently, going downhill. 
Until this basic hard work is done and these hard decisions are taken it is difficult for any of us to be dogmatic about the shape of our economy in the future. It is difficult for us to be dogmatic about which regions of our country should be saved or should grow. We must obtain the raw material, advice and information, to which I have referred already, on which to base these decisions. Because we have suffered conservative government for so much of our recent history, we have not attempted to set up the mechanisms to collect the necessary information. We have not grappled with the fundamental, difficult decisions to which I have just alluded. The Vernon Committee report in the 1960s suggested that there should be a focussing on a medium or longterm economic strategy. The Menzies Liberal and Country Party Government of the day scuttled the idea and pigeon-holed the report. This was but one example of a missed opportunity to have that focus on a medium or longterm economic strategy. The opportunity went down the drain. 
Subsequently we have all suffered. The market place has been the idol at the feet of which we have all been forced to worship. It has not provided us with all the correct answers. That is one of the reasons why we have had a poor rate of growth in this country. It has been in this context that the Industries Assistance Commission and its predecessor the Tariff Board have been forced to work. Insufficient guidelines have been set down by the elected government for that institution. It is no wonder that so much of what has resulted has given the appearance of restructuring down rather than restructuring up. We have learnt about where our resources should not be applied but we have not learnt where those resources should be substituted. We have learnt about where we are not efficient or competitive but we have not learnt about where we are efficient and competitive. This has not been the fault of the IAC or the old Tariff Board; it has been the fault of elected governments not grasping nettles such as the one I indicated earlier and not indicating the answers to the hard questions. The LAC has been used merely as a fireman charged with the task of putting out grass fires around the place as they were lit. 
We all have hunches as to what some of the answers to this medium and long-term focus will be. Surely we should be upgrading our minerals to a much greater extent and not being the quarry for the rest of the world to such an extent. Surely we could be the Switzerland of this part of the world and use our higher standard of education to build up high technology industries. Surely we are going to need a thriving manufacturing industry to employ gainfully and rewardingly all those whom we want to see employed. I defined earlier what I meant by full employment. Although we may pay our way in a national sense by exporting primary products, the products of mining as well as farming, there would not be sufficient rewarding jobs if we concentrate merely on tertiary industries or, as the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  might say, not only the tertiary but also the quaternary and quinary industries as well. These are just some of the hunches but they must be more than hunches; they must be hard decisions. It has been and will be unfair on the IAC to work without those decisions or guidelines. In the meantime this has been its history. It works in a vacuum. It needs a medium or long-term economic strategy decided by government if it is to function properly. 
We in the Labor Opposition have no hang-ups about a direction being given to the IAC but we do have some concern, some suspicion, about the form of the guidelines or the directives, as we might almost call them, which are possible under the alterations to the Industries Assistance Commission charter in the legislation now being debated. Let me now be more specific. The Opposition does not oppose the second reading of this Bill. As I have indicated, the Opposition is moving an amendment to it. But we are in genera! agreement with any attempt to ensure that the advice of the IAC takes due regard of the emphasis of overall government policy. As I said earlier, we recognise the need for the Government to provide the IAC with greater guidelines regarding general objectives. We are concerned, however, about the spirit of the legislation, especially the true motives behind the amendment to the Industries Assistance Commission Act outlined in the Bill. We are concerned about the possible misuse which might arise in the future. Our concern is more about what the current Government will do with the powers provided, not with the powers themselves. Our fear is that the amendments, particularly those outlined in clause 8 of the Bill, fail to go far enough and, in another sense, go too far in the pursuit of the principle of clarifying the general guidelines to be taken into account by the IAC. 
Let me explain this concern a little further. The Opposition fears that the amendments to section 22 of the Act, as outlined in clause 8 of the Bill, are in danger of being the basis for incomplete and inconsistent guidelines. This, in turn, will not improve the chances of the IAC doing a better, more complete job of advising the Government and that is its role. These fears are best highlighted by reminding ourselves of the original intentions for the establishment of the IAC, set out by  Sir John  Crawford in the report which was adopted by the Whitlam Labor Government.  Sir John  Crawford, in advising the Whitlam Government, recognised that 'broad policy guidelines ' were necessary for the satisfactory functioning of the IAC. He reached the following conclusion in his report: 
There will always be argument about the criteria which the Commission should use for deciding how much assistance to recommend for different industries. But this argument is likely to be more wide-ranging, and perhaps also more distracting and confusing to the Commission, if it is concerned not only with how the Commission derives its criteria from certain broad policy objectives, but also with what those objectives should be. 

 Sir John's recommendations regarding those broad guidelines were incorporated in section 22 of the 1973 Act which the legislation we are now debating seeks to alter. Subsequent experience, however, has revealed the need for perhaps a more explicit restatement of these guidelines. In particular, the IAC needs to be seen to be operating within the context of objectives which take into account both current circumstances and the hindsight provided by experience. The economic downturn has emphasised the point that decisions to adjust assistance levels to industry, whilst not being appropriate instruments for the pursuit of short term macro-economic objectives of economic policy, may have an important bearing on current economic conditions* It is not appropriate therefore for the IAC to appear to ignore the interaction between stabilisation policies on the one hand and industry policies on the other. 
In addition, the Industries Assistance Commission's interpretation of old section 22 of the Act makes it essential that the guidelines should be dealt with in more detail so that the Commission is required to give more explicit consideration to the interaction between the 'efficiency' objective and the other objectives set down. It should also be required to give attention to the reasons for its de-emphasis upon the Government's desire, as expressed in the Act to 'facilitate adjustment to changes in the economic environment, by the industries and people affected by such changes' and to give attention to the wisdom of its apparent rejection of any government intervention in the economy which is not general and not market-orientated. 
These sorts of considerations could be achieved by the amendments as set out in clause 8 of this Bill. However, we on this side of the House suspect that the present Government will be incapable of providing the necessary guidelines for the new paragraphs (a) (aa) of section 22 as they are written in this Bill. These new paragraphs require a considerable degree of interpretation by the IAC and by the Government itself. However, this interpretation will be plagued by the inconsistencies and incapabilities apparent in the policy pronouncements of the Government. The Fraser Government has no medium or long term strategy. That is why it is so difficult for the IAC to be able to interpret how to restructure up. It is left with the task of restructuring down. 
The meaning to be attached to the phrases in this Bill, such as 'sustained growth through balanced development of Australian industries'this is one of the objectives given the IAC, and all of us who study this Bill need to be cynical of how that can be achieved- and 'improve efficiency while ensuring that any measures are taken only after having due regard of the capacity of the economy to sustain those changes . . .', will be obscured by the Government's confusion about the priorities before it. 
There are many examples of this. Let me cite some of them. First, the amendments, when read in conjunction with those in clause 8 and clause 10, appear to indicate the Government's concern over preventing any further deterioration in the unemployment situation. We could all, of course, support that sentiment. However, this apparent concern for employees in the manufacturing sector is called into doubt when we consider the Government's last Budget containing neither substantial unemployment relief measures nor provisions for structural adjustment assistance. Indeed, last May Cabinet rejected a proposal to conduct a major inquiry into the nature of the present unemployment situation. Secondly, the Government's apparent concern over protecting jobs is put into doubt by its failure to refute arguments that increased protection cannot, in all cases, protect jobs in the short run. It leads to lower, not higher, levels of employment in the long run. Thirdly, time and time again the Government has stated that its first priority is the reduction of inflation. Since the use of tariff protection measures to attempt to reduce unemployment is itself inflationary, the Government's statements on the tariff front are inconsistent with its stated aim to reduce inflation before it attempts to reduce unemployment. These are examples of inconsistencies that are very apparent in the Government's approach to these matters. I could go on and on with other examples. 
The Government's desire to protect industries by preventing losses and so maintaining employment, good in itself, is in contrast with the fact that in so many cases increased protection has only led to increased profits and not to increased employment. We have only to read the last annual report of the Industries Assistance Commission to see many examples of that being so. On the contrary, in many cases such protection has feather-bedded the profits of highly protected industries and has not led to increased employment at all. 
Finally, the White Paper on Manufacturing Industry was characterised by a distinct contradiction between long and short term policies towards industry. The long term appeared to come down solidly on the side of the need to accept change and to encourage resources to move into areas where Australia has natural advantages. I have already explained the Opposition's support of such an attitude. But the short term stand taken in that White Paper had a heavily protectionist bias, which in so many cases was inconsistent with the long term aim. No recognition was given, therefore, to the problems of striking a balance between allowing for change on the one hand and attempting to insulate industries from change on the other hand. I come back to the need to restructure up, not down, which is what has been going on so readily in recent years. 
These are just some of the contradictions and inconsistencies apparent in the Government's approach to industry policy which will no doubt confuse and hamper the functioning of the IAC. It is likely, therefore, that the 'additional matters' and the 'directions as to priorities', referred to in the new sub-sections (2) and (3) of section 22 of the Act will reflect those inconsistencies and contradictions, and may simply lead to a selection of piecemeal and ad hoc guidelines which will largely defeat the purpose of the amendments to section 22. 
That the Minister is empowered under this legislation to give supplementary guidelines to the Commission is symptomatic that the Government is not clear in its thinking about what it wants the IAC to do. Surely it could write in a comprehensive set of guidelines now rather than do so at the last moment when pressed by some lobbyist group or other to do so. It means that governments in future will be subject to the most intense lobbying from both sides of industry as to what the guidelines should be for any particular inquiry. It means that the IAC, perhaps with each reference, could have a different set of guidelines and there will be no overall objective look at what should be happening in our industries. 
Yes, except in the annual reports. We must all commend the quality of IAC annual reports. They certainly do give an opportunity for the IAC to make comments and to inform those interested in these measures. But I still believe that it should be the government of the day which sets the overall guidelines; that it should be the elected Government establishing what is the medium and long term economic strategy within which the IAC should work. 
These problems are the direct result of the bankruptcy of the Government's 'industry strategy'. What is clearly required, and what this Government is apparently incapable of producing, is, as I have said, that a framework which would be capable of producing a consistent and broad set of guidelines within which the IAC could work. The malaise the Government finds itself in could only be corrected if the Government accepts a leadership or planning role. 
It is necessary for governments, in cooperation with business, academics, scientists, economists and others, as I indicated earlier, to try to identify those industries which might be developed in the future and which should be encouraged to develop. It is not at all clear, as I have o 1  n* i**ndicated  an.'.a.  that  - o  .6-'  forces will select the appropriate industries or will facilitate the necessary adjustments by workers and industries to this change. The recognition of these doubts should result in government decisions on policies towards industry acknowledging that a package of measures is required. By failing to adopt this approach, the Government has in many ways opted out of its real responsibilities to give us a co-ordinated approach to industry, to manpower problems, to job security, to location of industries, and to migration and education- all elements of policy that ought to be taken into account when one talks of the future of our industries and the future security and lives of our working people. 
In the sense canvassed so far, therefore, the Government is not likely to go far enough in providing proper, wider guidelines which we want for the IAC. However, in many other ways, as I have indicated in the amendment, the Government will probably go too far and in doing so, threaten the very nature of the IAC. I refer again to  Sir John  Crawford's recommendations regarding the establishment of the IAC. It was argued that the IAC's independence served two vital purposes. First, the Commission, because of its independence, could- and I quote from  Sir John  Crawford 's report:  . . . provide disinterested advice in an area of government activity which will always be subjected to conflicting pressures from special interest groups within the community. 
Measures which assist particular industries are forms of economic discrimination. If a government is to have regard for the equity of its decisions on assistance to particular industries, it must have a source of advice that takes into account the fact that those likely to gain from a particular measure tend to be more organised and articulate than those likely to lose. Secondly, I note that  Sir John  recognised with regard to the important element of independence that the Commission could:  . . . facilitate public scrutiny of an important area of government policy, by means of inquiry processes in which all interested or affected parties can participate, and reports to the Parliament which can be published. 
Such public scrutiny is an essential pre-requisite for well informed and equitable decision making in this vital area of policy making. Therefore, weakening of the independence of the IAC within broad guidelines will cast doubts on the quality and purpose of government decision making. Hence independence, in the sense defined, is a precondition for the acceptable functioning of the IAC. Contrary to the assurance of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  when introducing this Bill, I fool that tl% a  Irs *i  depen  r art r*e rC t%  a  T A  (~*  11  Va 
L11UL 111 If  independence of the  *4  111  VS  w  placed in jeopardy by the actions of the present Government. The use of narrow and variable guidelines, which appears to be the intention of the Government, is likely to realise a fear expressed by  Sir John  Crawford in the report to which I referred earlier.  His  argument was as follows:  . . . the Government would normally ask the Commission to advise it on the nature and extent of assistance which, in the Commission 's view, should be given to particular industries, and that this question would not be limited in any way. I would regard a 'restriction' as some statement or wording in the reference to the Commission which limits the range of recommendations the Commission can make about the nature and extent of assistance which should be given to the industry covered by the reference. 
Realisation of that fear has been made very much a possibility by this legislation.  Sir John  went on to say: 
When references are restricted in the way I have described, and the investigation and argument associated with certain important questions is pursued privately elsewhere, the Government is obviously substantially preempting the formal advisory process the Commission has been established to pursue. It is depriving itself of certain widely accepted advantages of the process, and especially the opportunity it provides for public and disinterested examination of benefits, costs, and possible alternatives. 
I repeat that under this legislation that independence is likely to be eroded. It will depend on how the Government acts. But the opportunity is now given to the Government to react unwisely to lobbying and therefore to erode the independence of the advice coming from the IAC. As I have said, its independence will be placed in jeopardy. On past performances, the Government will be trying to make the IAC a tool of misuse and inequitable policy making. 
The second reason for our fear that the Government's action will jeopardise the IAC's independence is the Government's persistent misunderstanding of the advisory role of the IAC. The attempts of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  at 'IAC-bashing' over the last year or so, his attempts to blame the IAC for increased unemployment- he should have placed the blame where it belongs, namely, on his own shoulders and the shoulders of his Liberal-National Country Party Governmentand his use of the IAC as a scapegoat for government actions and inactions are both a reflection of the Prime Minister's unique style of prime ministerial dominance which he is attempting to impose on Canberra and the nation and a reflection of his ignorance as to the real purpose of the IAC. We are deeply suspicious of a Prime Minister who deals with unpalatable advice not simply by rejecting it, which the Government has the right to do, but by trying to prevent the body concerned from giving that independent advice. We find it incredulous that a Prime Minister can make public statements based upon the belief that it is the IAC which makes decisions about the degree of protection when that is just not the case. There is absolutely no way in which the IAC's advice can be imposed upon government; government has the right to choose. The resultant muddle and inconsistency in policy making is becoming more evident, as are the attempts by the Government to emasculate the Commission. The IAC's independent advice, within the general constraints of acceptable and consistent guidelines, is as essential today as it was when the IAC was set up. The IAC must be allowed to continue to state the pros and cons of its recommendations and to state the nature of any conflicts it sees in the guidelines expressed to it by government. 

 Sir John Crawford saw the IAC as being an important means for achieving the co-ordination of longer term policies on assistance to Australian industry. The Government is attempting to defeat that purpose through its neglect of an industry strategy and through its attempts to muzzle the Commission. 
Let me say in conclusion that I believe that the IAC will continue to find ways of getting its message across, if only in its annual report, as was indicated earlier, no matter how the legislation is interpreted. Short of abolishing the IAC or stacking it with stooges, it will be very difficult to eliminate the Commission's integrity. With regard to that point, however, who knows what the Government will do when it discovers that it has failed to suppress the IAC from presenting the Government with unpleasant facts- facts which should be brought to our attention. 
I have spoken almost exclusively about the effect of this first Bill on the IAC. Similar concerns arise over other amendments in this Bill to the charter of the Temporary Assistance Authority. I repeat that our concern is not with the IAC and the TAA being given guidelines but with the particular form the Government may give those guidelines which could put in jeopardy the valuable independent role of the IAC. That concern is expressed in our amendment. I commend the amendment to the House. 
-I want it known and recorded that the Opposition decided not to divide on this Bill tonight in order to give more debating time to honourable members on both sides. Of course, I know that I am not allowed to refer to the second reading debate but, in view of remarks that have been made at some stage about the Opposition not having its heart in the amendment, I must say that I was sorely tempted to break an arrangement. I wish that the people who have the charge of the business of this House would acquaint Ministers with these sorts of arrangements so that honourable members are not tempted to break arrangements in that way. 
-Not only did the honourable member for Chifley specifically address himself to the amendment but I listened, either in the chamber or in my office, to every speech from the Opposition. Every one of our members was wholly in favour of the medium and long term planning strategy which is the heart of the amendment. The other matter raised at some stage- 1 am not allowed to say when- related to whether the Australian Labor Party has a policy of full employment. It was an incredible argument that was put up which referred to the 25 per cent tariff cut at a time when there was raging inflation in this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  I remind the honourable member for Adelaide that he may not revive the second reading debate. 
I will relate my remarks to the third reading because 1 know that, by doing so, I will be in order. I state again that, despite the fact that there have been 25 per cent tariff cuts in the past when Labor was in office, in no way does that suggest that the Labor Party does not have a policy of full employment. That is far from correct. That sort of cut was brought in at a time of raging inflation and over full employment. It was done on the recommendation of a committee of some of the most expert people in this country. With the benefit of hindsight we can all be clever about these things. Indeed it was a wrong measure and many of us have admitted subsequently, with the benefit of hindsight, that it was a wrong measure. 
It ill becomes the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  to introduce such irrevelant material into this debate and to make charges against the Labor Party which cannot be substantiated in any way. As I have stated at another stage of this debate, we have supported the Industries Assistance Commission and its independence with all the vehemence that we can muster. At the same time we believe that guidelines have to be given to the Commission. We have stated in our amendment and on many occasions that the sorts of guidelines that must be given to the Commission are related to medium and long term economic strategy. I am glad to have had the opportunity again at the third reading stage to reiterate those views. 
Until we have such a strategy we will go on bumping along on the bottom of the worst recessionary period that this country has experienced at least since the great depression. Until the Government introduces some medium and long term planning to this country we will go on having the IAC acting merely as a fireman seeking to put out every grass fire that is burning in every direction, as they burn on so many occasions in this country from one end of it to the other. I deplore the fact that the Minister introduced those sorts of remarks when he should have been replying to the debate and replying to specific points raised in the debate by the Opposition. He introduced new material. I am glad to have had the opportunity to say something about that at the third reading stage.- 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. It refers to the reopening of the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation embassy and the consulates at Los Angeles and Bombay to which the Prime Minister referred last Thursday in his statement on the resignation of  Sir John  Kerr. Will the Prime Minister give full details of the arguments used in favour of reopening these posts? Is he aware that the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure only last May, after a thorough examination of Australia 's overseas representation, received no submissions advocating any reopenings and, in fact, recommended additional closures? Has he noted the report to the effect that it will cost the Australian taxpayers an additional $440,000 for just the consulate reopenings, leaving aside other costs relating to UNESCO? Finally, will he not only table relevant documents which he has received to date but also arrange for a full statement of the costs of the closures and the reopenings to be presented to this House? 
-On behalf of the Opposition I welcome this motion and express support for it. At this stage, as the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  has said, the proposal for redeveloping the airways facilities at Adelaide Airport will be referred to the Public Works Committee. I hope that the Committee will facilitate the examination of this proposal. Some of us, like the Minister and me who come from Adelaide, know just how limited in many ways the facilities are at the airport. I have not had time to examine this proposition in detail in order to be able to express a view as to whether other improvements which are not included in this proposal ought to be made to the Adelaide Airport. 
Generally speaking, the attitude of the Labor Opposition is that now is the time, if ever there was a time, for many public works projects to be funded in order to reduce the number of unemployed and to reduce the under-employed services that are available to be used on this sort of work right now. So often it is only those proposals which go through this Parliament and which we oppose that get publicity. This is one of the many proposals that we support. In fact I would not be at all surprised, when we have a look in detail at the proposal, if we supported even more work being done. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-This is another occasion on which the Opposition is pleased to support a Government proposal. Once again, as I said in relation to the motion that was agreed to only a moment ago, we are not expecting a great deal of publicity in the country for this measure because there is no controversy about it. The Bounty (Polyester-Cotton Yarn) Bill 1978 grants short term assistance by means of a bounty to a particular producer of polyesterCotton yarn. I am informed that at the moment there is only one producer of this yarn, and that is Bradmill Industries Ltd, whose works are at Kotara near Newcastle in New South Wales. 
The first point to be made is that the assistance is for a short term only. The amounts available for the bounty are limited to $600,000 for each of the 12-month periods which commence on 1 October 1977 and 1 October 1978 and a further $550,000 for the final 1 1 months commencing on 1 October 1979. By August 1980 the provisions of this Bill will no longer apply. The reason for that is the further examination of long term assistance for the industry being made by the Industries Assistance Commission. Its report is expected to be received towards the end of 1978. We expect even this Government to have made up its mind on the report concerning long term assistance by the time the bounty terminates at the end of August 1980. Another point to be made about this bounty is to remind the House that it will be provided at the rate of $1.15 per kilogram of yarn. That is set out in the Bill and in the second reading speech of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs (  Mr Fife). 
I have said something about the main provisions of the Bill and mentioned, as background, that the assistance is relatively short term. I should say also that the bounty implements one of the recommendations of a report of the Industries Assistance Commission, namely, report No. 138 of 19 July 1977. I find that report quite complicated inasmuch as it covers a wide variety of products. It is headed, 'Certain Spun Yarns and Wool Textiles and other Goods'. However, honourable members will obtain a better idea of how diverse are the products about which the report is made when I read through the contents of the report. It relates to cotton, cotton blend and substitute yarns, hand-knitted yarns, carpet yarns, other woollen and worsted yarns and fabrics, rugs and blankets, sleeping bags, woven pile fabrics, and knitted net fabrics and curtains. In addition to all those goods, a chapter of the report also deals with other goods. 
The Minister will understand that I have taken over my duties in respect of this shadow portfolio fairly recently. I suppose that he still considers himself a new boy to a certain extent. I would be glad if, in his reply to this second reading debate, he would tell us something about the other recommendations contained in this very diverse IAC report and the intentions of the Government in relation to those other recommendations. Not only is the report very diverse, as is evident from that list of subjects which I have just read to the House, but also within the heading of cotton, cotton blend and substitute yarns, one must recognise that at least three sub-headings are included in the chapter. They relate to viscose cotton, including polynosic cotton threads, polyester cotton and PVA natural fibres. Indeed, it takes a fair amount of study of the chapter to ascertain what the IAC is saying that applies to polyester cotton itself. 
I have another question of the Minister which I would be glad if he would answer in his reply: What is the current rate of duty on polyester cotton yarn? The House must recognise that what is being proposed here by way of this bounty of $1.15 per kilogram is an addition to the present rate of duty. My problem arises in respect of what is stated on page 9 of the report. Paragraph 3.8 states: 
However there is some contention about one of the by-laws applying to cotton blend yarns- BL7753573 relating to multiple or cabled polyester/cotton yarn where each and every ply is finer than 1 7.4 tex. Bradmill originally requested that this by-law be amended to exclude natural yarns for knitting, but subsequently withdrew this request. It is not clear whether, and to what extent the demand by knitters for twofold polyester/cotton yarn of the type admitted duty free  under this by-law, has been encouraged by the duty free facility. In view of the uncertainty surrounding this issue, and since there is limited local capacity to supply doubled yarn, and since Bradmill revised its request, imports under by-law of polyester/cotton yarn have not been included with competitive imports. 
Perhaps there is a simple explanation but it seems that this bounty could apply to some imports which are already entering Australia duty free because of a particular by-law. I would like the Minister to devote attention to that in his reply. I mentioned that, on the face of it anyway without making an assumption about the answer that the Minister will give me shortly, there is an existing 15 per cent duty. I have said already that the beneficiary of that duty is Bradmill Industries Ltd of Kotara. But I should say also that with the introduction of this bounty and with the 15 per cent duty possibly another producer, Bond's Spinning Mills, may be able to put into production, with some alterations to its equipment, and supply this yarn. 
It is very awkward to extract only this part of the IAC report and devote attention to it when discussing a Bill like this one without recognising that, in this chapter of the report anyway, the other types of yarns are themselves a substitute for polyester cotton yarn to which we are devoting attention. That has to be realised to understand why the Industries Assistance Commission came to its decision, namely, that this yarn should be the subject of a bounty. There is no doubt that the producer- Bradmill- would have preferred the assistance to come in another form. Those honourable members who have read the chapter of the IAC report dealing with this matter will know that the first option Bradmill preferred was a tariff quota. Its second preference was an increase in the tariff itself. A third option was a market sharing arrangement. It is only the fourth option- the bounty- which is recommended by the IAC and which is the subject of this Bill. 
The Opposition welcomes the recommendation of the IAC and the decision of the Government. There are advantages in the application of bounties vis-a-vis alternative forms of assistance. Firstly, unlike tariffs and quotas, they do not raise the price of the protected product to consumers or consuming industries. In other words, they do not add to inflation. Secondly, when financed from general government revenue, they are less inequitable than tariffs or quotas in the sense that their costs are shared by all and not just by consumers of the product. Thirdly, since bounty payments are based on annual Budget appropriations, they are more open and subject to greater public scrutiny than tariffs or quotas in relation to which costs are largely hidden. So where possible we support the use of the bounty in order to protect jobs which, of course, is the purpose of this measure. I will not detain the House any longer on this subject, other than to repeat that the Opposition welcomes the Bill and hopes that it will have a speedy passage through this House. 
-I am pleased to lead for the Opposition in the debate on this Bounty (Drilling Machines) Bill and to inform the House that the Opposition supports the legislation. The Bill gives effect to the Government's decision to provide assistance for the manufacture in Australia of bench or pedestal drilling machines. This is not one of those Bills that are likely to rivet a lot of attention in the country, but nevertheless for the five manufacturers concerned and the 50 or so people whose jobs are affected it is a very important Bill. It is as well for us to recognise that the Government's decision is based on a recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission in its interim report, No. 146 dated 30 September 1977 and entitled 'Beach or Pedestal Drilling Machines Belt Driven Pulley Operated (NonPower Fed)'. I have read the report and am delighted not only that the Government has seen fit in cases such as this to support the decision of the Industries Assistance Commission but also that the Commission and the Government are using bounties. 
I had something to say about the advantages of bounties over quotas and tariffs a week ago when we were debating another bounty Bill in this Parliament, the Bounty (Polyester-Cotton Yarn) Bill 1978, and I listed the advantages of the application of bounties viz-a-viz alternative forms of assistance under three headings. Firstly, unlike tariffs and quotas, they do not raise the price of the protected product to consumers or consuming industries. In other words, they do not add to inflation. Secondly, when financed from general government revenue, they are less inequitable than tariffs or quotas in the sense that their costs are shared by all and not just by consumers of the product. The third point, which is as well to remember when we are supporting bounty Bills, is that since bounty payments are based on annual Budget appropriations, they are more open and subject to greater public scrutiny than tariffs or quotas in relation to which costs are largely hidden. So where possible we support the use of a bounty to protea jobs which, of course, is the purpose of this measure. 
If this debate had taken place just three years ago when the Government parties were on this side of the House and we were in government there would have been a certain lack of integrity in the debate. Political capital would have been made out of the fact that an industry like this was foundering. I want to take a more responsible line and recognise that this country's industries are in great difficulty at this time and, to the greatest extent possible, join with the Government in seeking ways and means of achieving a longer term scenario and strategy within which business can plan. I am bound to bring that little abrasiveness into this debate because it is as well to remember, and it is as well for those outside this Parliament to note, that the Labor Opposition does not oppose legislation for the sake of opposing it. Where we can support a measure we support it, and this is one of those occasions. 
The question of long term assistance for this small industry is currently under examination by the Industries Assistance Commission as part of its inquiry into metal working machine tools. A draft report was circulated to interested parties as long ago as October 1977, and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  if he replies to this debate, perhaps could tell us the present status of that report. Bench or pedestal drilling machines are currently produced by five local manufacturers. Total employment is only about 50 persons and total annual production in 1976-77 was 1,044 machines, with an average machine value, extimated by the Industries Assistance Commission, at $450. Of those manufacturers two are in Victoria, two are in New South Wales and one is in Western Australia. The manufacture of this product is directed to two markets. There is an industrial use and that is the market which is supplied mainly by local manufacturers. Then there is a second market for goods in these categories which are put under the heading of low priced drilling machines, and at the moment they are mostly imported from Taiwan. There is of course some overlap between the two and that is why it is important for the House and Industries Assistance Commission to consider these aspects of the industry under the one heading. 
The proportion of the market held by local producers has declined from about 40 per cent in 1972-73 to 15 per cent in the last two years. Drilling machines from Taiwan accounted for nearly all the growth in imports. The price disadvantage of comparable local machines against products from Taiwan was calculated by the Industries Assistance Commission to be about 90 per cent. So on 24 December 1976 with this problem in mind the Temporary Assistance Authority recommended that temporary assistance be accorded by a quota restriction limiting imports cleared for home consumption in the calendar year 1977 to 750 machines under the normal duty rate- that is, a 26 per cent general rate- with an additional duty of $200 per machine on imports in excess of this level. I note that the Temporary Assistance Authority recommended assistance by way of tariff quota because it was not empowered to recommend assistance other than by barriers to imports. I believe that it was because the TAA pointed out at that stage the disadvantage of using quotas instead of bounties that the Government decided to call for this interim report No. 146 which is the genesis of this recommendation and which has given birth to the Bill that we are debating tonight. 
On 25 February 1977 the Government announced the implementation of the tariff quota system. However, by 7 March 1977 the entire 1977 quota of 750 machines had been exhausted. Also on 25 February the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs referred to the Industries Assistance Commission the question of whether tariff quotas should continue after 3 1 December 1977. That was done because quite clearly quotas were not the answer to the problem in this industry. Whilst local producers have made some gains in the low price drilling machine market since quotas were introduced, they appear to have little prospect of achieving a large share of the potential demand for such machines unless their prices are significantly reduced. One of the five manufacturing companies, MacMillan and Co., estimated that 50 employment opportunities in sales and local distribution of drilling machines were being jeopardised by the quota restrictions. I was interested in that way of expressing it because I would have thought that if the total quota was exhausted so soon after the quota was introduced the jobs were more than in jeopardy; there were no machines to sell. So there we have a case of a tariff quota being responsible for a reduction in employment rather than, as is our main hope, an increase in employment. 
The Industries Assistance Commission concluded that the drilling machines segment of the industry should be maintained at least until the Government had made a decision on assistance to the whole metal working machine tools industry. The Commission concluded that such maintenance required continued temporary assistance, which was in accord with the rationale of the earlier decision of the Temporary Assistance Authority. However, the IAC believed that the continued use of quotas would frustrate many consumers as well as generate only limited assistance to local manufacturers. The Commission believed that the extension of the bounty currently available to most other standard metal working machine tools- via the Metal Working Machine Tools Bounty Act 1972-73-would fulfil the requirements identified by the Industries Assistance Commission. Of course, this was the action requested by most local producers. 
The scheme provides for a payment to Australian manufacturers of a bounty at the rate of one-third of the factory cost of the machine, as long as local content exceeds 85 per cent of such costs. The Bill contains provisions that if local content is less than 85 per cent, a pro rata rate of bounty will be payable- that seems to me to be a very worthwhile provision- and no bounty is payable if local content is less than 55 per cent. If only the same number of machines were to be manufactured in the next year as were manufactured in the last financial year the cost would be $125,000, but I think that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs would be very pessimistic and perhaps a little unwise if he included only $ 125,000 in his next appropriation because it seems to me- I hope that this will be so- that a bounty such as this would lead to increased manufacturing, and that means an increased bounty. The annual cost of this scheme to 30 June 1979 should be greater than $125,000 if that occurs. The Industries Assistance Commission emphasised that these recommendations were only for temporary assistance and that the assumption should not be made that the assistance recommended would continue in the long term. 
I have looked at the draft report relating to the longer term. I do not know whether the commissioners were the same, but in that draft report the Industries  Assistance  Commission has concluded that there should be assistance to this industry, firstly, by extending the present bounty to all locally produced metal working machine tools; secondly, by implementing an additional bounty at the rate of 25 per cent on the design cost included in the total factory cost; and, thirdly, by allowing duty free entry for one particular category of machine tools. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The level of conversation in the House is too high. If honourable members are compelled to speak I request them to converse in subdued tones. 
It is very kind of you to protect me m that way,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I realise that for those intelligent people in this House who are taking an interest in a complex measure such as this- of course that includes everyone on my side of the House- my speech is of a riveting nature, and they are enjoying learning about this complicated measure. There is only one other point I wish to make. The Industries Assistance Commission has pointed out that there is a defence reason for wanting such an industry to continue. It emphasised that the levels of assistance implied by the recommendations imposed a high cost on the community. Yet such assistance is warranted only because of the special defence characteristics of the industry. The Department of Defence is asked by the Commission to keep its requirements in regard to this industry under review. I believe that there is probably a case to be made out for this bounty not to come out of any appropriation for the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs- I make this recommendation to the Minister- but out of the appropriations for the Department of Defence. When the Minister is conducting his wars with the Department of Finance over the next few months about the appropriations for his Department for the next financial year he could at least suggest that appropriations such as this one might come out to the Defence vote. I repeat that the Opposition supports this bounty. It hopes that some security will be given to this industry which is important to defence, and it trusts that the Bill will have a speedy passage. 
-My question was to have been directed to the Prime Minister but, in his absence, perhaps the Acting Minister for Trade and Resources can answer it. Did he hear the following report on this morning's radio news: 

 Mr Anthony warned a meeting of Japanese industrialists of the dangers of protectionism in the present economic climate. He told the Federation of Economic Organisations that protectionism was a greater threat to world trade now than at any time in the last 30 years. 
Does this represent a change, indeed one might even say a somersault, in Government policy? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1 978: 
1 ) With reference to his answer of 19 April 1977  (Hansard,  page 988) to question No. 389 which I placed on notice on 16 March 1977, when was the Australian Embassy in Pretoria instructed to take an appropriate opportunity to inform the South African authorities of the concern being expressed in Australia about the action taken against the offices and members of the South African Council of Churches and Christian Institute. 
Were there any appropriate opportunities to carry out this instruction before the Ambassador wrote to the South African authorities on 26 July 1977  (Hansard,  8 November 1977, page 3 133). 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1 978: 
1 ) Has a new principle in Austraiian development assistance been introduced with the tying of grants in the disbursement of Australia's special action pledge made at the Conference on International Economic Co-operation. 
If not, what proportion of Australia's development assistance was in the form of tied grants during 1975-76 and 1976-77. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Yes, I do. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  used my name in vain in his statement about this airline service in the 
Northern Territory affair. He talked about 'devious duplicity' in a sentence immediately prior to pointing out that  Mr Cavill  had approached me to help him with his case. I point out to the House that  Mr Cavill  is a constituent of mine. As far as I know he has only one fault, that is, that he votes for the Liberal Party. So in no way is there an association between him or me, other than the relationship between a constituent and his member. He and I and the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  have one interest in common in this affair, that is, ending the scandal whereby taxpayers' funds have been wasted. That is what this statement is about and that is the point I have been pursuing since 1972. I am disappointed that I have not had a chance to speak in this debate but I understand that there was some arrangement which has prevented me from doing so. I make it quite clear that there is nothing devious about my relationship with  Mr Cavill.  I have been pursuing his cause, which I believe to be a just one, in relation to the scandalous wastage of public funds in air services in the Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 23 February, 1978: 
Have any decisions been taken on the recommendations made in the report by  Dr Helen  Hughes on 'Development Research in Australia ' since his reply to question No. 87 1 on 7 September 1976  (Hansard,  page 778). 
Does the Government intend to establish an institute of development studies. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware of the extreme confusion generated in the community generally as to where he stands in relation to the expansion of the world economy and the growth of world trade? Is he still constrained by his attack-inflation-only attitude, or has he noted the International Monetary Fund's warning of the vicious circle of deflation threat faced by the world if the present contractionary policies continue? At the same time could he tell us what was the purpose of his most recent overseas trip, on this occasion to Japan? 
-The purpose of the Commonwealth Banks Amendment Bill 1978 is to enable the Commonwealth Development Bank to lend to a wider range of businesses than it can at present. Once again, as will happen always, when the Government has a reasonable idea to put to the nation and brings it into this Parliament in the form of legislation, the Opposition will not be opposing it; in fact we will be supporting it. I suppose the consequence of that, as all of us must realise, is that this legislation now will not get much publicity in the community. I wish to say how sorry I am that that is so because I would like many more small businesses to know about it and to be able to take advantage of it. The fact is that the fourth estate, which is very important to us and which disseminates information from this Parliament to the people, likes to report only those areas in which there is violent disagreement. There is no such disagreement on this legislation, I am happy to say. We are, however, moving an amendment at the second reading stage, but it is one of those amendments which put a point of view about the legislation without opposing it, and we certainly will not be voting against the legislation at the third reading stage. 
I shall now mention a little more about the legislation. The functions of the Commonwealth Development Bank are set out in section 72 of the Commonwealth Bank Act. This section enables the Bank to provide finance to persons for two purposes. The first purpose is that of primary production. As a practitioner many years ago, before I became a member of this Parliament, I know just how valuable the legislation is to those primary producers who are lucky enough to be able to qualify for a loan. The second purpose of a Commonwealth Development Bank loan is for the establishment or development of industrial and tourist undertakings. The amendment which the Bill seeks to make to section 72 will enable the Bank to provide finance for the establishment or development of all business undertakings by removing the restrictions which confine the Bank to financing only industrial and tourist undertakings. As at present, the Development Bank will continue to be required to give emphasis to the provision of finance for small businesses as opposed to larger businesses. As is currently the case, prospective borrowers will need to establish that the finance sought is not otherwise available. I believe that they will be able to establish that easily in many cases because indeed the traditional trading bank sources are not available to small businesses in the way that we would like, particularly because of the relevant monetary squeeze that is applying in the nation at present in the wake of the Government's present contractionary monetary and fiscal policies. I want to say more about that later. 
In determining whether finance should be provided, the Development Bank will not necessarily have regard to the value of the relevant security but will have regard primarily to the prospects of the operation being successful. It is pleasing for those of us who believe that the traditional sources in the banking system in this country are too conservative and look too much to security rather than competence and administrative ability that perhaps an additional source of finance will be available not only to the innovators in the community who come to such an enormous extent from small businesses but also to the battlers who can no doubt prove that they are viable and competent and who provide such a splendid service to the Australian community in their particular forms of endeavour. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  in his second reading speech, stated: 
To what extent additional funds may be required for the Development Bank's entry into this wider field of operations cannot be determined at this stage, but the position will be closely watched. 
It is claimed by the Minister that this widening of the charter of the Development Bank represents a further step in a series of initiatives' which are in response to the Government's awareness of increasing concern in the business community about the adequacy of funds for small business growth and development. Specifically, the move is said to have been made following consideration of the report of the task force set up to investigate the question of finance for small business. 
I shall make some comments on that part of the Minister's speech to this House in which he talked about not knowing what additional funds would be required and in which he claimed that the widening of the charter would represent a significant step forward. He cannot have it both ways. If it is to be a significant step forward, a lot more funds are required. This gets to the heart of the Opposition's amendment which I will move at the end of my speech. We must recognise that the Commonwealth Development Bank is already using in a very worthwhile way all the resources that are available to it. If we are to widen the charter, if we are to make more people eligible to borrow from the Bank and if this is to be a significant move, quite clearly the extent to which this move is successful will be determined by the amount of funds available to the Commonwealth Development Bank. We in the Labor Opposition are extremely worried about that aspect of this measure because of the blinkered economic policies of the Government with an attack-inflation-only mentality which we believe is not sufficient to get this economy moving. Indeed the International Monetary Fund in its latest report and at meetings which have just concluded in Washington is recognising that we need more of a venturesome, expansionary attitude and we need this Government to encourage the Commonwealth Development Bank by making more funds available to it. If it does that, we can welcome this legislation far more wholeheartedly than we can at present. Once again I will return to this matter later. 
Why was the report of the task force on small business finance to which I referred earlier not tabled? What did the task force recommend? Did it propose policies which the Government did not want to adopt? I think that for the sake of good government, more open government and better government for small businesses of this nation, the Liberal-National Country Party Government would have done us all a service if it had tabled the report of the task force upon which it has based this legislation. I believe that probably that task force recommended many other ways for small business- that vital and important sector in this community- to be assisted than the method we have before us. In the interests of good government, in the interests of an easier life for that important sector, I appeal to the Government to make that task force report available. The move that we are debating will not help the vast majority of small businesses since it extends only to the activities of the Development Bank and small businesses in areas other than rural, tourist and industrial activities. Therefore it is likely to give little relief to the problems to which the Government has admitted, namely, the inadequacy of funds flowing from finance organisations for growth and development of small businesses. 
I believe that the report of the task force, the tabling of which I am calling for in the Parliament, would have included other recommendations. They would have helped enormously beyond the extent we are able to help the small business community under the legislation which we are debating tonight and which is related to the Commonwealth Development Bank. As I have said already, the Government gives no undertaking to increase the funds available to the Development Bank so that it can fulfil its wider functions. The only comment is- I repeat what is stated in the Minister's second reading speech- that 'the position will be closely watched'. This is a meaningless comment in a situation in which the Reserve Bank of Australia is required to watch closely all bank operations. The position is being watched already. What we want to hear from the Minister is that, in order to be able to cater for that wider group which now, under this legislation, is able to appeal to the Commonwealth Development Bank for funds, more funds will be available from the Bank and that no more rationing than is taking place now will take place in the future. Without additional funds, it will clearly be impossible for the Development Bank to expand its activities without contracting its lending to the rural, tourist and industrial areas. 
Funds for the Development Bank come mainly from capital subscribed by the Commonwealth Government and also from lending by the Commonwealth Trading Bank and the Commonwealth Savings Bank. In a situation of tight monetary policy, it seems unlikely that the Commonwealth Trading or Savings Banks will be allowed to expand substantially their lending to the Development Bank. In the tight budgetary policy which we are hearing about each day and with the deficit soaring to about $6 billion before cuts take place, I am wondering how much will be appropriated from Commonwealth funds in order to assist the Commonwealth Development Bank to meet its wider charter. There are many other methods of bolstering small business finance, some of which have been foreshadowed by the Government. For example, the Government should enable the Development Bank to provide equity finance for small business and it should extend the activities of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. However, having said that I cite the rumours which have been circulated in the Press and to which credence has been given by word of mouth that the AIDC aspect of helping small business is now being scrapped. Perhaps an honourable member on the Government side who is more privy to the information available in this area will be able either to confirm or deny that the AIDC is not involving itself in this area. 
I am grateful to the honourable member for Cook for his interjection. He also belongs to the Mushroom Club. 
-For the sake of  Hansard,  I repeat that the honourable member said he walks in the dark but has no hunger. I think that, from the look of the honourable member, it can be said that although he is walking in the dark his hunger is being satisfied. 
Yes, he is a bachelor. I was explaining other ways in which small business with its great need for investment funds might be helped. In addition to the possibility of the AIDC providing help- that possibility now seems to be close- there is the other likelihood of forming joint ventures between State and private sector institutions for the provision of small business finance. I commend that course of action to the Commonwealth Government and the various State governments. Of course, they should make available further funds to bolster the small business sector. I am very glad to be able to say that in my Labor State of South Australia, the Department of Economic Development has a section which is devoted to making funds available to small businesses which need bolstering in this way. I know that in other States there are small business departments or sections of departments which are also devoted to the same purpose. However, the Government has proved to be tardy in introducing further measures along these lines. We live in hope. I am fortunate enough now along with the honourable member for Henty,  (Mr Aldred),  to be a member of the Small Business Advisory Council. We are tackling these problems of small business in an apolitical, non-partisan way. I hope that the honourable member will agree with me. It will be for the benefit of our nation if it can be shown that this is so. But on every possible occasion I reserve for myself the right to needle the Government into making more efforts for this important sector, that is the small business sector of our community. 
The Government seems to have conveniently ignored the fact that the principal cause of 'the inadequacy of funds flowing to small business'- I quote again from the Minister's second reading speech- is the Government's tight monetary policies. In general small companies tend to be the first hit during periods of monetary restraint. They are denied full access to the range of financial institutions available to larger companies. In addition to that, they are required to pay higher interest rates than are larger companies which have greater security. I must emphasise that point. Multinational companies have their use in our community with the technology that they bring to us. We in the Australian Labor Party believe that it will be in their interests, as well as in the interests of the Australian community generally, if we lay down codes of conduct and limitations within which multinational companies can work. But I raise the subject of multinational companies in the context of their being able to borrow virtually all the money they want, if needs be by a transfer of funds from overseas. They are not constrained in the same way so many smaller companies are constrained. Nor are the larger Australian companies constrained. They do not have the ready sources of finance from overseas- the transfers- that make them less worried by monetary constraints. Multinational companies must go to banking sources for their funds but their bigness means that they have a large clout when it comes to borrowing money  from their  bankers. 
But all of this does not apply to small business. Small business is really worried and really troubled when it comes to the sorts of monetary squeezes that we have had applied to this nation over the last two years of mismanagement. I will sum up the position in this way: In those two years of mismanagement- the period when there should have been economic revival due to our policies- revival has been postponed by Government policy. Lack of working capital and credit restrictions contributed to nearly half the business bankruptcies in 1975-76 according to Professor Meredith in an article in the  Current Affairs Bulletin  of April 1977. 1 believe that we have not received the more recent figures in respect of bankruptcies for 1976-77, so we must rely on statistics from that earlier year. 
In summary, while the Opposition is not opposing this Bill, it will move an amendment at the second reading stage, as I have already indicated. We are firmly of the opinion that this proposal, as with many others in the small business area, is largely an exercise in deceptive windowdressing. Although we have witnessed a series of announcements, in contrast to the virtual silence of governments before December 1972, we all have a justification for being critical and cynical about these latest moves. I will repeat that statement using other words: Prior to 1972, Liberal and National Country Party governments did nothing for the small business sector. At least we must be thankful for small mercies. We should build on the efforts made by the Whitlam Government which set up the Small Business Bureau. We acted in this area to assist small business. But at least we have some windowdressing noises these days. This could develop into something worth while. But it has not yet. For the reason set out in the amendment and for the reasons that I have indicated already, we do not know yet what funds will be available. The change indicated in this legislation, with announcements regarding further extensions to the Development Bank- I have mentioned the AIDC but that is now much in doubt- and with the instruction to the Reserve Bank that it is the Government's policy that adequate finance should be made available to small business all means that there is a little hope of affecting something for other than an inconsequential minority of small businesses. 
I must say that many of the Government's actions have had the effect, if not always the intention, of tipping the scales even further against small business. That is why we in the Opposition are particularly pleased with any legislation that helps to redress the imbalance. I want to list the sorts of things that have caused small businesses to be worse off than their big business brothers. I refer to such actions as the downgrading of the Small Business Bureau, which was set up by the Whitlam Government and operated in an area that is perhaps one of the most vital for small business- helping small businessmen with their management problems. We must recognise that a lot of these innovative, small entrepreneurial characters who come off the shop floor have not had any experience of administration or of management. They have the ideas and the drive, but they need the training and the education to help them in what is for the most part a strange field, this field of management, of accounting, and the like. They have their own skills in the area in which they have chosen to pursue their small business interests but they do not have other management skills that are necessary. The assistance that the Small Business Bureau can give them in meeting their management needs is most important. That is why I am terribly disappointed at the downgrading of the Bureau as part of the credit squeeze during the time of the Fraser Government. That is only one of the matters that has resulted in an imbalance, and has meant that the Government has hit the small businessman to leg compared with his big brother in the larger business community. 
I refer also to the Trade Practices Act allowing a greater range of anti-competitive practices to go unhindered, to discriminating aspects of the investment allowance, and to the recently announced extensions of export incentives. I believe these have not helped the small businessman to the same extent as his bigger brother. When it comes to export incentives let me put my personal view before the House. I am not suggesting in any way that bigger businesses should be excluded: They are the motor of our economy and certainly they must be helped, but we must give even more help to smaller businesses. What small business needs more than anything else is an expanding economy. What it is getting is a stagnating economy- the result of the false analysis and the false philosophies of the present Government. It is only when we get expansions in the economies of the world- particularly in our own economy, over which we have a control, as has been suggested by  Dr Witteveen,  the Director-General of the International Monetary Fund, and by other leaders of the world apart from our own Prime Minister- when we get an extension of government spending, particularly in public works and in training and retraining in order to meet the great need that we have for more skilled people, and when we get local employment programs to do something for the half million Australians who are now unemployed that small businesses will really be helped. 
I draw attention to a letter dated 14 March 1978 that was sent to the Prime Minister by somebody from your own State,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I am not sure whether he is from your own electorate. He is  Mr F.  W. Pilgrim of 38 Dolphin Street, Scarborough, Queensland. A copy of his letter has just been sent to me. As he is a small businessman I quote some of it, because the letter has gone to the Prime Minister and I think it ought to be brought to the attention of the House.  Mr Pilgrim  admits that he is a Liberal. He says: 
You promised when I elected you to power that you would turn the lights on . . . Now you are in your second term and for us things are getting very bleak. The lights of my Business, if I cannot get help soon, will be turned off for ever. Up until recently I employed twenty-two people - 
He is a really small businessman: 
. over the last two weeks I have had to retrench seven because I cannot keep going. 

 Mr Pilgrim goes on: 
The reasons for my Business failing are as follows: 
Lack of contracts. 
Contracts that are so poor with their profit margins because of lack of contracts, that other contractors are price cutting so much that everyone is being forced out of business. The big contractors cut prices and 1 believe they can stand it. 
He is just expressing what I have just expressed: The stagnation in our economy is hitting him and all small businessmen in the same way. He goes on: 
My bank will not help me with my plight, they are not interested if I fail, my house secures my overdraft so if I fail I am out in the street. 
We hope that with this legislation at least the Commonwealth Development Bank will be helping some small businessmen of his type. Another point he makes is: 
My bank could not care less that I retrenched seven men, all they want is my overdraft down or fold up. 
Why do they want the overdraft down? Because that is what they are being instructed by the Reserve Bank as part of the monetary measures of the Fraser Government. Another point  Mr Pilgrim  makes is: 
All that I am asking is which way 1 can turn next. Help from your Government with work, or some form of financing to see us through until you turn the lights on. 
There are many  Mr Pilgrims  of this nation. All I can say is that at least we hope the amendment I am about to move will draw to the attention of the Government the weakness of this legislation, even though basically we support it. We want the Commonwealth Development Bank to help more people in the community, more small businesses, with development funds. Small businessmen will not get those funds unless there is a change in the economic outlook of the Fraser Government and more funds are made available to the Commonwealth Development Bank to enable it to discharge these extra responsibilities. Therefore, on behalf of the Opposition I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the second reading of this Bill the House is of the opinion that the removal of the existing restrictions on lending by the Commonwealth Development Bank will prove of limited benefit to those entitled to borrow unless additional funds are made available to the Bank'. 
-Has the Prime Minister noted a report that a submission which has been before Cabinet seeks an alteration to the motor vehicle local content plan to assist Chrysler Australia Ltd and possibly other motor manufacturing companies? Is there any truth in this report? In view of the present calamitous situation at Chrysler, with 1,100 South Australians being thrown out of work, will the Prime Minister inform us about this submission? If the Labor Government's four-cylinder engine rationalisation plan had not been scrapped by the Prime Minister's Government, is it a fact that the present disaster would not have happened? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-The Opposition supports this reference to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. I think it needs to be said time and time again that the Committee works in a splendid bipartisan way and goes in great detail into the propositions put before it. We are, of course, very pleased that such a project is now in the offing because such public works are essential at the present time in order to maintain employment. In fact, we would like to see more of these projects undertaken. We look forward to the Public Works Committee playing its usual role in regard to detail. At the same time we look forward to this piece of public enterprise being effected in the long run. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 -Mr Speaker, the time for ending the treatment of Australian workers as chattels rather than as people, with hundreds being thrown on the unemployment heap overnight, is long overdue. After their false promises to the nation in national elections in 1975 and 1977, the Liberal and National Country Parties are guilty of negligence. Over the past two years of the Fraser Government the situation has gone from bad to worse, with thousands more unemployed now than there were two years ago. Adding in the hidden unemployment figure, as we have calculated it on a number of occasions in this House, it needs to be said again that the unemployment figure at the moment is somewhere near half a million Australians out of work. 
The Chrysler announcement last week, of 300 employees losing their jobs this coming Friday, and there being 1 100 fewer jobs in that one company by the end of next year, is but the latest result of the Government's benign neglect, not only of the motor manufacturing industry, but also of industry generally. 
Let me state some basic truths as perceived by the Australian Labor Party. We believe that a manufacturing industry is essential for our country. There is no other way to provide sufficient rewarding jobs for our people. We believe that a motor vehicle manufacturing industry is a vital base for that manufacturing industry. It is the engine of a manufacturing industry. It not only provides jobs for those making vehicles but also creates work in the steel and chemical industries to mention just two- for the panellings and paint which are basic ingredients of vehicles. It gives life to thousands of small firms. Six thousand small businesses are suppliers to the motor vehicle manufacturing industry. 
We of the Australian Labor Party believe also that people deserve security. We know and workers know that in a changing world no one can expect to stay in the same job necessarily forever. Politicians, of course, know this only too well. But people have a right to a job- a right to expect that their government is actively planning for the creation of a job for them; a right to demand that their government has manpower programs and job training, retraining, relocation and income maintenance schemes to allow them and their families to cast aside the fear of being thrown on the dole overnight. People are not getting this security and freedom from this fear under this present Liberal-National Country Party Government. Members of the Opposition want to force a change of heart. We want to see that policies are arrived at to overcome this shame. 
The Whitlam Labor Government commenced the long and difficult task of providing Australians with manpower programs, with job training, retraining, relocation and income maintenance schemes. For all intents and purposes these progressive measures have been dismantled by a Fraser Government worshipping at the shrine of smaller government, at the shrine of 'let the strong get stronger and the weak get weaker', at the shrine of cutting government spending and the deficit at any price even though that price is bringing about unemployment and lesser employment security generally. 
The Chrysler episode is just the latest result of this human tragedy caused by this callous conservative attitude of smaller government, of cutting the schemes and the programs to which I have already drawn attention. In 1 975 the motor manufacturing industry was on the first rung of the ladder of planned stability. Industry generally, thanks to the Labor Government, was on the way to offering satisfactory income security schemes where restructuring and rationalisation was necessary. The first rung of the planned stability ladder was the four-cylinder engine plan for the Lonsdale plant of Chrysler Australia Ltd. What happened to that employment producing plan? It was scrapped by the Liberals. Instead, we are to have more fragmentation. Instead of the economies of scale of one four-cylinder plant we are to have three and possibly four or more four-cylinder engine plants. This is the Liberal 's idea of planned stability. It is no wonder that the motor manufacturing industry today is in chaos. There are also other illustrations of the chaos I have described. Because of the evasive answer which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  gave last week to a question I asked about changes to the local content plan there is complete confusion as well as chaos. Is Chrysler to be allowed to join Nissan and Toyota on a 60 per cent plan reverting from the present 85 per cent to 60 per cent and then working back up to 85 per cent over the next five years? Is Nissan seeking a deferment of its local content deadline plus a further quota allocation for built up cars to facilitate, as Nissan has apparently said, 'the survival of this company'? We note in Nissan's submission to the latest Industries Assistance Commission inquiry on commercial motor vehicles, that that company said if it cannot bring in fully built up vehicles or CBUs it cannot go ahead with the local content plan. Is it not true that 1 8 attempts to manufacture or assemble vehicles in Australia have failed? Is it not true that the combined losses suffered by such firms as Chrysler, Hartnett, Leyland, Lightburn and Volkswagen exceeds 100m? 
Let us look at some more basic facts which signify the chaos and turmoil that I have alluded to. Let us look directly at the employment situation in the industry. In December 1976 there were 87,800 people employed in the industry and in December 1977 there were 80,300 people employed in it- a reduction of 7,500 people in just one calendar year. The number of dealers and petrol and tyre retailers fell from 172,000 at the end of 1976 to 167,500 at the end of 1977-a reduction of 4,500 in that period. Those figures do not tell the whole story. There have been ups as well as downs in the employment situation. But these figures add up to social irresponsibility. No one should be allowed to take on labour in this way only to discard it shortly afterwards. This is not the planned stability that we in the Labor Party seek. There has been no income security for those people who have been discarded. 
Let us look at the registration figures. The number of passenger motor vehicles registrations fell from 58,000 in December 1976 to 46,710 in December 1977- a reduction of 11,290 registrations. There was a reduction of almost 1,000 registrations in January 1977 compared with January 1976. Registrations were down by almost 45,000 in the 1977 calendar year. We are hoping this year for 570,000 to 580,000 registrations, but on present indications there will be 100,000 fewer registrations than that. There is chaos in the industry and even chaos in the allocation of quotas for the industry because no one has any idea what will be the total registration figure for 1978. Above all else in this chaos and turmoil we have to give attention to the very difficult task we as a nation are trying to undertake in regard to this vital industry. We are trying to sustain in a healthy and viable form a vital motor manufacturing industry comprising five manufacturers for half a million new registrations and 14 million people, whereas, for instance, in the United States- I could have used Japan as an illustration- there are only three thriving manufacturers for 200 million people. It just cannot be done; we just cannot achieve the necessary economies of scale and productivity that are necessary in these circumstances. 
The sooner we grasp the nettle and plan for something which can be done the better it will be for everybody, particularly those working in the motor manufacturing industry. It will require enormous co-operation between the public and private sectors and between the workers and management, but until it is done we shall continue to suffer turmoil such as that created by Chrysler's announcement last week. We shall continue to suffer from the lack of economies of scale, the ever increasing cost of cars, a consequent declining market and the scourge of quotas. 
In other words, the consumer will continue to be taken for a ride and standards of living will continue to fall. Let me illustrate the chaotic fragmentation a little more vividly. By 1968 we had 190 different passenger models and 734 different light commercial vehicles and truck models in this country. Believe it or not, 800 of them were locally manufactured or assembled. Just contemplate the breathtaking and wasteful scale on which the industry is obliged to keep its spare parts inventories alone. The proliferation of makes is bad enough, but what makes the situation worse is the manner in which the market is fragmented by the availability of countless models. By 1970, 56 different local and overseas car makers were fighting for a share of the market in this country and there were even more models than there were two years earlier. That was a far cry from the Chifley plan, which visualised specific makes and models for the three major price categories, with Holdens catering for the low income bracket. That is a far cry from the ideal which should apply to all mass produced goods, namely, that as far as possible they should be made with identical specifications in as few manufacturing plants as possible and with a minimum number of options. With our proliferation of makes and models and with our 6,000 major suppliers to the industry it is little wonder that our unit production costs are higher than those almost anywhere in the world and that our productivity record is abysmal. 
There is only one way of approaching this turmoil. We cannot leave the situation to the sort of plans we have had for the last 25 years and allow to continue the present Government's attitude of 'let the market take care of the rest'. In other words we cannot stand back and watch the blood flow, which is what we are doing now. We need a greater leadership role from governments. Local producers must be forced into greater standardisation. If possible local manufacturers must be persuaded to merge, ideally arriving as soon as possible at fewer, perhaps even two manufacturers and far fewer models. We should remember all the time that there is no reason why all the existing facilities wherever they are- in Victoria, South Australia or New South Wales- should not be used to the full, and they can be, by either purchasing them or by using them under contract. We must be wary of allowing new facilities to be created before the existing facilities are being used to the full, with consequent security of employment for those who already have devoted their lives to the great motor manufacturing industry. 
Surely it is not too late to start this process by reviving the Labor Party's four-cylinder engine rationalisation plan. For the sake of people's employment, let the Liberals admit that they have made a mistake. Let us not in any way water down the 85 per cent content plan as it is. It is an essential feature of the industry. We need a motor vehicle manufacturing industry in Australia. It is essential that we assert that again and again. What we need with it are the economies of scale which would result from there being fewer makes and fewer models. Surely it is not beyond the wit of Government leadership to achieve a marrying of one of the American sixcylinder makers or both the major American sixcylinder car makers with one or even two of the Japanese four-cylinder car makers so that we can have more rationalisation and economies of scale. Until we do this Australian consumers will be hit to leg, as they have been for too long, paying so much for their motor cars. 
Government leadership must not confine itself only to achieving these economies of scale under the local content plan, as I have outlined. There are many other things it has to do. For all intents and purposes we do not have Australian cars and have not had them since 1949. We should have them. We have not had proper participation of the dealers, workers and consumers in the decision-making of manufacturers. Manufacturers have made their decisions quite independently. We should recognise that we need this participation. We also need rationalisation of motor marketing and the dealership situation in this country. We can look to California, the home of free enterprise, for the sort of thing that is required. 
All this has to be done in the context of two factors. Firstly, we must have a growing consumer demand for these cars. The only way of getting that growing demand is by the national government improving consumer demand immediately by reducing sales tax. A reduction to 15 per cent would mean about $600 less being spent on the purchase of a family car. It is urgent that this be done. The sale of motor cars is very much influenced by the rate of sales tax. When the Menzies Government raised the sales tax on motor cars to 40 per cent in November 1 960 new vehicle sales dropped by 43 per cent. Secondly, we must have more dialogue and communication with the work force. The work force will respond if workers are given the dignity and security about which I have spoken. At present they are involuntary members of the mushroom club- they are kept in the dark and fed on bulldust. This has been the story of the Chrysler dispute and it has been the history of the motor manufacturing industry for too long. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-(4.30)-It is rather distressing, I am sure, for the Committee to learn of the number of people who will be reducing their tax over the last couple of financial years through the use of the Curran scheme as a result of the Government's failure over the last two years- and, indeed, we may even say of the Whitlam Government in 1975- to close that loophole. I make no bones about it: I hoped for a long time that we might back date the provisions embodied in this clause, but that issue may be a better subject for debate when we come to clause 2 of the Bill. I had hoped that we might be able to back date the provisions to 1 December 1 974. However, that is not to be. I have risen to my feet on this occasion to talk to the first amendment moved by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  and to make it clear that concern about the discretionary powers of the Commissioner for Taxation is not the sole prerogative of members on the government side. I have spent a number of years as a tax practitioner and I can assure the Committee and the nation that we on this side of the chamber will use the Commissioner's discretion as little as possible because people are entitled to know what is the law. 
As has already been said by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  who led for the Opposition, there is need for flexibility in this more complicated world. There is no doubt that these days the schemes are ever more ingenious. Therefore, they are requiring some discretion. However, I would like to draw to the attention of the Committee some debate that is going on outside this Parliament relating to the subject of who should be given the discretion. The claim is made- I must say that I have not seen a lot of evidence of the claim- that perhaps the discretion is being applied in a different manner from State to State where the Commissioner for Taxation has delegated his discretion to  deputy  Commissioners. I raise this question in the hope that anybody who is following this debate outside the Parliament may get in touch with me or with other members of this Parliament and provide more specific examples of where discretions are being applied in a different way from State to State. This raises the whole subject to which I have alluded already, namely, should we think again as to who should be given the discretion? Is it correct that the Commissioner alone eventually should have that responsibility? Or would we not achieve more uniformity perhaps if the discretion were put in the hands of a committee of three or four, or perhaps a committee of  deputy  commissioners along with the Commissioner? Maybe we will learn from the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on this occasion or on another occasion of the sort of methods the Commissioner uses in order to seek to achieve greater uniformity. 
In summary, this discretion is necessary in the more complicated world. However, we should put it into the law as seldom as possible because people have a right to certainty. But then we raise the other question: Is it correct that the Commissioner alone should have the discretion, because I believe that, in the way it is being applied now, he has of necessity in so many cases to delegate that discretion. It goes to deputy commissioners and it is being applied in a different way. 
But this brings me to the right honourable member's amendment. I believe that if it were successful there would be even less certainty than would result from the way in which the Government has worded the provision. A discretion would then lie with every assessor who applied himself to the particular problem and, because of the subjective nature of deciding what is appropriate, there would then be no certainty present at all. I believe that perhaps the Treasurer himself made that point during his remarks. So I trust that the amendment will not be successful, rather that, as a Committee, we will on all occasions seek to minimise the use of discretion and, where it is used, to ensure that there is uniformity of application and also that we will consider in more detail to whom the discretion should be given. 

 Sir WILLIAM McMAHON (Lowe)-I ask the indulgence of the Committee to get clarity on one point that I believe is supremely important. 
I rise to remind the Committee of the Opposition's arguments in supporting the Government on this occasion and opposing the amendment moved by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon).  After a spirited, informed and quite long debate on the subject, we have come to a party view on it. We believe that the time is long overdue for a stand to be taken against the tax bludgers in this community. We believe that our amendment should create in people's minds a precedent and a knowledge of where we stand when it comes to tax bludgingtax schemes which are clearly immoral and against the nation's interests. 
The decision we took was that as soon as those schemes come to the knowledge of the Labor Party in government the appropriate Minister will stand up in this Parliament if it is then meeting- if not, by other means such as a Press release- and make it quite clear that that particular scheme is against the nation's interest and that at the first possible opportunity we will legislate against it, with application from the beginning of the financial year in which the statement is made. That ought to be a lesson to all who spend so much time in the tax avoidance industry developing immoral schemes and persuade them that they might as well turn their activities to positive measures which would improve the production of the country, rather than be parasites, which indeed most of them are. 
We are talking here about an immoral scheme, the Curran scheme. Anybody who entered that scheme from 1 December 1974 should have known that his actions were at risk. The statement of the then Labor Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  the day after the High Court decision was issued made clear what was his attitude and what he expected to happen as a result of that decision. To see so many honourable members get up here and weep crocodile tears and pretend there is some measure of support for the immoral things that are done leaves me cold. I do not mind admitting that my attitude in the party Caucus was that the legislation should be backdated to 1 December 1974, that we should say so, and that we should have, in fact, done so. I also do not mind admitting that I believe in Caucus decisions and that I stick to them. I know there were difficulties in dating it back in spite of the fact that most of the immoral schemes that have been entered into by the people of this country have not yet been sanctioned in every possible way. I believe that many of them are still open and have gone against the taxpayer because they are not genuine schemes. But I believe it would have been far better for this House and for the vast majority of the people of this country if we had been able to strike a blow against the immoral entering into these schemes altogether rather than dating this legislation back to what were fairly wishy washy words in the last Budget Speech. 
The Opposition is creating this precedent. It is saying that as soon as the schemes are declared wrong we can date back to 1 July of that particular financial year. We are being consistent with the Curran scheme and what we want to move and what was indicated in our amendment at the second reading stage of the Bill is that we would like 1 July 1977- the beginning of this financial year- to be the date from which all of the outlawed tax avoidance schemes should date. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir 
William McMahon) suggested in his earlier remarks that there was some open ended commitment or lack of commitment on the part of the Opposition in what it was putting forward. I want to point out to him and to the House that that is not so. I want to repeat that we agree that the outlawing legislation should be back dated from the beginning of the financial year in question. There is no question of going back to the earlier financial year. Indeed, people who have thought that what they were doing was legal and have acted accordingly should have time before the end of the financial year to correct their thinking and put their affairs in order so that they know before the end of the financial year where they stand. 
I want to repeat to the Committee and to the people generally that from 1 December 1974 there should have been no one in this community who entered into this scheme who did not know he was taking a risk in doing so. I want to point out to all those people who entered into those schemes that if they were not told by their advisers, legal or accounting, that they were at risk it is high time they changed their advisers very quickly because they have immoral advisers. It is very sad for this Parliament that there are a few Government supporters- a very few- who are standing up in this place and taking the path of those few immoral advisers by supporting tax bludgers at the expense of the rest of the community. 
-Is the Minister for Productivity aware that the South Australian 
Government's Industrial Democracy Conference, scheduled for Adelaide in three weeks time, is a complete sell-out with 560 acceptances and more than 200 people already turned away? Does this not show an enormous desire in this country to find a solution to the conflict that exists in some quarters between management and workers which itself, of course, works against a growing standard of living? Is it not regrettable that the Australian national Government has not taken a lead in this area but has left the void to be filled by a State Labor Government? With such a large unsatisfied demand for consultation and dialogue, will the Fraser Government now do something about following that lead? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 16 March 1978: 
1 ) On what important national grounds did he seek the reopening of the Embassy to UNESCO in Paris and the Consulates at Los Angeles and Bombay (Hansard, 2 March 1978, pages 347 and 348). 
) Will he table a copy of his letter to the Prime Minister recommending the reopening of those 3 posts; if not, why not, and will he outline the relevant facts given in that letter. 
Did his Department include any arguments advocating the reopenings in its submission to the House of Representatives Expenditure Committee prior to that Committee reporting on overseas representation in May 1 977; if not. why not. 
What have been the costs incurred in closing the 3 posts in the last 2 years and what are the estimated costs of the reopenings. 
Has his attention been drawn to a report estimating that the cost of reopening the Consulates is $440,000; if so, is there any substance in this report and what is the cost involved. 
Has his attention also been drawn to a report that one of the costs of the reopening of the Embassy to UNESCO was the removal of the furniture chosen by the architect from the Ambassador's residence and its replacement by the then prospective Ambassador's personal furniture; if so, is there any substance in this report and what was the cost involved. 
-I take the opportunity to explain to the House that the Opposition did not call for a division on its amendment in order to leave more time available for debate, not only on the Supply Bills but also on the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2). I hope it is clear that our not calling for a division means that we in no way want to give the impression that we do not feel strongly about our amendment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-The Opposition does not oppose either of these two Bills, the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 and the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill 1978. As is the custom with these types of Bills, I intend to address myself to general questions regarding the tariff rather than to the multitude of specific amendments involved in the legislation. I do this for a couple of reasons: Firstly, the changes which cover all the tariff measures which the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  and perhaps in his stead other Ministers, has brought into this House over such a long period from April 1977, are far too numerous. Secondly, in so many cases we are well beyond the time when there could be meaningful debate on the issues. I shall come back to this in a moment. 
I turn firstly to the small Bill, the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill 1978. This Bill is to restructure sub-item 17b of the Excise Tariff to clarify the duty liability in relation to condensate included in the Government's crude oil absorption scheme. This is to correct an interpretation of this part of the Excise Tariff, which relates to indigenous crude oil. It is a machinery matter. The law was working in a way, as I understand it, contrary to the intentions of the Parliament when the Bill went through this House on an earlier occasion. This legislation clears up the matter. 
I now devote my attention to the main Bill in this cognate debate, the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978.I want to restrict my remarks in the remainder of the time available to me to general issues pertaining to this Bill. The purpose of the Bill is to enact formally the tariff changes made since April 1977. It is time- in fact it is beyond time or over time- to alter the procedures by which the Parliament considers tariff changes. I have already indicated that it is meaningless at this stage to debate the individual issues which have been brought to this House sporadically over such a long period. As these procedures stand at the moment there is little opportunity to scrutinise each individual tariff proposal. 
Let us take the one that the Minister brought to the House today relating to metal working machine tools. It might be a year before a Bill such as the one that honourable members are debating tonight is brought to the House, to give legislative backing to the decision taken by the Minister. If honourable members were meaningfully to debate the decision taken by the Government, as announced to the Parliament today, we should have to do it over the next week or two, after we had had time to study the Tariff Board report. When customs tariff amendment Bills are introduced periodically to incorporate new tariff proposals it is virtually impossible to debate satisfactorily the various tariff changes. That procedure contrasts greatly with the consideration that the Parliament is rightly expected to give to bounty proposals. 
I welcome the fact that we have separate bounty Bills. There are two on the Notice Paper at the moment. I am sure that the Minister will want them to come before the House over the next week or two- if we are to sit a second week- so that legislative backing is obtained for what is proposed. From memory, one is a book bounty Bill. Interested members will be able to devote their attention to the issue of assistance to the printing industry. Much goes through the House now of a tariff nature relating to industries which ought to be the subject of close attention by honourable members, but they do not have the opportunity to debate the issues as they should. That sort of procedure regarding tariff changes may have been satisfactory during the 1950s and 1960s, when tariff adjustments were part of a broadly accepted strategy based upon protecting Australian industry from import competition and fostering import substitution. However, honourable members must face the fact that that can no longer be the norm. 
The purpose of a tariff is to protect jobs. That is what we want the tariff to do, but it is not doing so. I am on record this week as suggesting that a freeze on the existing level of tariffs is necessary, but we need more than a tariff in this day and age. We need quotas in the short run, to protect jobs. We need to go far beyond both tariffs and quotas. We need an industry policy. To repeat: The old idea of tariffs protecting jobs might have been all right in the 1950s and 1960s but it is no longer the norm today. We need a far more imaginative industry policy than just relying on tariffs. The Parliament must pay great attention to the whole matter of industry policy. 
While he was the Opposition's spokesman on industry and commerce my colleague the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr 
Young) was aware of these problems. He proposed changes. I pay tribute to him for that. I repeat his call for more attention to be given in debates in the House to the totality of industry policy. The Government should recognise its responsibility to the Parliament in these matters. The Opposition's decision not to oppose these Bills must not be allowed to conceal its concern over the direction of the Government's industry policies. The Government's attempts to emasculate the Industries Assistance Commission and to make it an advisory body only have been debated on an earlier occasion. Its failure to overcome the numerous inconsistencies and gaps in its industry policy, as evidenced in its White Paper on Manufacturing Industry, has also been debated. All are evidence of its inadequacies in this area, as in so many other areas. 
The Government's approach to industry policy and its attitude to the tariff have changed precious little since that approach was set out in the White Paper on Manufacturing Industry. Honourable members are depressingly aware that the White Paper, being very much a compromise document, made the rather contradictory distinction between short term and long term assistance policies. In general, the short term stance was heavily status quo, or do nothing in attitude. To me the long term approach appeared to accept the need for change. But no clear guidelines were given as to how the balance could, or would, be struck between attempting to insulate industries from change and allowing for change. Still, industry, regrettably, is left floundering between the short term policy and the longer term attitude of the present Government. No doubt these contradicitions are inherent in many of the amendments contained in the Bill being debated. More particularly, the Government seems to be intent upon using the tariff, along with other means of protection against overseas competition, as its main instrument to protect employment in Australian industries and to deal with unemployment. 
That is just not good enough. As I intimated earlier, we need more than just that in order to stimulate employment in this nation. Though it is undeniable that urgent measures need to be taken to protect jobs and encourage recovery of Australian industries, it is already conventional wisdom that the Government's heavy reliance upon increasing tariffs and other protective schemes will be ineffective in achieving these desirable objectives. Rather, it is likely that such temporary assistance is merely having the effect, firstly, of increasing inflation which is causing problems for industry in its desire to be internationally competitive. Secondly, it is increasing the profits of some assisted industries and not increasing employment opportunities in those industries. Thirdly, it is reducing net employment opportunities generally by further prejudicing the position of those industries more suited to Australian conditions and which could be expected to contribute more to the economy's growth. Finally, it is delaying economic recovery. These consequences merely result in further pressures for more protection. 
To bludgeon the Industries Assistance Commission into accepting its short term approach to industry policy the Government has relentlessly pursued its attempts to muffle this advisory body with a range of tactics. I noted those tactics in an earlier debate but they are worth repeating now. Firstly, there was the IAC bashing by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcom Fraser).  That was aimed at intimidating the IAC and misleading the public as to who is to blame for the current employment difficulties. The second facet was that the terms of reference of IAC inquiries were severely limited in order to ensure that its recommendations simply advise on tariff levels necessary to maintain employment at current levels, whereas there must be a wider industry policy to promote new investment rather than just relying on the more narrow protective elements. Thirdly, there has been a limiting of the scope of IAC inquiries to very narrow product areas as opposed to allowing the IAC to apply its attention to wider industry groupings. 
We have to recognise how interdependent a lot of products are on each other. It is not good enough for a mere advisory body in so many cases to be acting as a fireman dealing with one grass fire here and another one there. Those matters should be left to the Temporary Assistance Authority. The IAC should be allowed to get on with the broader task. I shall return to that aspect in a moment. The Opposition is suspicious of a Government that deals with unpalatable advice, not simply by rejecting it, but by trying to prevent the body from giving that advice again. I repeat my point: The IAC is an advisory body. It is essential that it should be allowed to give advice in an unfettered fashion. In effect the Government's strategy of waiting until better days are here before tackling the problems of manufacuring is tantamount to adopting an anti-change or isolationist stance. I assert that because of my view that better days will not come again until the problems of Australian industry- that is, the essential reasons why many manufacturing industries are not internationally competitive- are confronted and tackled. For this reason it is unlikely that the short term, anti-change, element of the Government's strategy will ever give way to the long term, pro-change element. 
Even if it were possible to overlook the highly protectionist and isolationist nature of the Government's approach to tariff policy, as disclosed in the Government's White Paper on Manufacturing Industry, and even if one were to concentrate on the long term, pro-change, element outlined in the White Paper, there is no more cause for optimism. All the Government seems to be committed to in regard to the longerterm aspects of its industry policy is a complete reliance on tariff reductions to encourage the development of more efficient manufacturing industries in Australia. That reliance, which comes out in that longer-term element of the White Paper, is not good enough. Everything is left to the vagaries of market forces to reallocate resources between sectors and dictate the course of economic development in Australia. To add insult to injury, this apology for a policy is complemented by grossly deficient manpower programs. 
In summary, with the possible exception of the recently announced, although minimal, export incentives which we have not yet debated in this House, the Government's longer-term approach to the development of Australian industry relies on the combined effects of market forces and negative pressures- that is, punitive sticks for reducing tariffs in the long run. We on this side of the House say that that is not good enough. We must have more of the encouraging elements such as export development, research and development, positive investment policies to bolster the move for change, and to concentrate on those things that we do well so that we can do something about increasing the standard of living of the Australian people by encouraging manufacturing industry of this country. I am on the record already this week as saying that we in the Australian Labor Party believe that there is an absolute necessity for a manufacturing industry. We believe that the country cannot produce sufficient rewarding jobs without such a manufacuring industry. We believe, therefore, that a great deal more ought to be done to encourage that manufacturing industry with a wider range of policies than the present Government is relying upon. 
The only glimmer of light in all this at the present time is the Government's embarrassment over the deficiencies of the long-term aspects of its policies. In response to the almost unanimous criticism that the White Paper offered little encouragement with regard to such long-term policies it established the Crawford study group to recommend policies which might deal with structural change. For the time being, however, the nation is without any longer-term strategy for the development of viable and internationally competitive Australian manufacturing industries. Also, there is uncertainty as to how the Government will react to the recommendations of the Crawford group because of the Government's doctrinaire rejections of intervention designed to offset the effects of market forces. 
I have undertaken with the Government Whip that I would not take all the time available for me to speak. There is much I would like to say about industry policy and about the need for a body such as a national enterprise corporation to assist in relation to the crying need for investment in industry. I am very glad to note the Government's announcement yesterday of the setting up of  InterScan  Australia Pty Ltd to do the sort of work which I think is essential in bringing private industry together to create jobs and to build new industry based on Australian technology. This is the sort of direction in which industry policy should be moving. I believe that this project probably will be a once only effort on the Government's part to become involved in this sort of activity. I wish that it were not so. Certainly, we on this side of the House will be saying a great deal more about these matters in debates of this nature during the year. 
I second the motion moved by my colleague the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  urging the establishment of a department of economic development. We have just heard a most disappointing speech from the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume).  What complacency he displays. There are thousands more unemployed now than there were in the years to which he was so fond of referring during his speech, the years 1973 to 1975.  His  Party is presiding over a government which seems to be complacently happy with the existing situation. I suppose it is inevitable that someone representing the troglodyte conservative views from the other side should put forward the sort of speech we have just heard. Nevertheless, it is very disappointing. 
The honourable member misrepresented in a number of ways the views of the honourable member for Gellibrand as expounded by him in this debate. I shall list the ways in which he did this. Firstly, the honourable member for Macarthur talked about the split of the Treasury into the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Finance as being relevant. The honourable member for Gellibrand pointed out that in no way was this relevant or a substitute for having a department of economic development. The new set-up between Treasury and Finance is doing nothing more than focusing on the short term. At the most forward estimates go out to about three years for the government sector alone and these are not published in any way. So there is no value for the private sector or for the States of this nation, which have an important part in the economic development of Australia, in this work. There are no targets for which they can aim. Later in my speech I want to deal with the great importance that we place in having closer consultation with the private sector and with the States of this nation in order to be able to plan for development and for the necessary creation of jobs rather than preside, as this Fraser Government is now, over an ever increasing level of unemployment. 
The second way that the honourable member for Macarthur misrepresented the honourable member for Gellibrand was when he sought to make the point, dishonestly, that we are seeking to build up another bureaucracy. The honourable member for Macarthur made the point that Treasury is being merged into our proposed department. He made the point that other countries which are managing their economies so much better than we are managing ours- he cited Holland as one example- have such a co-ordinating economic planning department with about only 130 persons in it. Holland is bringing about this greater co-ordination and is more satisfactorily organising its economy. Indeed, this is the sort of thing that we should aim for rather than put up with the conservative views to which we have just listened. 
Thirdly, in no way is there at present a framework which provides a means of achieving the needed medium and long term planning. 
The honourable member for Macarthur talked glibly about the Economic Consultative Council. In the opinion of the Opposition that is a joke. If honourable members on the Government benches studied the Press releases that come from that body, as members of the Opposition do, they would learn that it is having extreme difficulty in putting even one page together seeking to justify the bringing of people from all round Australia to Canberra in order to discuss these grave issues. That body has no secretariat; it is just a talkfest. Though the Opposition wants to set up its own Economic Consultative Council, as the honourable member for Gellibrand intimated, it will be a meaningful body because for secretariat it will have the Department of Economic Development. That department will apply such things as impact models and other models and various talents in the nation to set down the medium and long term targets that are so vitally needed. 
The fourth point he made was that in the new division between Treasury and the Department of Finance there was some magic bringing about co-ordination. What co-ordination? There is no co-ordination between the Prices Justification Tribunal, the Industries Assistance Commission and the Trade Practices Commission of the sort that there should be. That is precisely why the Opposition is progressive in its attitudes in seeking new structures in government to bring about such co-ordination. Such co-ordination will not occur as long as the present structures remain. 
I turn now to the substance of what I wanted to say rather than spend any more time answering that disappointing conservative contribution just heard by honourable members. The proposed Department of Economic Development, which members of the Opposition see as essential for the development and co-ordination of a whole series of new initiatives, is so vital in order to get Australia out of the current mess. I have referred to the thousands more unemployed since the Fraser Government took office. The Labor Party has a plan for the creation of jobs. That task is not being done by the present Government. My comments will be largely confined to the vital role that such a department could play in fostering the necessary initiatives in the industry policy area because that is where I have the main responsibility on behalf of the Opposition. Despite the immediate presence of intolerably high levels of unemployment and inflation, the most serious problem facing Australia, in my view, has to do not only with short term instability but also with the structural problems facing Australian industry. I will show that the case for indicative planning for industry in Australia is more urgent now than ever before. An essential part of it must be a real attempt to establish and co-ordinate the various policies and programs comprising such an approach- a role that the Opposition envisages for its Department of Economic Development. 
Indicative planning differs a great deal, as the honourable member for Gellibrand pointed out, from imperative or command planning of the type practised in communist states. Indicative planning recognises the continuance of a market sector in the economic system, with a vital role for private enterprise, and it proposes that the Government should provide the private sector with information about the desired structure of the economy, the resources available, trends in their supply, and so on. That must be done in order to help private industry to make its own investment, employment and output decisions. In such a framework the Government would possibly set employment targets for certain industries. By its own investment the Government should determine the availability of certain kinds of economic infrastructure and set output goals for some industries. It should also undertake to facilitate the achievement of those goals and initiate action to develop and adapt the resources available to industry. 
As I have already suggested, the case for indicative planning in Australia is now overwhelmingly strong. I wish to explain that in more detail. In part, the need for planning derives from unsuccessful macro-economic policy attempts in recent times, namely the stop-go policies of successive Governments. I do not excuse the Labor Party Government between 1973 and 1975 in that regard. However, it started the role of setting targets by establishing the Priorities Review Staff. That Government was always under attack from the Senate. It was in government for only 18 months at a time. It achieved much during that period but in no way did it go as far as the next Labor Government will go to introduce the necessary framework for proper planning for full employment in this nation. The need for planning derives from the present unsuccessful macro attempts to get full employment and the loss of economic growth which can be associated with all that. However, the case for planning goes even beyond that. The view of the Opposition is that a mixed economy like that of Australia relying solely on the market place, even if successfully stabilised along Keynesian lines, will not produce an optimum industry structure or the maximum possible rates of growth in either employment or real standards of living if the present framework is allowed to continue. 
One of the basic attitudes of the Opposition is that the pulling and pushing of macro-economic levers, namely extra expenditures here, additions to the deficit there, lowering of interest rates somewhere else, by themselves are not going to lead to a situation of full employment with reasonable price stability and a growing standard of living. That is not to say that a more expansionary policy, as has been advocated by the Opposition over the past two or more years, involving specific stimulatory spending and an end to the attacks on real wages, is not an essential prerequisite for a return to the full employment conditions that are required. However, by themselves, these pullings and pushings of macro-economic levers will not provide the required panacea. Rather, what the Opposition believes is necessary to get the economy performing as well as it possibly can are industry and manpower policies designed to consolidate and increase the position of our manufacturing industries by facilitating the changes necessary to improve their international competitiveness. 
Good reasons exist for believing that the types of industry and manpower policies needed to achieve these aims must involve conscious indicative planning aimed at improving the performance of the nation's industries. The Opposition is convinced that the management of the change and adaption of our industries to that change, so that they are able to become more competitive internationally, requires a definite leadership role by Government in the form of indicative planning, complemented by a great deal of participation on the part of those affected. Instead, we receive aimless cries from the Government that this is socialism. The Government totally ignores the arguments put in favour of indicative planning; it totally ignores that its conservative attitudes at present are leading to thousands upon thousands more each year being thrown on the unemployment market. The Government suggests that the present sort of structure can be continued without the position becoming worse and worse. This is a reaction against the Government's misguided reliance solely upon market forces to determine the nature and structure of our industries. For many reasons, that is just not good enough. 
I have listed a number of reasons why the present situation is not good enough but I do not have time to state them. I shall summarise the reasons by saying that indicative planning is necessary as it is the only framework within which satisfactory mechanisms could be devised to ensure that the benefits of modernisation and improved competitiveness of Australian industries are maximised and shared by consumers and workers as well as the owners of capital. Indicative planning would be the only framework which would ensure that the costs of change are shared equitably across the community as a whole, as well as by future generations. The purely passive role which characterises the Government's approach is neither desirable nor necessary. 
If I had time I could list a number of prominent people in the private sector who have given support to the type of attitude that the Opposition is advancing today in this Parliament. For instance, I could quote what the director of the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures has said about the need for targets and the need for private industry to know where the Government seeks the nation to go. I could quote what was stated by the  president  elect of the Australian Institution of Engineers in respect of the same matter, but it will suffice to say that in addition to all this, our awareness that Australia is one of the last developed countries to adopt some form of indicative planning is very acute. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand mentioned some countries in Europe. What about our great trading partner, Japan? It, too, has its economic planning agency. No one is suggesting that Japan is a socialist country. I believe that even conservatives should be prepared to see that the present ad hoc reliance on the market place will not create the jobs necessary to get Australia back to a position of full employment. They should be prepared, in the interests of the nation, to introduce a department such as the one that the Opposition has put forward in the motion it has moved today. They should not wait for another two years until a Labor Government is able to do so. 
I want to outline briefly the value to the States of setting such medium and long-term targets. The States have important responsibilities- for instance, in the field of education. At the moment, they do not know what is the population policy of this country. The national Government has not set medium and long-term targets. How can the States plan properly for their respective education systems until they have such vital information? We would have representatives of the States also on an economic advisory council which would be related to our Department of Economic Development to bring about that cohesion which is so vitally necessary. It is our wish to implement indicative planning in the sense in which I have defined it. Unless we do so, there will not be an effective approach to co-ordination of the policies of the national Government. I am disappointed at the attitude of the Government. I hope that one day we will have a Department of Economic Development. 

 -Mr Speaker, you interpreted my intervention earlier about ministerial attendance at Question Time as a political one. I am sorry that I gave that impression. I want you to know that it was and should be a tradition of this House that Ministers attend all Question Times until the House decides otherwise. I felt that only you, with your authority, could uphold this tradition, and I felt that perhaps the appropriate opportunity had arrived to do so. Perhaps the new development is a result of the four-day sitting week. I simply draw this matter to the attention of the House. 

 -Mr Speaker, may I raise another matter of procedure in this House. What are the rules concerning attendance of Ministers at Question Time? There were a number of gaps on the front bench today, including that left by the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I wondered whether any new rule had been notified to you. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister and refers to the speech concerning further Federal public spending cuts, read on behalf of the suspended Minister for Finance on Monday night. Apart from the serious effect this would have of increasing unemployment, will the Acting Prime Minister give an assurance that the Labor Government initiated improvements in the fields of social security and education will not join health in being further eroded by the Government in the forthcoming Budget? Will he say definitely that pensions will continue to be indexed, that the means test will not be imposed on those who are over 70, that the allowable income for those pensioners who are under 70 will be indexed, that family allowances will not continue to lessen in real terms and that education expenditure will continue to be maintained in real terms? 
-The Customs Tariff Validation Bill 1978 is not one of those exciting Bills which we debate but indeed its subject matter is one of most importance for our country at a tune of grave economic difficulties and high unemployment. Let me state immediately that it is a machinery Bill and that the Opposition is not opposing it. However, I do want to give some background to the Bill. As we in this Parliament know but as many people who read its records may not know, tariff changes are put into operation when Parliament is sitting by the introduction of what is known as a Customs Tariff Proposal. Debate does not ensue when that Proposal is introduced to the House. Indeed, debate is adjourned and is never resumed on that particular Proposal. If Parliament is not sitting the changes are put into operation by the publication in the Government  Gazette  of a notice of intention, but those changes must be introduced into this House within 7 sitting days of the Parliament resuming. 
Another part of the background that we all need to understand is that the introduction of the Proposals or the publication of a notice of intention in the  Gazette  does not change the tariffs in the Customs TarifT Act. However, customs officers collecting the duties at the new rate are protected from legal challenge until the end of six months or until the end of the particular session of the Parliament, whichever comes first. Before that period expires, the changes have to be incorporated in the amendments to the Schedules of the Customs Tariff Act. Those honourable members who are present in the chamber and who I recognise are the people particularly interested in the subject of tariffs would know that only last week, I think it was, we passed a Bill in this Parliament known as the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill which gave effect to all those Proposals. So such a Customs Tariff Amendment Bill is normally introduced twice a year, as we know, consolidating all the Proposals introduced into the House since the passage of the previous Customs Tariff Amendment Bill. 
Further to that, in cases where the Government is unable to prepare amendment Bills in time, it may temporarily cover the situation by having passed a Customs Validation Bill. That is the situation right now in the Parliament. I have already called ii a machinery measure, pending the introduction of that amendment Bill which I suppose we must expect to be introduced in about six months time, since we have just dealt with an amendment Bill, namely, that which formally enacts the tariffproposals. 
The purpose of the Bill immediately under consideration therefore is to make all duties demanded or collected on or before 3 1 December this year, relating to Customs Tariff Proposals 
Nos. 13 and 14 introduced into this House since the introduction of the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill, 'lawfully imposed and lawfully demanded or collected '. 
I commented on these procedures when I was leading for the Opposition in the debate on the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill, and I have heard with gratitude that the Government is looking at ways and means of improving the procedures. I welcome that news. I know that this is not a party political matter. Indeed, the way in which these proposals have come into the Parliament since Federation, I suppose- I cannot give the exact history but this has been the procedure for many years anyway- has been the form in which they are now. That is not to say that there is not a better form. I think we should look at the parliaments which are closest to ours- other parliaments which adopt the Westminster system, namely, the United Kingdom, Canada and New Zealand, to mention three- to see how they deal with such proposals as these Customs Tariff Proposals. 
Perhaps the next move will be to make a reference to the Standing Orders Committee in the hope that a committee will be establishedperhaps its members will comprise those honourable members in the chamber at the moment as well as others who are interested in this subjectto look more carefully at this legislation than we are able to do in this general form of debate which we are conducting now. 
One aspect about this Customs Tariff Validation Bill which I find slightly puzzling is the reason why the Government has introduced it at this stage when I believe it has until late November to do so, if I understand the proposals correctly. That is one reason why I am entering into this debate. One of the customs of this House has been not even to debate Customs Tariff Validations Bills but to let them go through. However, as we were rather rushed in debating the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill last week, I am using this occasion to raise not only the manner in which we deal with this legislation but also to say some things I did not say in the other debate because I was anxious to allow the Whips to run the House in the way that they wanted to do so at that time. I repeat, however, what I said about the procedures on that occasion. The time is overdue to alter the procedures by which Parliament considers these tariff changes. These procedures are no longer sufficient in view of the changed attitudes about the usefulness of tariff adjustments in the pursuit of the objective of economic policy. No longer are they sufficient for our purpose. 
So we come to the subject of the tariff itself, as opposed to the procedures. Rather than debate the specific tariff changes in Proposals Nos 13 and 14, 1 intend to say something about what I consider to be the Government's failure to use tariffs properly or to complement them with industry policies which are overdue. This Customs Tariff Validation Bill is concerned with the revenue which results from the Commonwealth Government's power to impose tariffs. However, we all know that revenue raising is not the primary purpose of tariffs. For this reason it is important to subject the Government's attitudes towards tariffs to closer scrutiny. 
In relation to Tariffproposals Nos 13 and 14 of the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill, which I repeat we debated last week, I think it is fair to ask the question whether the Government is guilty of an excessive amount of tampering with tariffs. To a large extent all that the Government is really doing, in my view, is fiddling at the margins. I would say that it is fiddling with the shadow, whereas we need to get on with dealing with the substance of tariffs and what they are all about. All the Government seems to me to be doing is trying the impossible- the fine tuning of tariffs. We should recognise that the essential protection of jobs, which is so necessary while industry adapts to change, is really being achieved by the imposition of quotas rather than by the imposition of tariffs or by tariff changes. I raise the possibility of applying a freeze to this fiddling with the fringes of the tariffs while the Industries Assistance Commission gets on with the job of studying and recommending on the longer term tariff benchmarks at which we should be aiming. 
I wish to put that in another way in order to supplement what I have just said. I believe that whilst we are asking the Industries Assistance Commission to do the smaller jobs- to be the firemen to put out the grass fires that are going on around the place because of the grave economic conditions which prevail at the present time- the Industries Assistance Commission does not have the resources to do that longer term more important job of studying benchmarks. 
Another criticism which I have relates to the Government's determined attempts to stifle proper consideration of tariff changes by this independent body, the IAC. We are deeply suspicious of a government which deals with unpalatable advice, not simply by rejecting it but by trying to prevent the body from giving it. I draw the attention of the House to an article which was published in the  National Times  last weekend. It was headed 'Fraser Prepares the 
Way for Stacking the IAC. When such charges are made I think it is proper to air them in this House and to give the Government an opportunity to deny them. The summary of this article states: 
Behind a deceptively innocuous advertisement appearing in Australian papers at present lies a Government initiative which could lead to stacking the Industries Assistance Commission with supporters of  Mr Fraser's  high-protection line. 
I recognise that we need to hold the floodgates at this time of grave economic difficulty. But at the same time, we in the Opposition have asserted again and again our support for the concept of the Industries Assistance Commission as an independent advisory body giving objective advice to the Government. We do not want to see that advisory body lose its independence in any way. We value greatly the independent position and advice of the IAC. I acknowledge and welcome the presence in the House of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  and I hope that this debate will provide him with an opportunity to deny the charges made in that article. 
Even more perturbing is the Government's pretensions that its strategies for the development of industries which are heavily reliant on these tariff adjustments are quite sufficient. The Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  is regularly stating in what I consider to be a rather glib way that confidence has returned and that all we have to do now, having created the conditions for an improved economy, is sit back and wait for the private sector to do the right thing. This is the sort of thing he was saying on his return from China and it points up the stark difference between the ideologies of those in the Government parties and those on this side of the Parliament. Certainly, we have to create the conditions and we welcome the improvement in the inflation history of this country in recent months. Certainly that improvement should help a return to a higher level of economic activity but it is not good enough for the Government to sit back and wait for the recovery to happen. Even a casual glance at the Government's strategy as outlined in the White Paper on Manufacturing Industry is more than enough to dismiss out of hand what I call the smug indifference of the Minister for Industry and Commerce to the problems which have confronted, are confronting, and will continue to confront, manufacturing industries in particular and Australian industry in general. 
An essential part of the Government 's strategy revealed in the White Paper was the Government's short term industry policy aimed at protecting employment in Australian industry by increasing import barriers, including tariffs. Whilst it is undeniable that urgent measures need to be taken to protect jobs and to encourage the recovery of Australian industry, it is already conventional wisdom that the Government's heavy and singular reliance on increased tariffs and quotas will be ineffective in achieving these important objectives. What is conventional wisdom is that they will be effective. I do not believe that that ought to be conventional wisdom because we are not getting that recovery we all hoped for. It is being postponed by the policies that the Liberal-National Country Party Government is pursuing. The main indicator of the success of an economic policy is the level of unemployment and we have to face the fact that unemployment is growing. There are just not sufficient new jobs being created to take up the increase in the employable population. In fact, the number of jobs is decreasing. Even if the employable population remained static there would be an increase in unemployment and that is just not good enough. It is likely that such temporary assistance as this Government has been applying is merely having the effect in many areas of increasing the inflation rate generally and of increasing the profits of assisted industries. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member is drifting away from the subject of this Bill. I ask him to be a little more specific in his remarks. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I will remind you time and again, so that I am speaking to the nature of the Bill, that the tariff is very much part of an industry policy. I am contrasting the use of tariffs and short-term measures with the sort of things that I believe ought to be applied. I hope in those circumstances that you will agree with me that it is pertinent to raise these matters in this debate. 
-There is one economic measure above all others which we of the Labor Opposition consider to be most important, and that is the measure of employment. We believe that the object of government policy should be to provide full employment, that is, as many jobs as there are people seeking jobs. Along with full employment there must be a rise in the standard of living. By all the indicators, particularly the important indicator- the unemployment indicator- and indeed many other indicators the Fraser Government has failed. There is disillusion in this country, the people having been promised and expecting so much yet getting so little. The latest statistics show a decline in total civilian employment, not just a slow down in the rate of growth, which would be bad enough, but a decline in the total number of civilians employed in this country. The picture is a very dismal one. We have to face the unpalatable facts. If only this Government would face those unpalatable facts it might change its policy so that we would have a much improved economic program. 
The facts are that each year at the present time our work force of 6.4 million workers is increasing by about 2 per cent. This means that each year there is net somewhere between 120,000 and 128,000 additional workers in the work force. This is the net increase. I repeat the word net'. This is the number of extra jobs that it is obligatory on those who seek to rule this country to create if we want to put into work those extra people coming into the work force. That net figure is over and above those who are retiring. 
We need a growth rate- a growth in our gross national product, our GNP- of at least 5 per cent. We are achieving nowhere near this growth rate, according to the latest estimates which indicate that the rate is only about 2 per cent. We are living at a time when so much of our emphasis is and, I concede, must be on increased international competitiveness, on increased productivity. This provides for a growth rate of about 3 per cent. We need to maintain an additional 2 per cent above that 3 per cent, making a total of 5 per cent, to which I alluded, in order merely to absorb the present increase in the numbers joining the work force. We need a growth rate of yet a further 5 per cent, making a total of 10 per cent, to absorb in one year the great proportion of the half million presently unemployed in this country. We will need a growth rate of this magnitude if we are to get that half million back to work and achieve full employment, which is the Australian Labor Party's aim. These are the facts. This is the difficult scenario which we are bound to face and which we assert the Government is not facing. 
The Government is failing dismally in the task of getting the country moving. The picture gets worse as every week goes by. Just Wednesday of last week, to take just one day, we were subjected to the miserable news of three disastrous results. I would like to use that one day and those three results as an indication of what is happening. First, there were the production figures. My time is short so I must give just the bald facts. Those figures showed that in 19 of 32 categories for which production statistics are given there were lower figures for production output than there were in the previous month. But that was not the only picture. Not only were the figures for April lower when compared with March but also over a longer period, for the 3 months to the end of April compared with the 3 months to the end of January, 19 of the 32 production output figures were lower. To say the very least, Australian industrial output is weak. This is the message one gets from businessmen and trade unionists everwhere when one visits the various industry groups in this country. 
The second miserable announcement on that day last week related to the latest consumer surveys. The Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research, along with the Roy Morgan Research Centre Pty Ltd conducted a series of sixweekly surveys on consumer attitudes and intentions. The index of consumer sentiment dropped a further four points between the April and March surveys. This followed a drop of 4.4 points between March and January. This shows that the short term attitude towards the economy taken by the Australian people is, to say the very least, in a downward trend. Over the last sixweek period alone 8 per cent fewer people thought favourably than those who thought unfavourably about prospects. Why is this happening? It is happening because there is a growing realisation that the Fraser Government's economic policies are wrong and inept; that they need to be changed and that there is a desperate need for them to be changed right now. 
The third important indicator which was released on Wednesday of last week was published by an industry body- the Metal Trades Industry Association. It showed that average capacity utilisation of companies in the Association was dropping still further. In other words, no substantial recovery was to be expected in that important labour-intensive industry on which the return to full employment depends to such a large extent. Capacity utilisation in the factories of members of the Association is now under 70 per cent and, I repeat, is still dropping. 
The reality is that the economic recovery promised to the Australian people at the last election campaign by every member of the Liberal and National Country parties is just not happening. It was a false promise. Consumer confidence is eroding. The level of unemployment is up even though people are dropping out of the work force. Industrial production is stagnant. Industry itself is forecasting that conditions will get worse, not better. Where on earth is that boost which was supposed to result from the February tax cuts? It is nowhere, as we in the Labor Party forecast at that time. It is nowhere because the increased health charges and other imposts on the less well off in the community have resulted in wealth being transferred from those who have less to those who have a little more. This was not even in the best interests of those who have a little more, to say nothing of those who have less. It is not the way to get our economy moving so that we are all better off. We need more spending power in the pockets of those who spend- those who are less well off and who desperately need to spend in order to maintain their living standards. This is not just crying gloom, as I am sure some of those on the other side of the House will say. It is facing the stark facts in the hope that policies will be changed, so we can get this country going again. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  needs to stay here and face these facts and to listen to a little reality from the Australian people rather than flying away on his ego-boosting exercises overseas to engage in his absurd activities of seeking to persuade others to follow his own inept, unsuccessful, contractionary economic policies. It is bad enough for him to do it here. We are the sufferers. We need a return to a higher level of activity in the world economy. Yet the Prime Minister goes abroad to lecture to those who see the situation clearly. He seeks to persuade them to allow a lower rate of economic activity. That is quite absurd. I repeat that the Prime Minister needs to stay here and think about and study his Government's coming Budget. 
We heard a speech from the suspended Minister for Finance, promising us worse policies, not better ones. We need the Prime Minister here to tell us what status this speech of the suspended Minister for Finance has. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  asked a question about that speech yesterday. I asked a question about it the day before. All we get from the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  is stalling. While we have this stalling we have problems because there is a further lack of confidence. Last Wednesday I asked the Acting Prime Minister whether pensions are to be increased; whether they are to be maintained in real terms by continued indexation. Is indexation to be deferred as has been suggested? There was no denial from the Acting Prime Minister. If these matters are not to be considered why did the Acting Prime Minister not make a denial? Why did he not state there and then that pensions would be maintained? Is the means test to be reimposed for those people over 70 years of age? There has been no denial of this assertion at Question Time. There have been two opportunities- yesterday and the day before- to do so. 
Is education to join health and possibly security as a victim of real cuts? This would be the implication of the speech from the suspended Minister for Finance. There was no denial of this. We need a Prime Minister here to allay our fears, not an Acting Prime Minister who further kills confidence by failing to deny these charges, these possible options which the Government could take. The options which the suspended Minister for Finance raised are a further denial of justice to those who are less well off in the community and they should be denied. Giving these people less spending power- and this would be possible under the options put forward by the suspended Minister for Finance- would only result in a worsening economy. 
The States have a right to know what will happen to them. There were serious implications in the speech that was made by the suspended Minister for Finance last Monday night about what might happen to the States. The serious implications of that speech were certainly along the lines of the States being hit to leg. To date the States have saved us from some of the worst aspects of Fraser Government economic and social policies. They have taken up a little of the slack. One would not know it if one looked at the unemployment figures climbing as they have. Indeed, when we look at what the States have tried to do we see that particularly the Labor States have saved us from an even worse fate than otherwise would be the case. They have employed more people to save the dole queues from growing even further. Now apparently they are to have their funds cut, forcing them to create more unemployment and to lessen their services or, alternatively, to impose double taxation on the people, as they could if they adopted the Bill which was rushed through this House yesterday without proper consideration. 
I come now to what the Labor Party suggests as an alternative policy. Clearly, the creation of new jobs is the greatest challenge we face at a time when Fraser Government policies are causing thousands more to join the dole queues each year. Clearly, concentrating solely on reducing inflation and interest rates and leaving, Micawber-like, the return to full employment in the hands of private business decision-makers is unfair and unsuccessful. Like  Mr Micawber,  the Government is just waiting for something to turn up. This is the Fraser Government's record. 
Business is still struggling to be more competitive. It is inevitably investing in automation. It is deepening its investment in this area and consequently is shedding labour. It is not good enough for the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  to say that confidence is returning and that the investment figures are up. Investment figures are not an indication of what is happening in the economy. All that is happening is that investment is deepening and machines are taking the place of men. What we want is investment to widen so that new jobs are created. 
Certainly the more expansionary general macro-economic policies advocated by the Australian Labor Party would help enormously. We need more government spending on public works programs to create new jobs and to help stimulate a return of confidence. But governments of the correct philosophical outlook can help more than this. I am referring, of course, to governments of a progressive nature- governments like an Australian Labor Party government. We need a body to promote national investment. Let me call it an Australian enterprise corporation. We cannot just stand back and say that we are creating the conditions and that inevitably the private sector will take up those conditions. We have to promote investment. We have to seek out new investment opportunities on behalf of the community. We have to promote investment widening, I repeat, and to create new jobs. 
There is a gap in our institutional framework at the present time. Labor would fill that gap by establishing such a corporation, perhaps by revamping the existing Australian Industry Development Corporation. Our political opponents will wallow in their ideological straightjacket, utter cries of socialism and allow the ranks of the unemployed to grow still further, instead of getting on with implementing progressive new imaginative policies which are so desperately needed at the present time. There is so much that such a corporation could do in the way of stimulating investment, in getting consortia together, and in getting some capital to top up finances in cases where a new project is not receiving sufficient support from the private sector. I could point to a number of ventures in relation to which such a corporation could have got investment going again in recent weeks. I refer, for instance, to what is happening in relation to phosphate in Queensland at the present time. I refer also to the need to build aluminium smelters in this country instead of just looking at the newspapers in the hope of seeing that the private sector intends to get such projects off the ground. I could refer to  Mr Ralph  Sarich and his research into and development of a new engine. Are we just to wait in the hope that some private company will do these things? We should not do that. We need a Labor government to see that the proper investment takes place. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Has he studied the results of the annual survey of the metal trades by the Metal Trades Industry Association to which 565 firms responded? Has he noted that after two years of his Government's policies the work force in the industry has declined drastically with a further 5.7 per cent fall in employment in the period March 1977 to March 1 978? Has he noted that there has been a further decline also in the utilisation of production capacity? What plans has he to create jobs rather than preside over a further decline? 
-This is the first in a long line of 1978 Budget Bills that we will be debating in this House. The adjectives that I want to apply to the Budget generally could- and I emphasise the word 'could'- apply to this Bill. Those adjectives are 'brutal' and contractionary'. It could lead to unemployment. It could also be a dishonest Bill. Again I emphasise the word 'could' because we know so little about the Bill that we are presently debating. 
The Bill could be brutal and contractionary if it adds to all the imposts that were announced last night. Of course, we know that its object is to raise $7Sm, so it does add to the imposts. I should have said that it will add to the imposts on ordinary Australians, the consumers of this nation, rather than, as was suggested in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  merely put an impost on importers who are making monopoly profits. In the second reading speech the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  referred to: 
. imposition of a special additional duty of 12.S per cent on imports of certain finished goods. . . . 
What assurances have we that this 12Vi per cent will not add to the cost of those goods? The hopeful assertions by the Treasurer in the Budget Speech are noted and supported by us in the Opposition. The Treasurer said in his Budget Speech: 
I would like to point out that it is not intended that these arrangements should have any additional protective effect. 
One assumes from that that he does not expect 12 per cent to be added to the cost of the particular goods. But we look in vain at the second reading speech of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs on this Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 3) last night for some reassurance that this is not so, for some statement of intention that this should not be so and for some idea of how the Minister and the Government will set up machinery to ensure that the goods that are listed in the Bill before us will not be savagely increased in price for the ordinary Australian and the ordinary housewife buying the goods because of the savage increase in customs duty on all these items. 
Reference was made by the Treasurer to import quotas. I shall not read the reference verbatim, but he said that import quotas confer on importers who hold them a substantial advantage over those who do not, thus giving rise in many cases to monopoly profits. The implication is that all of this 12 'A per cent should come from those monopoly profits. But what further assurances have we on this subject? The second reading speech of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, who is at the table, was a mere 12 lines in length and certainly gave us no assurances of the sort that I am seeking. I repeat that it certainly gave us no idea of how machinery could enable the Minister to give those assurances. 
The assumption must be, as I have implied up to this point, that this Bill adds to the Budget imposts. It adds to the impost of the income tax surcharge that was brought in by a government which won an election on a promise to reduce taxes. It also adds to the other increases in indirect charges contained in the Budget last night. Of course, I am referring to the increased levies on beer, cigarettes and petrol. Further, it adds to the impost on ordinary Australians, for instance, by means testing pensions for those over 70 years of age. We could go on through the horrific list of further imposts that have been made on Australians. We might even make the point, as has been made already, that the Government is levying even a $10 airport charge on us when we try to escape from all these additional charges that were made in the Budget Speech that we had to put up with in this Parliament last night. The first point to be made by the Opposition is that we want to know what will be the machinery to ensure that the consumers of this nation will not be charged the extra 12V per cent tariff which is to be placed on goods by the Bill we are now debating. That is only the brutal and contractionary part of the Bill; there is more to it than that. 
I mentioned earlier that this could be a dishonest Bill. I also mentioned that that adjective could be used about the Budget generally. It could be dishonest because we were promised lower taxes and we got higher taxes and because we were promised that there would not be any meddling with Medibank and we have seen the changes that were announced last night. The dishonesty in regard to this Bill is that the resumed debate was rushed on within 24 hours without an explanation of why that should be so. It was rushed on without any explanation as to the machinery to ensure that the charges are not passed on. This Bill is being rushed through the House in the manner with which we are dealing with it tonight without any justification of it as a way of siphoning off any monopoly profits that importers may be making. We would like more information about this. We would like canvassed in this House an explanation of why there are not other ways to siphon off any monopoly profits there may be in the importing of these goods. We would like some information from the department concerned, through the responsible Minister, as to the sort of profits they are. What is the quantification of them? To what extent will $75m be a suitable sum to siphon off from these profits? But we are given no information of this sort. 
As the responsible shadow Minister I learnt at about 1 1 o'clock this morning, just as my parliamentary party was about to meet, that this matter was to be debated today. We were not given time to study it in the depth in which we would like to study it, and we certainly were not given in the second reading speech or from any other source the information to enable us to debate the measure adequately. If the purpose of it is to add to the costs of imports to protect Australian made goods, let us say so. But the opposite was said by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech last night. If the purpose is to add to the cost of imports in order to collect revenue, let us say that as well. But let us learn the true purpose of it and let us see how that purpose is to be carried out. I repeat: The second reading speech did not tell us. 
I wish to say something now about my Party's attitude to Australian manufacturing industry because it is very relevant to this measure. If the aim of the measure is merely to siphon off monopoly profits, we support that aim; but we do not support this way of protecting Australian industry. We know that it is absolutely essential for this country to have a manufacturing sector and we are on record in many places as stating that it is the Australian Labor Party's aim that there should be a large manufacturing sector. We know that in the present economic circumstances the aim must be to make that manufacturing sector internationally competitive, which means aiming for increased productivity. 
We know also that great help must be given to get economics of scale through assistance for exports, research and development and in some cases even for mechanisation to achieve that productivity. We believe we need planning mechanisms in this country to bring about that situation. But we have not got such planning mechanisms. We are developing a detailed policy as to what those planning mechanisms should be. In our view the Industries Assistance Commission should be concentrating on long term tariff bench marks. It should be working out in what areas we should be applying our resources so that we can increase the standard of living of the Australian people and on which industries we should be concentrating in order to get the best results. At the moment that is not happening. The IAC resources are being used to too great an extent elsewhere for that to happen. But I repeat that we believe that changes must be made towards applying resources to those areas where we require lesser tariffs rather than to those areas where we require higher tariffs. 
Of course also we state that we must ensure growth of new industries in our community based on our research and development, on the upvaluing of our minerals and on areas where we have a natural protection, such as perhaps high transport costs to this country. Having said that, however, I point out that we have many great industries in this country which are labour intensive and with which we must be very sensitive. We believe that at the moment the quota is the proper way to protect those industries. The tariff is not the proper means to afford that protection. That is why we assert clearly that we do not support the idea of adding to costs, for instance, in the case of motor cars by adding a further 12 te per cent to the existing 45 per cent tariff, bringing it up to 57te per cent- when the quota is the proper means of ensuring that sufficient Australian-made vehicles are being produced to ensure that as much as possible there is full employment in this country. 
Because we are very worried about this extra tariff impost, known as a special customs duty, of 12H per cent being added and because we know that already a quota is protecting the industries concerned, we feel that much more explanation should be given about the effect of this 12te per cent tariff before we can support the Government in this measure with any certainty and any happiness. I repeat that we must not rely on tariff alone for protection in these sensitive areas; we must rely on quotas. We do not support such a large impost which we feel will end up adding to the costs of this nation, feeding the consumer price index and indeed causing much more trouble than it will cure. So we support quotas while change is taking place and while we are moving to areas where economies of scale and a lower unit cost can result. 
We agree that quotas cause problems. In fact a colleague of mine, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  about six months ago addressed a question in this House to the Minister on the very problems involved in trading in quotas and on the high profits being made as a result of quotas being applied. We are not satisfied with any explanations given to us at this time that this is the way to cure that situation. To use a Scottish term, the case is not proven. That is why we ask the Government to let us know why it has not chosen the option, for instance, of putting quotas out to tender, or of auctioning the quotas or of ensuring that manufacturers should get these quotas. Perhaps any profits of manufacturers could offset the costs of manufacture and thereby ensure more manufacture in this country. I know that all these options have their difficulties but I believe that it is the job of the Government to bring these options to the Parliament. The Minister in his second reading speech on a measure such as this should tell the Parliament about these options and why the Government has not chosen the alternative options but instead has chosen this option which has all the dangers that I have already indicated. 
I repeat that we realise that quotas have many difficulties and we recognise them. But I also repeat that the options ought to be canvassed in the Parliament. So far in discussing why this measure in our view is dishonest we have only scratched the surface. Why is this Bill being hastily rushed through the Parliament? We have not been told the reason. There is probably a very good technical reason but it ought to be spelt out rather than giving us just a few hours to engage in a meaningful debate. 
Let me raise a number of other questions which I believe also need answering. For instance, no explanation was given last night, in the Budget Speech or in the second reading speech on this Bill, about why the goods that are mentioned in this Bill are subject to this 12te per cent tariff when other goods which are also the subject of quota have not been included. I think the House deserves an explanation on this matter. No explanation has been given anywhere as to the reasoning which led to the choice of a 12 te per cent tariff. Why did the Government choose 12te per cent? Why not 15 per cent? I indicated earlier that we do not know from any information given by the Government what these monopoly profits are. Let us learn from the Government what they are and then we may be able to make a judgment as to whether $97m siphoned off in a full year by 12te per cent is the correct amount. 
Another question which comes to mind is the nature and extent of the monopoly profit problem associated with these quota arrangements. I have already implied that we would like to know a lot more about that problem. Is this just a revenue raising exercise- I have already asked that question- or is it another way to clobber the consumer in addition to all the various ways that were mentioned in last night's Budget Speech? Before going any further, let me raise two legal considerations which should also be noted in considering this Bill. 
Firstly, I believe that there are some doubts whether the Government can unilaterally impose such additional duties because sections 23(3) and 23 (4) of the Industries Assistance Commission Act specify that the Minister should not increase or reduce duties imposed on imported goods without first referring the matter to the IAC for recommendation. In this Bill are we not increasing the duties to be imposed on goods? 
How do we reconcile this situation with the particular sections of the IAC Act? Is the Government trying to sidestep this requirement by having a Minister, other than the Minister responsible for the Act, announce the tariff increase? That was one suggestion put forward when the financial Press leaked the information that this measure would be brought in. I cannot see that that suggestion applies because my knowledge of affairs is that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs is the Minister responsible for the IAC Act and he was the Minister who introduced this measure in the Parliament last night. 
Not only is the legality of this measure in doubt, as I suggested- several importer groups have already indicated their preparedness to challenge its legality- but also there is a moral question of the wisdom of the Government embarking on this course of action without considered advice as to the effects of this decision. Perhaps the Government has already received considered advice but I believe it is the duty of the Government and of the Minister to tell the House about that considered advice. Let me read from the particular sections of the Industries Assistance Commission Act. Section 23 (3) states in part: 
The Minister shall not take any action in respect of any of the matters specified in sub-section (4) . . . unless he has received a report of the Commission in relation to that matter under this Act . . . 
I suggest that in the case of all the goods specified in this Bill such a report from the IAC under the meaning of that section has not been received. Section23 (4) (b) states: 
Whether duties imposed on goods of a particular description imported into Australia should be removed or the rates of those duties should be increased or reduced; 
Of course, the rates of duty are to be increased under this Bill. But that is not the only legal impediment which I believe applies to this Bill. I also want to draw the attention of the House to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Does this Bill not breach Australia's international commitments in the General Agreement? Does it not breach the GATT rules as we know them? A member cannot break such a commitment without some offsetting form of compensation. Instead, it is believed that the Government will invoke Article XIX of GATT, arguing that the tariff increase is necessary for balance of payments purposes. Clearly this is not the intention of this measure for it runs counter to the Treasurer's assertion that 'it is not intended that these arrangements should have any additional protective effect'. Rule (1) of Article XXXVII of GATT in part states: 
The developed contracting parties shall to the fullest extent possible- that is, except when compelling reasons, which may include legal reasons, make it impossible- give effect to the following provisions: 
b ) Refrain from introducing, or increasing the incidence of, customs duties ... on products currently or potentially of particular export interest to fessdeveloped contracting parties; 
It is clear that many of the goods covered by this legislation are of enormous interest particularly to the less developed contracting parties to GATT. We do not believe that Article XIX applies because the Treasurer has said that it is not intended that the goods should increase in price. Article XIX would let us out. However, we are told nothing about this in any information that is given in this House and we object to that. On behalf of the Opposition I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the House declines to give the Bill a second reading until the Government gives the House a satisfactory explanation inter alia as to- 
whether the Bill is in conflict with section 23 (3) and section 23 (4) of the Industries Assistance Commission Act; 
b ) why the Bill disregards the commitments accepted by Australia as signatory to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, and 
what machinery will be used to ensure that the additional Customs duty will be paid from 'monopoly profits ' and will not be added to the price of the goods concerned '. 
Apart from the legal considerations I want to remind the House of the points that I have made. Whether this measure achieves the aims set out by the Treasurer- that is, allegedly to raise revenue and not to raise levels of either protection or inflation- depends crucially upon the extent to which importers of the goods affected are able to pass on the higher duties as higher prices. Apparently the Treasurer and I suppose the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs believe that importers will not raise their prices so that the duties will be paid for out of profits. Is this not a naive belief? Market forces will do this only if either one of two conditions apply: First, imports are price sensitive so that the increase in price will lower the quantity demanded on imported goods; or, secondly, there is no unsatisfied demand for imported goods so that higher prices will lower the quantity demanded. We have no evidence that either of those two conditions apply. Both situations would have the effect of importers failing to sell all their quotas and pressuring prices to remain at their previous levels. 
Do we think this will be the effect? I do not, and 1 certainly do not believe that most informed people in the community would do so. 
In other words, we will certainly have an addition to costs by this 12te per cent impost. Even if market forces have this effect in the long run, this does not deny that the immediate effect will be higher prices for imported goods, greater inflation and the ability of domestic producers also to raise their prices and their profits. However, market forces alone are highly unlikely to have that expected effect just described even in the long run. More likely importers will be able to pass on their cost to the consumer because either imports are relatively price insensitive- in other words, they can be sold almost for whatever price is asked- or there is some unspecified demand for imports. I assert further that these direct effects are not the only consequences. There are also indirect effects. The domestic manufacturer will be able to increase his price in line with the importer's price increase, but this will only mean profit increases not employment increases. I assert also that his production and employment levels will not rise; they may even fall as the declining real wage effects of price rises of other imported goods reduce the demand for domestic goods. 
Furthermore, there would be additional falls in domestic production and employment associated with a retaliation by our trading partners upon the goods they currently import from us. There would also be the increased use of the penalty quota under tariff quota arrangements since the disability of these penalty rates of duty are decreased as the additional duties are placed on the quota goods only. There is no guarantee at all that these detrimental effects will not occur, increasing simultaneously both inflation and unemployment. Already there is evidence of our trading partners being furious with this measure. I have had feedback today about the effect this measure has had on some of our major trading partners, and I believe that retaliatory measures will be taken against us because of the fact that this measure has been brought into this Parliament. I have asked for more information about the 12 te per cent rate. 
In summary, I make the point that the purport of the Opposition's amendment is to delay the passage of this Bill while questions are answered. I do not think any objective observer of this Parliament could disagree with me when I say that we are debating this measure without satisfactory information being given to this House. We believe that the legislation will place an additional impost on prices, in spite of what the 
Treasurer has said in his speech. The Opposition believes that it is proper to protect the particular industries but this has to be done sensitively by quotas and not by increased prices at this time. We believe that there are such legal impediments that the Government would be well advised not to rush this measure through this Parliament at this time, but to look at the points that I have raised and give the House the courtesy of providing proper answers to my questions before asking us to vote on this Bill. 
-The House is discussing not only the Bounty (Agricultural Tractors) Amendment Bill 1978 but also the Bounty (Books) Amendment Bill 1 978. 1 give notice to those who are paying attention to the debate on these Bills that they do not rivet the attention to any great extent and are not likely to bring down the Government, particularly as the Opposition does not oppose either of them. 
I shall deal first with the Bounty (Books) Amendment Bill. It is so long since it was introduced into this House- indeed, it was before the recess- that its purpose is worth repeating; that is, to give effect to the Government's decision to continue to give assistance by way of a bounty to producers of books in Australia for a further period of 12 months. That period of 12 months is the calendar year 1979. It is right and proper that the Government should give advance notice of its being prepared to continue to pay this bounty for the calendar year 1979 because many of the orders which would come under the provisions of this Bill and which are placed by publishers and others who get printing done are being placed now, although the printing may not be carried out until the next calendar year. So it is important that advance notice be given so that the necessary planning can take place. 
The Opposition welcomes the introduction of this measure. We know that it is an interim measure while the Government gives consideration to an Industries Assistance Commission report on the longer term future of the printing industry as it relates to books and the material which attract a bounty under the provisions of the Bill now before us. I understand that that report from the Industries Assistance Commission was delivered to the Government on 1 August and that the Government is now considering its position in relation to the report. It would be helpful to me and to others who take an interest in Australian industry, in particular the printing industry, if the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  would be good enough when he is replying in this debate to give the House an indication of when the Government might make a decision on that IAC report. 
I look upon it as a privilege to represent the Opposition on various industry advisory councils. One of those councils is the Printing Industry Advisory Council. I am sure it would be of enormous help if at its meeting on 3 1 August of this year that Council could have some indication of what the Industries Assistance Commission has recommended to the Government and what the Government's attitude might be. Alternatively, if we learned only what the IAC's recommendations are the Printing Industry Advisory Council may give the Government some helpful advice in relation to what its attitude to the IAC report should be. 
The Bill that should take up more of our time in this debate is the Bounty (Agricultural Tractors) Amendment Bill 1978 because it is not just an interim measure. It provides for some time to come for bounty on the manufacture of larger tractors. The purpose of the Bill is to give effect to the Government's decision to provide assistance for the manufacturing in Australia of agricultural tractors with an engine output exceeding 105 kilowatts. The Government has accepted the advice on this matter that is contained in the Industries Assistance Commission's report of 18 August 1977. This follows the Government's earlier decision to pay a bounty on tractors with an engine output of up to 105 kilowatts. The decision is to afford assistance by providing for the payment of a bounty which takes into account both the degree of local content- the minimum amount of local content allowed in a tractor for it to attract this bounty being 55 per cent- and the degree of tractor power. That is why we see the reference to 105 kilowatts. 
Provision is made for the amount of the bounty to be adjusted quarterly and to reflect import price movements as measured by the Reserve Bank. It is just as well that the Reserve Bank makes available these measurements. I take the opportunity of saying how valuable it is for decision-makers to have such statistics. There are many other statistics which we are not now receiving because of the Government 's staff ceilings and its general attitude to Government spending and which we should be receiving from the Australian Bureau of Statistics to help decision-making in this and related economic areas. When people in our community mindlessly join tax revolts they ought to remember that one of the results of such revolts is that this country is more badly governed because we do not have satisfactory statistics on which to base proper decisions. 
I come back to the bounty on tractors. The maximum amount payable in terms of March 1976 import prices is mentioned in the Bill. It is $3,480 for every tractor with 100 per cent local content and a take-off of 150 kilowatts. No indication is given of the extent to which tractor prices will fall as a result of the bounty scheme, but of course we must accept that the IAC has done its homework and that this is the amount that is necessary to enable tractors made in Australia to be competitive with imported tractors. The IAC report stated: 
Information on the value of tractor sales is not available. 
The industry producing these large tractors at present comprises three small firms building a limited number of tractors. One firm is in Western Australia, another is in New South Wales and the third is in Victoria. A couple of months ago when I looked at this subject I could say with confidence that each of these producers manufactured tractors with a local content of less than 55 per cent and therefore would not be eligible for the bounty; but I understand that one of these small companies, the company in Victoria, now may be manufacturing tractors with more than 55 per cent local content and therefore under the provisions of this Bill may be eligible to receive the bounty. The IAC reported: 
. none of these interests, however, sought assistance and none was represented at the inquiry. 
However, I believe that the manufacturer in Victoria now will be glad that it is receiving a benefit in spite of the fact that it did not put in a submission. When I first looked at this question I could say with confidence that requests for assistance were received from only two potentialthey were large- manufacturers of smaller tractors, Chamberlain John Deere Pty Ltd and International Harvester Australia Ltd. The Chamberlain company informed the IAC that it was then engaged in feasibility studies but it was unable to provide the Commission with any details. International Harvester informed the IAC, with respect to large tractors: 
No consideration has been given, oris likely to be given, in the next three years at least, to local production . . . 
Nevertheless more recent information shows that both of those companies may soon, if they have not already, enter into the production of tractors which would attract the bounty which is the subject of the Bill before the House this afternoon. The market for these large tractors has grown rapidly in recent years. You,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as a representative of a country electorate, would know that. With the economies of scale that have been brought about of necessity, resulting in the amalgamation of properties into larger units, larger tractors are now being used, whereas in earlier years the smaller tractor was more prevalent. 
In 1975-76. sales of the larger tractor totalled 1,374 units. The trend towards larger tractors is projected to continue, with a doubling of the number sold in 1975-76, that is, 1,374 units, by 1983-84 which is the last year for which projections have been made. Virtually all such tractors were imported, with the Chamberlain and International Harvester companies accounting for more than 50 per cent of imports. The IAC did not recommend assistance for manufacturers of larger tractors at the previous inquiry into tractors because at that time it had no knowledge of local production of larger tractors. In its report the IAC stated: 
The decision not to recommend assistance . . . was considered unlikely to have adverse equity or resource allocation effects. 
The IAC admitted: 
Established manufacturers ... did not seek assistance . . . potential manufacturers were unable to promote any detailed information concerning possible future production. 
Yet the Commission argued that developments in the tractor market and industry made it desirable to resolve the question of assistance for larger tractors so as to avoid undesirable longer term consequences, such as distortions of commercial judgment concerning future production patterns of tractors above or below 105 kilowatts. We all will understand that when people are making decisions about tractor manufactures, even in the smaller range below 105 kilowatts, it is important that they should know all the facts about what they would receive by way of bounty if tractors above 105 kilowatts were manufactured. These developments include the trend towards larger tractors and the potential entry into local production of the principal importers. These are all factors which must be taken into consideration in the longer term planning in this area of manufacturing tractors. Again the IAC report stated: 
The Commission considers that assistance to tractor production should be uniform across the actual and potential range of production. 
Assistance to smaller' tractor manufacturers is currently being phased down over a period to 1 January 1982, to a lower long term rate of assistance estimated to be equivalent to an effective rate of assistance of about 25 per cent. What we are saying is that if the assistance being given for the manufacture of smaller tractors by way of bounty were analysed, one would find that the tariff equivalent would be about 25 per cent. 
I am sure the Minister would agree that as we look at Australian industry we tend to divide it into areas related to tariff or tariff equivalent. The area receiving 25 per cent tariff and below is a relatively low tariff rate area and one to which we should encourage resources to be applied if we are to maximise the use of those resources and therefore to increase our standard of living. I would say that the area receiving between 25 per cent and 50 per cent tariff is medium ground. I think the Government looks upon the medium ground as being the area receiving between 25 per cent and 35 per cent tariff, although it has not spelt that out. In that area we should mark time and keep what we have without perhaps putting a lot of resources into increasing production and increasing the application of resources. In my case, the area receiving above 50 per cent tariff, or, in the Government's case, the area attracting above 35 per cent tariff is one which we have to treat with great sensitivity, particularly where there is a high labour content, but one in which we would not altogether encourage new activity and new resources to be applied because that would not be the best use of those resources in order to maximise the standard of living. 
I mention that because it seems that if there is an effective tariff rate of about 25 per cent on tractors that comes into that lower range and is something which we should encourage. Our intuitive judgment would tell us that, as a country which, in large part, is based on rural production has a lot of ability to apply research and development in a mechanical area such as this and has such a large market for rural production to the north, and as a tractor is heavy to transport and therefore would have a natural protection, perhaps the manufacture of tractors is an area into which we should be applying resources and seeing that employment is created. 
In summary, the bounty scheme recommended is merely an extension to tractors of up to 150 kilowatts of the bounty which has been operating for tractors below 105 kilowatts and which we know from an earlier report and an earlier Bill which is now an Act will continue to be applied until 1 January 1982. These are the facts. I have given some attitudes of the Opposition on those facts inasmuch as I have stated that we are not in any way opposing the Bill and inasmuch as I have stated that with an effective tariff rate of 25 per cent this is an area which should be encouraged. 
I would like to make a few more comments on this sort of legislation. We of the Opposition welcome the increased use of bounties by the Government as a means of protecting industry. However, it would seem that the Government is considering the life of bounties in only a relatively narrow range of specific circumstances, circumstances which are evident in this case of tractors. We want bounties, of course, because they help to keep the cost of the particular product to the consumer lower. This is particularly important where they are the initial product in a long line of processes which end up with the consumer. 
Let me just identify the factors which apply in this case. First, the local industry is capable of supplying only a small share of the market at the present time. So there is scope for a greater use of local industry to supply a larger share of the existing market. Secondly, it is an industry which could become export oriented. I mentioned a little earlier that this product could be exported in particular to our Asian neighbours to the north of us. A third factor which is evident about tractors and which is worth mentioning in the general context is that the producer provides a very early but substantial input in the production and distribution chain in this area. Tractors are used for many purposes. They are used at an early stage of the production and distribution chain. If we can keep the costs low at the beginning of the production and distribution chain the product is much less likely to end up with all the mark-ups that are added further along the production chain. It is more likely that there will be a greater beneficial effect if one can apply the bounty at the first stage. 
In other words, the costs of the end product are kept a lot lower. I am very glad that the honourable member of Wakefield approves of the way in which I am putting this across. The Opposition hopes that there will be a much greater potential for bounties than seems to apply at present. However, we will not get this while we have an attitude to government spending which relates to unpopular things such as inefficiency and so on. I think it behoves all of us on both sides of the House to point out to the people, particularly when there is a campaign such as the present one, that things such as bounties which reduce the cost of a product to the consumer also come under the heading of government spending. 
The Opposition believes that the Government needs to look more closely at the possibilities of using bounties rather than tariffs. Of course, this tendency would have a twofold impact upon the Government's budgetary management. There would be a cost to revenue of paying out the bounty and there would also, of course, be a loss to revenue by not receiving the tariff. But really it is necessary for us all to give consideration to schemes to finance bounty payments because they are so much better than applying the tariff. 
Perhaps consideration might be given to profit limitations on bounty payments to provide a safeguard against unreasonably high profits being earned by producers in receipt of assistance. We want manufacturers to be helped in this way if it creates rewarding jobs but not if the bounty is going only towards providing larger excess profits. I am not making the charge that there is any evidence that excess profits are being made in this way but probably we would find that there are cases in which the payment of bounties is leading to excess profits. Therefore I believe the Government's object should be to establish machinery to see that this does not happen. 
Whilst not opposing this Bill there are some considerations which require more thought before we rush into across-the-board bounty payments too enthusiastically. I hope that I have canvassed some of the issues. I would like to make a couple of other points. The recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission was based upon the view that the level of assistance should be neutral across all sections of the agricultural tractor industry. Thus a bounty is recommended even before any significant production of larger tractors has been attempted in Australia. This assumes that the long run level of assistance to smaller tractors- that is the 25 per cent effective rate of assistance- is the optimum one relative to other activities, both in the manufacturing sector and beyond. It is extremely difficult to accept that this is necessarily the case given the present 'Indian file' series of end-on tariff reviews. Certainty on this issue would be likely only if variations in rates of assistance reverted to large scale integrated reviews. I have said before- the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs is probably tired of hearing it from me- that I hope that the Government will be able soon to give the IAC more resources for bench mark longer term work which I believe is not being done with the necessary speed if it is being done at all at present. It is unsatisfactory to have reports for small sectors coming through Indian file', one after another, when what we really want to do is to look at the larger sector because so often one particular small sector of industry relates to another sector. 
It is intriguing that we are providing a bounty for the manufacture of products which are not at the moment being manufactured in this country, and I do not oppose this in any way. I have suggested that maybe in this country we should specialise in the manufacture of tractors. However, I repeat the Opposition's attitude that there is no medium and long term economic planning in this country to which we can make any reference. We have only short term ad hoc planning going from one year to another. We believe that we ought to emulate what is being done in most other countries and build up the mechanisms to enable us to engage in medium and long term planning- the setting of targets. We could do this through an economic council made up of representatives from business, the trade unions and the national and State governments. In this way we could start to determine on what areas we should be concentrating. Intuitively we feel that tractors manufacture may be one of these areas. 
However, we do not really know because we have not had such medium and long term planning carried out in this country. Such a concept is not revolutionary. Japan, for instance, which hardly could be called a socialist society, has had its economic planning agency for years. The French, who do not have what could be called a socialist government, have a planning mechanism. We should have such a mechanism in Australia. We should have a mechanism under which medium and long term planning is worked out on a consensus basis with input from the private sector as well as the public sector and from the State governments as well as the national government. Until we have that sort of planning we cannot say with certainty that the manufacture of tractors is one of the areas in which we should put our resources. We have to work on intuition; we have to work by the seat of our pants. In the meantime the Opposition comes to the conclusion that perhaps the manufacture of tractors is one of these areas. Certainly we have to go along with supporting a bounty measure like this which will give some employment, and give it in a way that will not add to costs. There is, of course, the possibility that the tractor industry will grow into a large industry in this country. I hope so. I would have liked this decision to have been made in the context of a proper planning mechanism. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the Opposition does not oppose either of these two bounty Bills. In fact it welcomes this form of assistance to the manufacturing industry of this country. 

 -Mr Speaker, Scrooge, that mean Dickens' character who set out to make life an unnecessary misery, lives again, only he has multiplied. The daddy of all latter-day Scrooges is the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  and the children are those members of the Liberal and National Country parties- most of them but not all of them- who support the wasteful and unnecessary stagnation policies which hit and hurt so severely thousands upon thousands of average Australians. This is nothing new for conservatives. They ruled us in the 1930s too when similar policies were pursued. These things have been happening for  2y.  years now in the 1970s. From the time they took over they started slashing government spending. Their policies have not worked. Concentrating alone on policies aimed at bringing down inflation and interest rates- laudable objectives in themselves- will not bring prosperity. We have only to remember the 1930s. Real wages were brought down then too. Inflation was low. Interest rates were minimal. But was there prosperity? Of course there was not. There was stagnation until the parsimonious policies of the Premiers ' Plan were changed. 
The tragedy is that these depression policies are so wasteful and unnecessary. Unfortunately we have not learned from past mistakes. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  put the alternative to the nation last night. We can only hope that it will be heeded. What is happening under the Liberals and their country cousins is not only wasteful and unnecessary, it is also unjust and unfair and is leading to growing inequalities in our community. We are now not the 'Lucky Country'; under the Liberals we are the unfair society. The burdens are being placed on ordinary average Australians, not the 'haves' who might be able to afford to take the cuts but those who have less, who cannot afford to take those cuts. No wonder many people are very angry. No wonder our society is becoming increasingly divided. No wonder the cry is going up: 'Let the rich pay'. It is those responsible for our national Government who are causing the divisiveness and the violence. 
I shall list in general terms some of the unfair measures that have caused this situation. Firstly the Government is deliberately setting out to create increased unemployment. This is the strategy. It is putting the lid on the economy in order to influence wage and salary earners in their claims- and the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission also. That is the heart of the antiinflation policy. But who does it hurt most? Those who are in the most vulnerable position, those on lower incomes. How have the unemployment figures grown? Let us remind ourselves. In March 1976, a time when Labor Party policies were still applying and when there was a grave international economic crisis, the unemployment figure was 278,000. In March 1978, after two years of Liberal Government, the figure had increased by 132,000 to 410,000. We have to compare the same months because now we are not given unemployment figures in seasonally adjusted terms. The injustice of unemployment falls on those who are most vulnerable, those in this society who have less. This is just one illustration of how the policies of the Liberals are creating this divisive, inequitable society in Australia. 
The second example relates to the tax cutsthose promised in the last Budget and which were such a feature of the last election campaign in December 1977. Those cuts dated from 1 February 1978. The benefit of those tax cuts, in the greatest possible measure, went to the haves', thus increasing the inequalities in our community. This is not only tragic socially but it is also bad economically. To dwell on the economics of it, those who have more tend to save more. Giving more to them means less spending. If one gave money on social grounds to those who have less it would make so much more sense economically as well because they would tend to spend what they receive. It is that sort of spending that we require in order to get the economy going. Just look at one statistic associated with the tax cuts, those blatant promises which now have been cast aside as a result of the most recent policy decisions taken. Forty-three per cent of the total benefit of those 1 February tax cuts went to people in the top 10 per cent of income earners in Australia. In other words, the other 90 per cent of people consequently were worse ofT relatively than the top 10 per cent because of a positive decision taken by the Government in making those tax changes available for the most part to the most wealthy. 
The third illustration I give of the more unequal society that is being created relates to the increased taxes which are now the subject of policy and debate elsewhere in this building. In discussing this matter of public importance I am not debating the Budget itself, but I must refer to policy decisions taken by the Government as part of a series to illustrate the point I am making. The tax surcharge of 1  Vic  in the dollar will increase the tax burden by 5 per cent in a full year. But as the increased tax will be collected in eight months from 1 November, there will be an 8 per cent increase in weekly tax deductions for those on lower incomes whereas those in higher taxation scales, the middle income people, will have an increase of taxation payments of 3 per cent for the full year or 6 per cent in their weekly payments for eight months. For those in the highest salary range the surcharge will mean a tax increase of 2.5 per cent in a full year or 5 per cent in the eight months. I am hoping to persuade the House that this is another example of inequity, another example of Government policies which are giving more to those who have and less to those who have not. The surcharge will be a greater burden per cent on those with lower incomes than it will for those on higher incomes. 
The same sort of thing applies, in this series of policies, to the decision to tax annual leave and long service leave accumulations. The Asprey Committee made a recommendation to government relating to phasing in the taxation liability of people on higher incomes who receive superannuation payments. This recommendation was cast aside. But now, people on lower incomes who accumulate a small capital saving for their retirement, by means of accumulating their annual leave or long service leave entitlements, will find those sums are fully taxed. We remember the policy decision that provided that as from the date of the Budget no longer will only 5 per cent of the total be taxed but the total sum accrued will be included in taxable income. This is another example of helping the 'haves' at the expense of the 'have nots'. 
The fourth example I wish to give the House relates to the reduction of community services. This started from the day the Liberals took over. They started to slash government spending. Who benefited most from Medibank, more education, child care centres and better public hospitals? It was those who have less. The provision of these services in a welfare state through public spending is motivated by a desire to reduce inequalities in our community. Those on lower incomes benefit. A characteristic of this Government is its slashing of government spending in order to reduce these community services. This is another example of how greater inequalities result from the sorts of policies which are being pursued by the Fraser Government. 
I wish to dwell on Medibank for a while. We will find more and more that the healthy, the strong and the financially able will not take up private health fund subscriptions. They will not become members of private funds; they will be covering their own health costs. We will find more and more that those who join the private funds will be the sick and those who are less financially able to withstand the burden of large health costs. So we will find the subscriptions to health funds increasing and becoming a greater burden on those who are least able to afford to pay. Furthermore, we must bear in mind that those who have higher incomes will have higher taxation deductions and will derive a greater benefit than those who are least able to afford to pay because their marginal medical expenses over the 40 per cent covered by the Government will be tax rebatable. It will mean that the net cost to them of such medical expenses will be less than the cost for those on lower incomes. That is another example of the inequity of this Government's policies. I must also mention under this heading the lowering of the expenditure on the provision of sewerage services for Australians living in cities and country towns, the lowering of expenditure in the area of urban and regional development, the termination of the Australian Assistance Plan, and the fact that less funds are available for housing, public transport and roads. They are all examples of this Government's policies creating greater burdens for those who have less than for those who are on higher incomes because it is public expenditure of this sort which is of greater value to those who have less. 
The fifth example is the failure of this Government to collect revenue from, for instance, an excess profits tax on companies or what we call a rent resource tax. This was promised in the last Budget but, to use a common expression, the Government parties have gone to water. They have now decided not to go ahead with such a rent resource tax. Who will benefit from this decision? It will be companies like the Utah Corporation, which made a profit of $9 1 m in the half year to 30 June. That is a scandalous amount in view of the great needs that exist in this community. Some of that $91m should be syphoned off in an excess profits tax in order to make available funds to provide services for the ordinary, average Australians who need so much more but who are having benefits taken from them by this Government. 
Another area of taxation which has been neglected by the Government and which is worth mentioning in this context was raised last night by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  Australia is about the last country of its type in the world to have a capital gains tax which is worthy of that name. Many people in our community are accumulating wealth which is not taxed by any means whatsoever. If we in this Parliament care about equity and care about ensuring that the lesser privileged people in our community are to be looked after we should be far more resolute about ensuring that there is a proper capital gains tax. 
Time does not permit me to mention in detail in this debate the loss of benefits by ordinary Australians. I refer to the Government's failure to index family allowances, the removal of the tax deduction claim in respect of home mortgage interest payments and the indexation of pensions only once a year instead of twice a year. All these items come under the heading of burdening those who have less. There is also, of course, the increases in the regressive indirect taxes, such as the charges on beer, cigarettes and petrol. All of these increased charges are a far greater burden on those who have less. Lastly, I would like to mention the lack of Government action to tackle the severe problem of technological change in our community. It is those who are most vulnerable who tend to lose their jobs because of mechanisation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I rise on behalf of Opposition members to record our objections to this taking place. We will not take the matter to a vote. General Business on Thursdays is one of the few occasions on which a private member can bring forward something that has been resting on the Notice Paper for a considerable time. We are now near the end of August. For the whole of this year we have managed to get only three General Business Thursdays behind us. I believe that my objection should be not only on behalf of the Opposition but also on behalf of back bench Government members, who have very few opportunities to display their own ingenuity, innovativeness and ability to bring forward matters in the chamber. Some matters have been resting on the Notice Paper for months. We should not take time away from back bench Government members and Opposition members, even if it involves only one General Business Thursday. It is high time that we gave them more opportunity to bring forward ideas. They can do so from the background of being close to the people. The matters brought to this House by the Executive come mainly from the Public Service which is governing this country. 
I remind the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  and all honourable members that all wisdom does not reside in the Executive. There are very few chances, but much wisdom could come forward from other quarters if the opportunity were given. I say to the Leader of the House that this year he ought to take the opportunity to write his way into the history books of this country and into the affection of all democrats by doing something about parliamentary reform and giving back bench members, the private members, more opportunity to bring matters before this House. One of the things we could consider is the means by which back bench members of the British House of Commons bring legislation before the Parliament on a Friday. The Leader of the House in his other capacity as Minister for Primary Industry may not be too popular with the farmers at the moment but at least he could be popular with the democrats in this country if he got on with the job of ensuring parliamentary reform. 
I will not detain the House any further other than to say that the Labor Party has taken a decision to do something about parliamentary reform. That will be announced in greater detail in due course. I hope that what is done will be done in a bipartisan way. It is necessary for all of us to do something to bring this institution screaming into the twentieth century rather than let it carry on wasting time, which happens to such a large extent now. I repeat that I record our objections to one General Business Thursday- it probably will be two- being taken from us. It would have been better if the Leader of the House had taken this opportunity to inform us that more time would be given for the private member to bring forward in this place some ideas from the people. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I open the debate on the Loan Bill 1978 by moving an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill in these terms: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that the Bill is inadequate because it makes no provision for the under-estimating of the deficit which is likely to follow from the understating of unemployment benefit and health payments, over-estimating of receipts from personal income tax and customs duty, and other inadequacies in the Budget forecasts '. 
This Bill gives the House an opportunity to study the fiddles with figures that have taken place in this Budget. Those fiddles are rivalled only by what happened in the last Budget. We are all aware that over the last couple of years there has been an amount of window dressing in regard to the deficit. This has happened because the Liberal and National Country parties have taken it unto themselves during the last three years to seek to persuade the Australian people- I must say with some degree of success- that there is something inherently wrong in having a deficit. We all agree that there is something inherently wrong in having a limitless deficit but it is completely misleading to suggest that there is something wrong in having a deficit of modest size at a time of raging unemployment, such as we have in this country at present. 
One of the factors that make it very difficult to allow the deficit to reach a size that it should reach in order to stimulate economic activity and reduce unemployment is what is known as businessmen's expectations'. Businessmen have a habit of looking at the size of the deficit. The reason why they are so misinformed on this subject is that they have been fed wrong information by our political opponents, members of the Liberal and National Country parties. I am glad that the new Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  made this point himself a few months ago. I am sorry that he did not carry through the courage of his convictions and see to it that there was a more appropriate deficit for the 1978-79 financial year in order to get the country moving and the level of unemployment reduced. 
The Opposition has moved this amendment to highlight the misinformation in the community on the deficit, to highlight the fact that the figures relating to the deficit in the last Budget have been fiddled with and to highlight how the same thing is happening on this occasion. Before I get into the details of that, let me remind the House that the purpose of this Bill is to provide legislative authority for the Treasurer to borrow up to $2,000m during 1978-79 to meet the anticipated deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund and to apply the borrowed funds to defence purposes. This measure forms an important element in the borrowing authority needed to finance the estimated overall Budget deficit for this financial year. 
Therefore, this Bill authorises borrowing for defence purposes so that expenditure on defence which otherwise would be met from the CRF may instead be met from the Loan Fund. The Bill transfers expenditure from the CRF to the Loan Fund. Because payments from the CRF cannot exceed moneys available to it, this is the normal method of supplementing the CRF from the Loan Fund. I use the term 'normal method'. In years gone by no opposition was offerred to this transfer, until the present Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch),  then the shadow Treasurer, used the debate on the Loan Bill in 1975 to mislead the public about this matter. Defence expenditure is used simply because that avoids the necessity to go to the Loan Council. That is the machinery element of this Bill. 
The effect of the Bill, as I said earlier, is to transfer up to $2,000m of the 1978-79 expenditure from a fund that is short of cash, namely the CRF, to another fund that is not so short, namely the Loan Fund. But it does not authorise any expenditure on its own. It does not involve a change in monetary policy or in debt management policy. I repeat: It is a machinery measure for legal and accounting reasons. We have always accepted this attitude. However, we object to and reject the attitude adopted by our political opponents when we were in government. 
-The particular defence expenditure which is at the moment in the CFR could be revenue expenditure. Some of it no doubt is of a capital nature which the honourable member, as an accountant, would know would fit the bill for the ammunition and weapons that are purchased particularly from overseas. Indeed it is not just the capital type element that is transferred in this measure. The incorporation of the limit of $2,000m is aimed at creating an impression of responsibility, but the Bill is no more or no less open ended than any of its predecessors in this matter. 
With regard to this year's projected deficit- I say 'projected' advisedly, for there is no reason to assume that this year's estimate will be any more accurate than last year's estimate; I remind the House that last year's deficit was 50 per cent greater than the estimate- the Treasurer has left a lot of questions unanswered. Indeed, the estimates used in arriving at the present deficit raise more questions than they answer. They are decidedly suspect because they contain omissions and manipulations aimed at presenting the Government as having 'fiscal responsibility' when, in fact, the deficit for this financial year will be substantially greater than the $2,800m forecast. I say this for a number of reasons. The contractionary effect of the overall Budget strategy, the underestimation of various outlays, including unemployment benefits and Medibank payments, and the overestimation of various receipts, including gross pay-as-you-earn receipts and import customs duties, all foreshadow a blowout in this year's deficit. 
I now turn to explaining each of those points in detail. I want the major reasons for concern to be known. I repeat an adjective used by the previous Treasurer, the present Minister for Industry and Commerce, in relation to figures used in estimating last year's deficit. I believe that it applies to the figures which have resulted in this year's deficit. I see from the pleasant look on your face,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you are anticipating that I am about to remind you of the word 'rubbery'. You are quite right. That is an apt adjective which can be applied to many of the figures, as I will show you. 
Let me go through the various headings under which I hope I will persuade the House that what I am saying is correct. I refer to the general effect of the contractionary strategy, the underestimation of outlays on unemployment benefits payments, the underestimation of outlays on Medibank payments, the overestimation of receipts from gross PA YE payments, the overestimation of receipts from import customs duty, and the effect of changes to the Budget, the first of which has been notified already. It was indicated to us at Question Time yesterday that no longer will pocket money of news boys- the income they earn from selling papers- affect the amount of family allowance received by their mothers. I refer lastly to the transfers from public sector borrowing to private sector borrowing of certain public utilities. One that comes to mind this year is the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority. I recall a more famous case of a couple of years ago. In order to window dress the deficit on that occasion, Telecom was transferred from being a public sector borrower to being a private sector borrower. 
Let us talk about the general effect of the contractionary Budget strategy upon the size of the deficit. The Government has locked itself into a vicious spiral. The Budget strategy has locked the entire nation into a crippling pattern of ever more severe contraction. I am not referring just to the fact that the outlays in this Budget have increased by 7.7 per cent, whereas the receipts from the community add up to an 1 1 per cent increase. There is a difference there of 3.3 per cent. I am referring also to the question of where particular funds are being spent and from where they are being collected. At least the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  will know that some areas of expenditure achieve a far greater multiplier effect and have a far better result in stimulating our economy and creating jobs than do others. 
I mentioned earlier, in response to an interjection by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  that part of the defence expenditure relates to the purchasing of weapons overseas. Of course that has very little multiplier effect in this country. It does not create many jobs. I can think of only the clerks on the wharves and in the Army who tick off the receipt of these weapons. Expenditure of a similar amount, made for instance in the building and construction industry, has a high multiplier effect. 
I am grateful to the honourable member for telling me how about another two people might be employed in the community. I am sure he will agree that that hardly has a high multiplier effect. He would know that similar expenditure in the building and construction industry would have a far greater multiplier effect and a far more expansionary element to it than that which applies at present. 
No one will need to be Einstein to understand the point that I am making. The expenditure in this Budget relates basically and relatively to areas which have very little multiplier effect. The areas which would have a great multiplier effect are among the greatest victims in the Budget. Of course I am referring to the housing industry and the building and construction industry as good examples. We do not need to consider only the contractionary effect of collecting 11 per cent more from the community and spending only 7.7 per cent more in the community. We also must consider the question of where the money is being spent. 
In addition, one must consider from where the money is being collected. People who listened to a debate that took place earlier this afternoon would understand the point being made, that basically the increased surcharge on taxation is coming from those who have less, and they are greater spenders than those who have more. So there would be a far greater effect on stimulating the economy if the increased tax imposts were on more wealthy people and did not reduce the spending power of those on lower incomes. The Budget provides that most of the imposts will bc on those who have lower incomes, and that will have a contractionary effect as well. The Opposition believes that even with great optimism there is no way that one could look upon this Budget as being stimulatory. 
Also, we believe that there is no way in the world that the estimates of outlays and receipts will arrive at a 4 per cent rate of non-farm growth in the current financial year. That is the figure that is being projected by the Government. It projected the same figure of 4 per cent in the previous financial year and achieved only 2.2 per cent, and most of that was due to productivity and not job creation. Similarly, this year the Government is projecting a growth of 4 per cent, but according to every responsible analysis of the Budget there is no way that that figure would be reached. So that is another factor which shows that it is a contractionary Budget. That will have an enormous effect on the amount that will be collected in receipts as projected and will have an enormous effect on the deficit which is the subject of this debate. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  believes, as he said last night in the major reply to the Budget, that even with great optimism the best estimate for growth this year would be 3 per cent. The Budget estimate is offered in the face of a virtual freeze on government spending in real terms. This can mean only that the Government expects the private sector, representing 75 per cent of the total economy, to provide all the expected growth. In other words, it must grow by about 6 per cent in order to achieve the 4 per cent growth. Last year, real non-farm growth was about 1.8 per cent. Government spending contributed about half of that figure, growing by 3.8 per cent. The private sector grew by about 1 . 1 per cent to contribute its half to the total. Under this Budget it is impossible to see how the private sector can increase its growth rate from 1.1 per cent to 6 per cent. For these reasons a blow-out in the deficit is, in our view, inevitable. The need for increased government spending will become greater at the same time as revenue falls away because of continued recession in the economy. 
I turn now to unemployment benefit payments. The Opposition believes that these will be far greater than those projected in the Budget. I remind the House that on the day after the Budget the Treasurer, in his speech to the National Press Club, anticipated a monthly average of 290,000 persons unemployed during the current financial year as against the average of 265,000 recipients of unemployment benefit during the last year. Even if we accept the Treasurer's assumptions about the numbers of unemployed, there appear to be errors in the Budget estimates of the amount of unemployment benefit payable. Last year the Budget allocation for unemployment benefit was $70 5 m whereas the actual spending was way above this, at $794m. The Government has assumed an increase in the number of recipients of 10 per cent in that extra $25,000, with an inflation adjustment for those with dependants. That should have produced an allocation for the current year of more like $870m, on very conservative assumptions. Instead we find a figure of only $785m included in this Budget, which means that there is an estimate of $85m below reasonable expectations and $10m below last year's actual outcome. This cannot be sustained and it is another reason why we believe that the deficit will be far greater than anticipated. 
Overall the estimated cost involved in the alterations to the health insurance system is estimated to be $62 lm. That is $305m in added Budget outlays and a reduction of $3 16m in receipts because of the abolition of the health insurance levy. There are several reasons why the Government could be expected to have to pay more than the $62 lm extra it has estimated. There is a distinct possibility that many doctors will adopt a broad definition of a 'low income and socially disadvantaged person', for whom they can bulk bill. Honourable members will remember that for people coming into that category doctors can bulk bill and get 75 per cent of the agreed fee whereas for the rest of us who do not come into that category they get 40 per cent. To a large extent the definition will depend on whether doctors are prepared to accept the 75 per cent bulk billing for their patients instead of collecting 40 per cent from the Government and hoping that they will get the remaining 60 per cent from the patient. 
The basis on which the Government has calculated the cost of bulk billing for low income and socially disadvantaged people is unsure. No doubt it was just an optimistic figure grabbed out of the air. That is how it seems to us. It is also possible that the Government may have underestimated the number of people who choose to gamble and not to carry any form of health insurance and who opt for the universal scheme under which the Government has undertaken to pay 40 per cent of the schedule fee with the patient paying the maximum of $20. Even the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has acknowledged this possibility. Hence there is considerable potential for a blow-out in the area of health expenditure and thus a blow-out of the deficit as it has been given to us. 
I turn now to gross pay-as-you-earn tax receipts. The Government has based its estimate of gross PA YE receipts upon the assumption that average weekly earnings will increase by 7.5 per cent during 1978-79. There are good reasons to believe that this rate of growth in earnings overestimates the likely result. In fact a figure closer to a 5.5 per cent increase may be more realistic. Let me explain why I say that. Forecast inflation for this financial year is in the range of 5 per cent to 6 per cent, as the Treasurer has mentioned. Wages are assumed to be indexed by 75 per cent of that indexation figure but this must be related to the rate in the March quarter since this will influence wages in the May-June period. The rate of growth in prices in the year to March would be about 6 per cent, according to Government estimates, which would result in a 4.5 per cent growth of wage rates for the year. However, average earnings may increase somewhat faster than wages due to some increase in overtime. This could be partly offset by the fact that overaward payments generally are not indexed. A generous estimate would be that average weekly earnings might increase at a rate one per cent faster than wages. That is how we arrive at that figure of 5.5 per cent against the 7.5 per cent projected. 
Given that the tax multiplier means that the effect upon tax revenue of a one per cent change in income is about a 1 .4 per cent change in tax receipts, the gross PA YE receipts are likely to be 2.8 per cent below those estimates, which is about $320m less than those in the Budget. Other difficulties in these estimates are also evident elsewhere in the Budget Papers. Budget Paper No. 4 shows that average Public Service salaries and allowances are expected to increase by 3.85 per cent during the current financial year. This is only half the rate at which the Government expects average weekly earnings in the community generally to grow. By making such an assumption the Government has been able to under-estimate Budget outlays by as much as $ 100m in relation to Public Service salaries. Last year the Government assumed an increase in Public Service salaries and allowances of 5.6 per cent and in average weekly earnings of 10.5 per cent. In fact these figures turned out to be 8.8 per cent and 9.8 per cent respectively. The only way in which the Treasurer could justify an estimated 3.85 per cent increase in Public Service earnings would be if there was to be less than 50 per cent wage indexation during 1978-79. But if this were to be achieved, the assumptions for average weekly earnings would be much too high and the Government would be facing a short-fall of more than $170m in gross PA YE collections. So whichever way we look at the matter under this heading of gross PA YE receipts, it must indicate a short-fall and thus an addition to the deficit. 
The next heading, which I mentioned earlier, was import customs duty. Customs duties are estimated to increase by 29 per cent during the current financial year. Increased duties of 12V4 per cent on goods subject to quotas amount to $65m. Increased customs duties corresponding to increased excise is estimated to yield in relation to spirits, about $66m; in relation to beer, $23m; and in relation to tobacco products, $2m. Excluding these items, the increase in customs duty is 15.4 per cent. A large part of this figure is accounted for by rising import prices. Let us use a figure of 7 per cent as an average OECD figure for inflation, 2.4 per cent in real growth in the Australian economy, some restocking and perhaps some increase in the ratio of dutiable goods to total imports due to the present Government's protection policies as well as changes in tastes. If those assumptions are reasonable we have to point out that a further sliding devaluation would reduce import duties proportionately, as happened last year. Since deterioration in the balance of payments is expected, further devaluation would result so that estimates of receipts from customs duties on imports are probably highly excessive. 
The next heading I mention is family allowances. As we all know, the new provisions relating to the means test on children were to date from 1 January 1979. For the six month period the Government hoped to save about $90m by reducing the family allowance payable to parents of children with a separate income above $312 per annum. Since the Budget announcement various Ministers have announced that this means test would apply only to parents of those children who are involved in trust splitting. To the extent that the $90m saving was based upon 4.3 million children receiving separate incomes greater than $3 12 per annum and generously estimating that there might be only about 500,000 children involved in trust splitting, the actual savings might be closer to $10m than to the $90m which has been forecast. So we have an over-estimate by about $80m of the saving associated with means testing family allowances. I would like before leaving this subject of family allowances to draw attention to the fact that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and other Government spokesmen have said that they did not want this means testing of children's income to affect people whom they did not have in mind when they drew it up. Some hoodwinking of the public is taking place in this area. There is no doubt that originally the Government intended personal exertion income of newsboys to be included, otherwise we would not have had an estimate of a $90m saving, as we have had. 
The other and last point that I would like to mention is the window-dressing of the estimate by pushing some more borrowing into the private sector from the public sector. A Bill will be going through this Parliament- it has already been introduced by the relevant Ministerrelating to the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Authority. I repeat my charge that it is a mere window-dressing. It will impose an extra impost on the consumers of Canberra. They would be able through their Authority to borrow funds far more cheaply through the public sector than by being forced to go separately to the market. I point out to the House that it is a pity that the Government has painted itself into corners in relation to the Budget deficit, wanting to reduce it all the time and leaving the costs to people such as the consumers of electricity in the city of Canberra. 
In conclusion, we of the Opposition realise that Budget deficits cannot be limitless. But on the other hand we reject the importance that has been given it by those at present in Government. The faith in a shrinking deficit is totally misplaced. I draw attention to the fact that our Budget deficit as a percentage of gross national product is less than the equivalent percentage of Budget deficit to gross national product in those countries, such as West Germany and Japan, which are successfully operating economies. There is no relationship between high deficits and high rates of inflation. I repeat that although our deficit cannot be limitless, we have to bear in mind the need for the public sector borrowing requirement. It is a pity that the Government has put itself in such a corner. Those are the reasons why I, on behalf of the Opposition, moved the amendment. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Is it a fact that industry's understandable drive for increasing international competitiveness is being achieved by replacing people with machines and thus lengthening the dole queues? If the Government persists in using the investment allowance rather than other means, such as expanding the economy in order to achieve international competitiveness, when will it convert the allowance to one applicable only to that machinery which is substantially Australian made in order to substitute new employment for that which is being lost? Why was not the change made in the recent Budget? 
-The Opposition agrees to this course, as the Leader of the House has suggested. With your indulgence,  Mr Chairman,  I would like to take the opportunity of extending a 'happy birthday' to the  Deputy 
Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  on his coming of age. I hope that now he is of age it will mean a change in his attitudes and ways. 
Schedule 2. 
Parliament 
Proposed expenditure, $ 15,549,000 
Progress reported. 
-To the motion moved by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  four weeks and two days ago, namely, 'That the Bill be now read a second time', on behalf of the Australian Labor Opposition, I move the following amendment: 
That all the words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: this House condemns the Budget as disastrous, dishonest, inequitable and inhumane in that it: 
will intensify and prolong the already severe economic depression; 
will increase unemployment, official and disguised, by at least 80,000; 
represents an abdication by Government of its responsibility to attempt to restore full employment; 
further depresses the business sector, particularly the small business sector; 
indicates the Government's total disregard of the social destructiveness and economic wastefulness of unemployment; 
hinders the fight against inflation by adding significantly to the overall level of prices through substantial increases in indirect taxes; (vh) blatantly redistributes income from those in need to the most privileged sections of society; 
will increase the degree of economic hardship for the poorest and most disadvantaged groups in our community; 
indicates the Government's cynical disregard for honesty and integrity by reneging on important promises, and 
considerably understates the true extent of the Budget deficit'. 
The key words describing this Fraser Government's third Budget, as indicated in this amendment which I have just moved, are disastrous, dishonest, inequitable and inhumane. There has been mounting evidence in the intervening four weeks and two days since the Treasurer made his Budget Speech to justify the use of these four words and indeed to justify each of the 10 clauses of the Opposition's amendment. This Budget is disastrous mainly because it is contractionary at a time when Australia's economy cries out for expansion and moderate and carefully controlled stimulus. Need I say more than to remind the House that outlays, government expenditures, are planned to increase by only 7.7 per cent at a time when receipts, that amount which is being taken by the Government from the community, are planned to increase by 1 1 per cent. That net loss to the community of 3.3 per cent is not the only evidence of contraction; it is also important to note the nature of the areas where government funds are being spent and from where they are being collected. 
There would be more of an employment creating effect if $ 10m was spent in the area of the Minister at the table, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  who is responsible for the building and construction industry, than if that same $10m was spent to buy another piece of defence equipment from overseas. Of course there is more of an unemployment creating effect, less of an employment creating effect, if taxation is squeezed from those people on lower incomes who spend what they have, rather than from people on higher incomes, who have more of an inclination to save what they have. Taxes from middle and lower income earners come out of their spending. Taxes from higher income earners of course tend to come from what they save. One does not have to be an Einstein to know that the nature of expenditure in this Budget is such that, for instance, the building and construction industry is starved of stimulus, is starved of government expenditure, or that the burden of taxation falls most heavily on the have-nots of this nation rather than on the haves. 
In other words, the quality of the receipts and payments in this Budget, as well as the quantity, add up to the Budget being contractionary. We of the Labor Opposition do not use this word contractionary' simply in order to be able to claim another headline. We use that word because it denotes the fact that the Budget will increase unemployment. Contraction of this sort leads to vastly increased unemployment; it adds to the present disastrous level. With hidden unemployment, we know that disastrous level now is at least 500,000 Australian residents. If they are not all in dole queues they are at home, recognising that they are unable to get a job and therefore, because other incomes are coming into their households, they are finding it just useless to register for a job. We now have a Budget which is adding to that real figure of 500,000 existing unemployed. In other words disaster is being compounded on existing disaster. Let the House and let the people of this nation not just take the word of a member of the Opposition on this subject. Let me read from a document from the Australian Industries Development Association, the heart of big business in this community, which reached me yesterday. With regard to the Budget it states: 
Vehicle producers aside, it is difficult to find any sector of Australian industry that could be said clearly to benefitimmediately from the 1978-79 Federal Budget. Sales and cash flow will be cut back in some sectors most directly affected by the increases in excise; reductions in consumer disposable income will cut into the sales of many industrial groups; money will remain tight and interest rates high; direct industry assistance through the Budget will be less; and the overall effect of the Budget on activity levels and employment is demonstrably contractionary, at least initially. 
I accept that the article states 'immediately' and at least initially', but surely at a time when 500,000 people are unemployed we have to devise economic policies which are not only of lasting benefit but also of immediate benefit. I will demonstrate to the House that the alternative Budget strategy which was outlined by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  does just that. It ensures that there is lasting benefit for a healing economy and an increased level of activity as well as immediate benefits. 
-The Budget is dishonest. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member for Denison is not occupying his proper place in the House.  His  interjections, therefore, are more out of order than ordinarily would be the case. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I hope that I will not incur your wrath if I say that I welcome the inane interjections. Whether I take them up will be a matter to be decided as I continue my speech. I have already explained how this Budget is contractionarily leading to increased unemployment. I have also described the Budget as dishonest, and in a few brief words before I get on to the main part of my speech I want to explain why I call it a dishonest Budget. 
It is dishonest because, among other things, it makes false claims about the rate of growth of the gross domestic product of this country during the 1978-79 financial year, which is the period covered by this Budget. The Budget also understates considerably the true extent of the deficit. 
There are many other reasons why the Budget is dishonest. One can turn to the statements containing the promises made to this nation by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and other Ministers of this Government. For instance, I refer to the statement that they would not meddle with Medibank. This dishonest Budget has completely upturned these statements. Enormous promises were made about taxation prior to the last election less than a year ago, which tended to persuade the Australian community to vote for the Liberal and National Country parties. They said that they would reduce taxation. We all know now what the effect of their promises have been- namely, increased taxation not reduced taxation. 
As I have stated, the Budget is also inequitable and inhumane because, as I will illustrate during the course of my speech, it forces the middle and lower income earners to bear unnecessarily the burdens of this wasteful economic policy which the Government is perpetrating on the Australian community. It is not a fair Budget. There is no equity in it. There is no justice in it. I will illustrate as my colleagues who have spoken in this debate have already done, how the burdens fall on pensioners and families, particularly families with young children who are the recipients of the family allowance which was substituted a couple of years ago for tax rebates based on the number of children in a family. Other rebates have been indexed to take into account inflation. But the family allowance has in no way been indexed. That is just another example of the way in which this Budget is inequitable and inhumane. 
The Government's strategy, of course, is to put the lid on the economy. Its strategy is to keep economic activity at a low rate and to increase the level of unemployment. The Government is wilfully creating increased unemployment because it wants to frighten the work force of this country to take a real reduction in wages and the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to accept its strategy for a reduction in wages. The Government has foisted this strategy on the Australian people because it asserts that this is the only way to bring down the rate of inflation. 
The Opposition believes- this has been pointed out in the past- that this strategy will mean not only a direct increase in unemployment because of less employment in the public sector but also a lack of confidence in the community and a lack of the necessary desire to spend on the part of Australians which would bring this country back to economic health. The Government's strategy is also one of desiring, through a decrease in the rate of inflation, overseas investment in this country. The Government believes that if it depresses the economy, puts a weight on the economy, puts a lid on the economy, it will lead, as I have said, to a reduction in the inflation rate and therefore more overseas investment. We reject that strategy. We believe that it is wrong. 
I want to explain why the Opposition rejects the Government's strategy and why it asserts so clearly that that strategy is wrong. The Government's strategy will create many costs to the community, such as the costs of the enormous increase in unemployment measured in terms of the broken lives of the unemployed, particularly the young unemployed. That problem was outlined by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  the shadow Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, when he spoke during an urgency debate a couple of days ago. Not only does this strategy create this wasted generation but also it leads to a desire by people to save rather than to spend. We assert that it is not a reduction in the inflation rate which will lead to confidence and to people spending, but a reduction in the level of unemployment. We believe clearly from all the evidence that because of the insecurity created by increased unemployment in our community, people are timid at the present time. There is a feeling of insecurity and a feeling that this is the time not to spend but to save. While we have this attitude in the community we shall not have a return to economic health. We shall not have that confidence which will result in an increase in productivity or an increase in spending. We will not have an increase in confidence which will bring our economy back to economic health. 
Every statistic which has come from the Australian Bureau of Statistics in the last four weeks and two days since the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  made his Budget Speech confirms the assertions that the Opposition has made and the beliefs that it holds. I would like to quote from the editorial of the  Australian Financial Review  of 13 September. The editorial, referring to the statistics that relate to retail sales and also to the rate of saving in this community, stated: 
The June quarter statistics of retail sales, together with the evidence provided on the behaviour of the household savings ratio in the National Income figures published last week, are not a good augury for the success of the Government's economic policy with respect to output growth in the current financial year. 
That editorial ought to be read by every member of this Parliament so that he can be persuaded that the strategy which we now have in this country- the strategy we have had from the Liberal and National Country parties and the Fraser Government over the last  2ft  years- is the wrong strategy. I repeat that information which has come before the Parliament and the people in respect of the Budget strategy confirms the view that we hold. This information makes us more resolute in our attitude that it is the wrong strategy. The inflation rate can be brought down without this attitude of salvation only through stagnation. We do not need this contractionary policy, this putting the lid on the economy of this country so as to reduce the rate of inflation. The Opposition shares the desire to reduce the rate of inflation but believes that there is another way to obtain that result without the great cost that is being inflicted on the community through the present methods of the Fraser Government. We believe, for instance, that a modest expansionary policy at this time would lower unit costs and take up some of the slack, for instance, in the manufacturing industry which at the most is operating at about 65 per cent capacity. We believe that proper and worthwhile spending in the public sector would bring about improved productivity in that sector and reduce the social costs which at the moment are very high in relation to each unit of production. 
Of course it is important that we have public expenditure on roads, railways, wharves and many other areas of this country. Without taking into consideration the social factors and the improvement in the quality of life of Australian people, we need that expenditure in order to reduce the social costs of this nation, in order to increase productivity, in order to bring down the rate of inflation and the unit costs which are so much a part of our rate of inflation. We assert also that the Government's strategy is wrong because overseas investors will not be as impressed by the rate of inflation as they are by the fact that there are markets for their goods. As an important middle income country- a country which is in the middle range in terms of gross national product- we ought to be playing our part to ensure a return to health in the world economy. It is important that we should stimulate our economy by persuading others in the world, particularly those nations which are the motors of the world economy, such as Japan, the United States and West Germany, to play their part in stimulating world demand. It is that world demand which itself will lead to markets for the products of this country. That is what overseas investors want more than anything else. They do not want to be looking merely at a reduction of the rate of inflation in this country. I repeat: Inflation is an evil. The Opposition recognises it as an evil but we believe that we can reduce that rate of inflation, as, indeed, it was being reduced in early 1976, because of Labor's policies in the 1975 Budget. We believe it can be reduced by policies other than this policy based on the principle of salvation through stagnation. 
As I mentioned earlier, our alternative strategy involves the macro-economic area as outlined by the Leader of the Opposition. I remind the House that we are not devoting attention only to the macro-economic area but also to the microeconomic area of industry policies where we believe this Government is not making sufficient effort and is not instituting sufficiently innovative policies in order to overcome what is not only a cyclical difficulty in the economy but also a structural difficulty. We must recognise, as the Leader of the Opposition has said, that our grave rate of unemployment is due not only to cyclical difficulties in the world economy and wrong macroeconomic policies in this country but also to the structural changes that are being brought about by technological developments in this country. Our policies, as we are developing them, deal not only with the macro-economic area but with the micro-economic area as well. 
I should like to focus for a moment on the alternative Budget brought down by the Leader of the Opposition as it relates to the macroeconomic area. In short, we reject the 1930s mentality; the idea that merely bringing down the rate of inflation will bring about that salvation which we all want. We have to remind the House and the people that in the 1930s there was virtually no inflation. In the 1930s there was a lowering of wages by means of the Premiers plan. In the 1 930s there were low interest rates but that did not bring about economic health in this country. Heaven forbid that we should have to wait for a war, as happened in the 1930s, before economic health is restored. Surely we have to be innovative and ensure that we have alternative economic policies rather than wait for such a happening to bring us back to full employment. There was no recovery then through this strategy; there will be no recovery now unless the policy changes. 
Let us adopt a more sophisticated approach than that adopted in this Budget. I remind the House of the plans of the Opposition to spend more money. We could spend up to $1 billion more in areas such as capital works and housing where there is a multiplier effect and an employment producing effect. We could spend more on manpower programs. We could spend more, indeed, in offsetting the evils of this Budget which has taken money from those who would spend. The net effect, of course, would not be an addition of $1 billion to the deficit because the increased level of activity would mean a flowback to the Government of increased revenue. We are prepared to go out and sell to the community the idea that an increased deficit can be justified at this time in the interests of the community. 
We accept that there are difficulties and that there is a need for education in this area; that with an increased deficit there is a requirement for increased public sector borrowing. There are also dangers of inflationary expectations. We believe that if there is a proper education campaign in the community- recognising that these are the policies for economic health, recognising that there is no reason why an increased borrowing requirement brought about by the deficit that we have in mind should add to interest rates- these things can be achieved without any adverse effects. It means also that we, as a Parliament, have to recognise that there are difficulties with our reserves, our balance of trade, and our expansionary situation. But once again, if expenditure is regulated carefully so that it is being spent mainly on goods and services that are produced in this country and which will not add to our import Bill, such difficulties could and would be overcome. We should adopt such an expansionary program rather than the dull budgetary strategy which we are debating here this afternoon. 
The Opposition alternative is thoughtful. It is modest. It takes into account the public sector borrowing requirement. It takes into account the reserve situation. It takes into account the inflationary expectation situation. It is a policy that could and would work if it were instituted in this country. It would have an enormous effect on the confidence of the people in this country, the people who need to be persuaded to spend. We need a government which shows that it is fair dinkum about unemployment; a government which shows that it is concerned to see that unemployment will be reduced as well as the rate of inflation. If we had such a government we would have a lowering of the savings ratio; we would have a return to confidence and spending on the part of the Australian community- spending which would restore economic health in Australia. 
This Budget, as outlined by the Treasurer, does not only contain errors of commission such as those I have outlined. It also has many omissions. I refer again to the micro-economic area in which there is a need for more innovative industry policies. The Opposition welcomes the boost to the motor vehicle industry and the cut in sales tax in that area. We welcome also the export market development and industrial research and development subsidies which are contained in this Budget. To the extent that we understand the scheme, we also welcome the project Australia strategy which has yet to be outlined in detail to this House and to the nation. But these are crisis times which require more than just those schemes which I have outlined. We require some economic planning to determine the industries to which most of our efforts should be direct at this particular time. Surely we are all in agreement that there must be an upgrading of the minerals situation. Surely we are all in agreement that there must be much more research and development on which we can base Australian industries at this time. We should put aside far more resources than are outlined in this Budget for expenditure on research and development and export market development allowances in order to ensure that there will be new industries in this country based on exports, based on our research and development and based on the upgrading of the minerals situation. 
I understand that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  is to follow me in this debate. I hope that we will find more than the panacea of the holding of a conference of Ministers for Labour in November in the ideas he will put to the House in his speech. I have been disgusted to find that the calls by Premier Wran of New South Wales, by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  and so many others for a heads of government conference- a dialogue anyway- on this grave problem of unemployment have been rejected. As a result of the conference of Ministers for Labour at which the Minister of Labour and Industry from South Australia put up a scheme relating to the termination of employment, a special conference of the Ministers for Labour has been called for November. Now we find that that is the panacea for finding the answers to the grave unemployment problem. Maybe we will have the Crawford report by then. Maybe we will also have the Williams report. But it is not good enough to wait for a conference of the Ministers for Labour that is two months away to attack these grave problems. We need a return to a sensible Budget policy, as outlined by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  We need some more innovative industry and manpower policies, as I have suggested in my speech today. I trust that the House will support the amendment I have moved. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
-Under the estimates of these two Departments I have a few questions and a few points to make. I am very glad that fortuitously the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr MacKellar)  is in the chamber. He will be able to get the answers to the questions for me. To give him and his officers time to think about these questions I will state them earlier rather than later. The first question to which I would like an answer relates to grantsinaid in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) for the International Social Security Association. In the past financial year $30,000 was appropriated but nothing was spent. In spite of nothing being spent last year why has $18,200 been appropriated this year? I think that perhaps in this chamber we should find the answers to some of these details as do the Senate Estimates committees. I am not aware that the Senate Estimates committees have applied themselves to that particular question to date. 
Similarly, under the Department of Administrative Services we have the heading Australian Property Service and the item fire protection, Commonwealth property. Last year $1,701,326 was spent, whereas this financial year much less is appropriated. I think in this era of inflation we are working at a rate of increase of at least 7.5 per cent. In the Commonwealth sphere, particularly in the defence sphere, and in relation to properties that are looked after by the Department of Administrative Services for the Department of Defence, we are well aware that better fire protection is necessary. It is of interest to me and I am sure to other honourable members to know that less will be appropriated this year compared with last year on such an important item. 
The third question is a technical one inasmuch as I have noted that where appropriations are made for particular international conferences, in previous years they have come out of Appropriation Bill (No. 1) but this year they are being looked after under Appropriation Bill (No. 2). I am looking in particular at amounts appropriated for the International Association for Child Psychiatry and Allied Professions, the International Organisation of Citrus Virologists and the International Conference on Mining and Metallurgy. All these international conferences will take place in this country in this financial year. Last year such appropriations would have been made in Appropriation Bill (No. 1). This year they are included in Appropriation Bill (No. 2). I think it is appropriate that we should seek the reason. 
So much for the questions; now to make a few points. These relate to the amounts appropriated under the heading of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet for the AuditorGeneral's Office and the Public Service Board. Incidentally, about $1 1.5m is to be made available to the Auditor-General's Office. I would have hoped that that amount might have been greater at a time when an amendment to the Audit Act is due to come through the Parliament and when we have efficient audits in the pipeline. Nevertheless I do not have sufficient details to question that appropriation further. There is an increase to about $ 15.75m under Appropriation Bill (No. 1) for the Public Service Board. Last week the Auditor-General's report was tabled in the Parliament. As honourable members know it was highly critical of various sections of government. I make the charge that much of the subject matter of criticism was due directly not to the diligence of public servants in this community but to the Government's parsimonious and heavy handed attitude to the public sector. I refer to the incredibly blunt, unsophisticated and wasteful use of staff ceilings. 
The Auditor-General's report mentioned, just to pick out a few items, that there was a failure in the Government Aircraft Factories properly to control its costs and finances. It was suggested that in the Department of Social Security in 1977-78 debits were raised to record overpayments of benefits, pensions and allowances totalling $ 19.8m- well above the corresponding figure in the previous year. It was stated in relation to the Department of Education, in respect of student assistance schemes, that the figure rose from $2.43m in 1977 to $2.67m in 1978, although the number of cases of overpayments involved fell from 9,174 to 8,661. 1 could go on through a list of the particular charges made by the Auditor-General. But really it is irrelevant for me to give all those details. They are readily available to honourable members and to the country. At this point my main reason for raising the matter is to draw attention to the fact that the Auditor-General himself stated that staff shortages imposed by the Government on its departments were severely affecting the ability of departments to do their jobs. I draw the attention of honourable members and of the country to this serious situation that is now applying in government administration in this country because of the particular ideology being applied to administering the public sector. 
Because the time left to me to speak is short, I pay tribute briefly to  Mr K.  C. O. Shann, the former  Chairman  of the Public Service Board who recently retired voluntarily and prematurely. I believe that this retirement must relate to the growing chaos in public administration brought about by the factors I have mentioned. It has been brought about by the blunt ways of seeking to achieve efficiency, to put the best interpretation on the reasons for the Government's actions in imposing staff ceilings in such an unsophisticated way. I assert that the Labor Party is as keen and as concerned about efficiency in the public sector as is any other group in this community, but we believe that this should be brought about in a proper way, such as by applying the recommendations of the Coombs Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration rather than these blunt ways of applying staff ceilings as the Fraser Government has done in the last  Vh  years. We have evidence that not only do we believe in government efficiency but also we attack this problem in a more sophisticated and reasonable way as a political party. I instance what is happening in both South Australia and New South Wales at the present time. In South Australia the Corbett committee of inquiry is looking into government administration in that State. In New South Wales the Wilenski Review of New South Wales Government Administration is performing the same task. Great praise has been accorded to both those governments for setting up those commissions and to both commissions for the way in which they have set about their task. 
In a number of cases, the Public Service does not have the resources to carry out Government policy in the Federal sector at the present time. The Public Service unions, to their credit, want efficiency. For all that we might enjoy jokes about those who work in the public sector and the inefficient ways in which they use their time, they want efficiency. I believe that we ought to look at the way in which this is sought to be achieved in the public sector. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I do not think the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  will find this debate of the same riveting interest as he did the last debate. So I will not be disappointed if only those honourable members who take a specialist interest in this very specialised area remain to take part in this debate. First of all, I will make a few points about the Trade Marks Amendment Bill 1978 and then I will turn my attention to the Patents Amendment Bill 1 978 before talking about industry policy generally of which these two Bills are a part. The Trade Marks Amendment Bill amends the Trade Marks Act 1955 so that the statutory protection provided by registration of trade marks under the Act is extended to marks which identify and distinguish the services supplied by a particular business and not just goods which hitherto were covered by legislation. Currently the Act is limited to marks identifying only the goods supplied by the business. 
The Opposition finds no objection to this logical extension of the Trade Marks Act. It takes this view for a few reasons. Prior to the introduction of this Bill, successive Australian Trade Marks Acts recognised only those marks which related to goods. This restriction was firstly a legacy of British trade mark legislation we have inherited a lot from Great Britain at a cost as well as a benefit and secondly was a reflection of the relative insignificance of services hitherto at the date of transfer to the Commonwealth of power to legislate on trade marks. Neither proposition would seem to have much relevance now. In this changing world, as I indicated earlier, we can extend to services what has hitherto been applied to goods only. Also, until recently it had generally been accepted that constitutional power to legislate in respect of trade marks did not extend to services. This reflected an earlier judgment by the High Court in the union label case of 1908. The Government's legal advisers recently have advised, however, that this conclusion is not consistent with subsequent High Court decisions in this area; that the provisions of section 5 1 (xviii) of the Constitution empower the Commonwealth to legislate in respect of trade marks concerning services. 
By the end of 1970, 43 countries, including the United States, France, Canada, Korea and Taiwan, had introduced legislation providing statutory protection to trade marks for services. To this extent, Australia, of course, is lagging behind many of the other main industrial countries. We are glad that this Bill means that we are catching up in this area. Moreover, many countries make the entitlement of foreign businesses to such protection conditional upon corresponding protection in the country of origin of those businesses. This significantly disadvantages certain Australian businesses in their operation overseas until this Bill is passed by the Parliament. 
Another point worth making about the Trade Marks Amendment Bill concerns the purpose of the Bill. If that purpose is achieved, firstly by amending the definition of a trade mark in section 6 of the principal Act to include marks used in connection with services and, secondly, by amending, where appropriate, the reference to goods in the principal Act to read 'goods and services ', then indeed we are achieving the purposes which I have indicated are important. Industry has welcomed these amendments. As the shadow Minister responsible in this area, I call for submissions when I have the time to do so. I welcome industry, commerce and other sections of the community involved in areas like this taking the initiative in getting in touch with me as the Opposition spokesman opening the debate in this area: In this case there has been very little response from the community which, I suppose, following the old principle of letting sleeping dogs lie, means that industry and commerce are happy that this legislation should be passed. I can go further than that because I have noted that the Australian Chamber of Commerce has said that these amendments will fill a gap in the Australian law. It pointed out that the Bills introduced a principle which is widely recognised overseas. The Confederation of Austraiian Industry has said that the amendments will bring Australia into line with the internationally accepted standard of affording protection to services marks. 
Having recorded those remarks about the Trade Marks Amendment Bill, I turn my attention to the Patents Amendment Bill 1978. This Bill amends section 54A of the Patents Amendment Bill 1 952 in order to reduce the period during which the information contained in the patents specification is unavailable to the Australian public to a maximum of 18 months. At present, publication of a complete specification is not required until 18 months after the date of lodgment of that document with the Patents Office. As current legislation also allows for up to 12 months to elapse between the filing of an application for patent protection and the lodgment of the specification document, a delay of up to  2Vi  years has resulted hitherto between a patent application and the publication of the specification relating to that application. 
Industries interested in exploiting such developments are disadvantaged for two reasons: Firstly, during that 2%-year period they are unable to determine whether they are entitled to do so without infringing an Australian patent. Secondly, because of recent and increasing trends in the patents laws of major overseas industrial countries which provide for earlier publication of patent specifications than has been provided for so far in Australia, the technical information in patent applications based on prior overseas patent applications- currently 90 per cent of Australian applications- is available to foreign industries before it is disclosed in Australia. Here we have a real discrimination against Australian industry and in favour of foreign based industry. 
For these reasons, the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee),  who is sitting at the table and is piloting this Bill through the House, was correct in saying in his second reading speech: 
. it is clearly desirable that the present excessive delay in the publication of Australian complete specifications should be removed. 
The Minister has been true to his word. He is reducing that delay from  2Vi  years to  Vi  years in this Bill. Accordingly the Bill, by dating the 1 8-month blackout from the date of filing of the patent application, rather than from the date of lodgment of the specifications document, which can be up to 12 months later, will result in most complete specifications being published 12 months earlier than is presently the case. For these reasons, this simple change to the Patents Act 1952 is welcomed by the Opposition, as is the Minister's more general foreshadowing of further amendments to the Act designed, as he said in his second reading speech, 'to encourage a positive approach to invention by Australian industries'. The Opposition is clearly on record as believing that there has to be a more positive response and a more positive intervention by government to help Australian industry. We believe that jobs have to be created not only by upgrading our minerals- just to quote one areabut also by using the results of our own research and development. These two Bills help in that latter area. 
The two Bills form part of a general attempt by the Minister for Productivity to establish a coherent policy for Australian industry on the operation of the laws relating to patents, trade marks and designs which he foreshadowed in March this year. I repeat: We welcome this part of the general policy to ensure a more healthy Australian industry and to ensure that more jobs are created in Australia in order to reduce the enormous army of unemployed. I repeat that the Opposition supports this legislation as far as it goes. It goes as far as it possibly can in this particular area. The Minister has stated that his aim is to encourage and to assist industrial development and commercial activity in Australia. He is on record as saying that the inclusion of industrial property within the responsibilities of the Department of Productivity signals a new emphasis on ensuring that the system contributes as much as possible to the development and productivity of Australian industry. We heard with interest the announcement made in July that an Industrial Property Advisory Committee has been established to advise on continuing changes in Australia's patent, trade marks and designs laws and practices in ways which will boost innovation and productivity improvements in Australian industry. 
I repeat: The Opposition supports this wholeheartedly because we believe that this is one of the areas- I am referring to the results of our own research and development- where new jobs can be created. I am sure that the House will not be surprised when I say that this is good only as far as it goes, inasmuch as it is only a very small part- important though it is- of a total coherent and cohesive industry policy. I take this opportunity to raise some questions, in seeking to prod the Government into further activity to help Australian industry. I ask: When will the Government go further than merely restricting itself to the industrial property policy area and the export market and research and development assistance areas? When will we have clearer guidelines as to those industries into which we must put more resources in this country in order to create jobs? When will we learn explicitly what we believe is implicit at the present time, namely, that industries that require tariff protection of 25 per cent or less Will be encouraged; that there will be a standstill of those industries which require tariff protection of between 25 per cent and 35 per cent; and that definitely no encouragement will be given to those industries that require more than 35 per cent tariff protection- or is the figure 50 per cent? 
I believe that the time is overdue when we should have a clearer statement from the Government on where resources should be concentrated and which industries should be encouraged, so that entrepreneurs in this country will put investment funds into industrial development, knowing that they have the clear support of the Government. It is clear that so far we have not had such a comprehensive statement from the Government. We are having patchwork measures which we can support, such as the two Bills before the House, but these do not add up to an industry pOliCy which is as important and as substantial as we in the Opposition believe that it should be. I am very happy, nevertheless, to support these two Bills and I hope that they will have a speedy passage through the House of Representatives. 
-Did the Prime Minister tell the Sydney Rotary Club yesterday that his prediction that unemployment would fall from February and keep falling was based on forecasts available to him at that time? Was not the unemployment forecast of Professor Donald Whitehead, one of his own economic advisers, that: 'Unemployment is going to rise sharply and will stay higher in 1978 than it was in 1977' as contained in the  National Times  at the end of November 1977 available to him? If not, why not? Similarly, were not the economic forecasts of the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group and the Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research, both of which came out before the end of 1 977, available to him? How does he justify his statement to the Sydney Rotary Club yesterday? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. During the adjournment debate last Thursday night the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  raised my name damagingly in the context of the Lynch affair. He stated that allegations could just as easily be made against members on this side as against the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch).  Without warning me that he was going to do so, which is the normal courtesy in this House, and after extraordinarily professing respect and admiration for the subject of his remarks, he named me. He suggested that a company in which I was a director and shareholder 'used to borrow money to speculate in suburban houses'. This alleged activity of mine was put by him in such a way as to be untruthful and damaging. It offensively misrepresented the position. I reject it, as will all fairminded people, and I shall explain why I reject it. 
A serious allegation has been made against me personally and I want to explain it fully. I am sure that you,  Mr Acting Speaker,  and the House will give me that opportunity. On Sunday, 27 November 1977, during the last Federal election campaign I made a full and true disclosure of my family finances. Part of that statement, which was put in all the Press boxes and much of which was published in newspapers the next day, covered the venture mentioned by the honourable member for Macarthur and described it in the following way: 
. a small private company, shared with another couple, which preserved and restored old houses. 
The statement went on: 
The company operated prior to my entering Parliament. Our half share was sold to the other couple a few years ago after the company had been dormant for a few years. I do not possess the records to enable me to check the facts that we purchased, one at a time, re-decorated and sold, from memory, about seven houses in the seven years 1962-69. Our share of the surplus in those seven years was about $1,000 which would not have covered professional fees for the time spent. 
I emphasise that our share was $1,000 in total over the seven years. I was accountant for the venture. It was part of my accountancy practice. To equate this activity, as the honourable member for Macarthur has done, with that of the Minister for Industry and Commerce is absurd. There was no land speculation. There were no changes in zoning. There were no misuses or illegitimate uses of trusts to evade or avoid taxes. There was a full and true disclosure of all aspects 10 months ago. No properties were purchased for and with my accountancy clients after my entry into this Parliament, other than some shares in a tourist venture which this company bought while I was waiting for my partners to buy me out. If my political opponents think that they can lay a smokescreen to protect themselves from their own improprieties by drawing attention to this sort of venture, they are sadly mistaken. In fact the honourable member for Macarthur, to give him his due, stated that he was not saying that I had been involved in any impropriety. 
I have one final point. 
I would be very happy to have the rest of the statement incorporated in  Hansard.  There is nothing that I want to hide. If those on the other side do not want the full statement but want to go on laying this smokescreen, I am prepared to leave it at that and to take another opportunity - 
I seek leave. 
Government members- No. 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  one final point about this affair is relevant to the proper workings of this House and I feel that I should take the opportunity to make you aware of it. On 13 April last, while I was overseas, the  Australian  newspaper printed a story suggesting that untrue and damaging charges against me, such as those made by the honourable member for Macarthur last Thursday, had been uttered in this House on the previous day. There is no  Hansard  or Australian Associated Press record of that happening. I can find no honourable member who believes that it did happen in this House on 12 April. In fact I state with confidence that the incident did not take place. Here is the relevance: I believe that the story was fed to the newspapers by a Minister, a Government member or a Press secretary and was not checked for delivery. I believe that the honourable member for Macarthur received his material from the same scurrilous source. 
-This is the relevance. I have just two more sentences. That damaging story is now the subject of litigation, as I have taken out a writ against the newspaper for defamation. Similarly, if anyone else damages me in this way without the cowardly protection of parliamentary privilege, he too will be served with a writ. 
-The 385 workers of the Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co Pty Ltd at Geebung that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has told us about and also the other 40 Firestone Australia Pty Ltd workers at Yeronga and some other branches of that Firestone company which I do not think he told us about - 
I beg the honourable member's pardon. He may have mentioned it. I shall now tell the House about them anyway. These people from the honourable member's State are the victims of two phenomena. Both of those phenomena are the fault of the Government which he supports in this Parliament. The first phenomenon is the low level of economic activity which this country is suffering today. The second phenomenon is the technological changes that are going on in our community. With regard to the first phenomenon, the honourable member for Lilley suggested that there should be a stimulus to demand. I agree with him. So does every other Australian Labor Party member in this House. We need him to organise Government members to support the stand being taken by the Australian Labor Party in this Parliament and throughout this country for those expansionary economic policies. I am bound to say that if the honourable member for Lilley were a Labor member he would have been able to raise this subject in this House today- I say that with the greatest personal kindness and respect to him- without facing the charge that he is acting cynically and, some might even say, hypocritically. He is supporting a government in this country which is following policies diametrically opposed to the ones he has advocated in this area of macro-economic policy. The second phenomenon is a technological change. Where was the honourable member for Lilley, and every other honourable member from the Government benches who feels the same way as he does- I hope there are others- during the divisions in this chamber earlier this afternoon when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  sought to bring on Notice No. 1, General Business, now standing on the Notice Paper? 
-He opposed us. He sat over there opposing this matter coming on. The objectives of that motion are the only way of bringing together all the necessary forces which have to be brought together in Australia to discuss properly and effectively technological change. I hope other members on his side feel as he does. At least he is a stage ahead of the other sycophants who sit on that side because he recognises the problem, and I give him credit for that. I challenge him to go further in the interests of the 385 Olympic tyre workers and the 40 Firestone workers and start to organise more effectively for the necessary changes in order to achieve these improved economic policies in this country. 
Of course the Opposition agrees with the sentiments in the discussion of a matter of public importance put forward. There is need to have regard to economic and social consequences when industry is being restructured as is set out in the matter put forward. This applies to the tyre industry as it does to every other industry. Labor members have always supported this sentiment and have put it into action when we have had a chance to do so. Unlike our opponents we do not treat people like chattels. They are people and their social needs need to be looked after. Above all in this context, the economy of the country needs to be looked after. Demand needs to be stimulated in the way that has been suggested by the honourable member for Lilley, but he is sitting on the wrong side of the chamber to promote those sorts of policies. 
Why have we a situation in which men and women in his own electorate, and in other parts of Brisbane- indeed in every part of this country- are being thrust on to the dole queues? It is attributable to the policies and actions of the Fraser Government, which he and others on his side of the chamber support. So many factories are closing that if we are to have an urgency debate every time one closes- and there is very good reason why we should, if only to bring home to the Government the tragic personal circumstances of those who are thrown out of work- the Government's policy will have to be for Parliament to sit permanently. 
Two years and 10 months ago the Liberal and National Country Parties- and the honourable member belongs to the Liberal Party- outraged our Constitution. I do not mind repeating this again and again because that grab for power inflicted deep wounds upon our society. They not only wrongly suggested impropriety on the part of the then Government- and we know now on which side of the chamber the improprieties have occurred- but also promised, two years and 10 months ago, that within three years they would bring this country back to a state of economic health. That was the promise that was made. The Government has two months to go, but things have gone from bad to worse and this urgency debate, which has been brought on by one of its members, merely highlights that fact. More and more factories are closing and the unemployment dole queues are growing daily. If we include the hidden unemployed, we now have at least half a million people in this country seeking work. 
In 1974-75, when the Austraiian Labor Party was in power, there was an economic downturn in Australia. We do not hide that fact, but there were good international economic reasons why that happened. The same cannot be said of the situation today. The point that I make is that in this country expansionist policies are required, just as the International Monetary Fund has suggested them for the world generally, but the Government is not only putting the lid on our economy and forcing our dole queues to grow, but as the days pass we learn that it has the hide to lecture other countries, which believe in expansionist policies, on the need to put a lid on their economies also. 
-We hope that they will not listen, but we learn that the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  is presently in Washington telling fellow IMF delegates how to run their economies. They want expansionist policies because they know that only in that way will an increase in economic activity result. Only in that way will we restore to this country a state of economic health. That is why I make the serious charge- not that I like doing so- that the honourable member for Lilley must be acting cynically. He continues to support a government which acts in that way not only in this country but also overseas. 
I have already indicated that ours are not only macro-economic problems related to budgetary policies. Before leaving that subject, I want to direct attention once again to the alternative Budget strategy, the alternative economic strategy, of the Australian Labor Party, as outlined courageously and in detail on 22 August by the Leader of the Opposition. Its adoption would help enormously to bring this country back to a state of economic health. It would set the necessary scene for technological changes to take place without hurting people in this countrynecessary structural changes if we are to become internationally competitive, increase our trade and in turn increase employment opportunities. We cannot achieve these changes in a time of economic stagnation. We must have that economic health which would result from the policies proposed in the alternative Budget. 
I assert again that the economic policies of the Fraser Government will not work; that putting the lid on the economy just will not work. Indeed, it discourages confidence and because it promotes a reduction in real wages, diminishes the amount of money in the pockets of people. On the other hand, the alternative strategy would restore confidence, would encourage people to spend and would help to achieve the very necessary return of both consumer confidence and business investment, which would generate the jobs that are needed. 
Our micro-economic policies also are vital. The restructuring which takes place must be a restructuring up, one which creates new jobs. There must be a regeneration of existing industries, but this can be done only when there is a high level of activity. Certainly, we need to be internationally competitive, but we cannot achieve that in the atmosphere that prevails in this country, which derives from a policy of relying totally on the marketplace for something to happen. 
At Question Time today we had an answer from the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  relating to the motor industry. He repeated the Government's philosophy of relying on the marketplace, of allowing such firms as Chrysler to make their own individual decisions. No wonder we wake up in the morning and find in the  Courier-Mail  headlines about '385 jobs to go as tyre firm closes'. If we continue to adopt the attitude that it is up to individual firms to make these decisions we will see other headlines about other firms closing and other jobs being lost. The situation is so serious that we need conferences such as have been outlined in the draft resolution of the Leader of the Opposition. We need a consensus. We need dialogue between employers, employees and the Government in order to achieve the necessary economic planning and so that we may know in which industries to concentrate our efforts. Restructuring henceforth must be restructuring up, into new jobs, not restructuring down out of jobs in the tyre industry, as has been indicated by the honourable member for Lilley. Our restructuring has to be into upgrading our minerals, into building jobs in research and development. This will not happen if we merely wait for the market place to act. It will happen only if policies such as have been advocated by the Australian Labor Party are followed. I refer to the establishment of a department of economic development, to the setting of targets for the medium and long term, to the making of government decisions as to which industries should be supported- all of this far more clearly than is being done at present. We cannot put off a technological conference, such as has been suggested by the Leader of the Opposition, in favour of some conference of Ministers of Labour that is to take place next November. The position needs urgent attention. 
I agree with the honourable member for Lilley that new financial structures also are required. We must have a royal commission or committee of inquiry into the capital market also. For some time now we on this side of the chamber have promoted that idea. Indeed, from some of the things that we had read about what was going on on the Government side, we had become hopeful that the Government would take up that suggestion and ensure that an inquiry into the capital market would take place, but no action has been taken. All we are told, in answer to our questions in the Parliament, is that the Government is waiting for the Williams' Committee report, or to hear from  Sir John  Crawford, or until some Ministers of Labour meet on 24 November, or for another interdepartmental committee to report. Every day that we wait we open our papers to find that yet another factory has closed, that another 385 jobs have been lost. One thing that can be said for the honourable member for Lilley is that by raising the matter in the House today he has drawn attention to the urgency of the situation. I fear that what he has had to say about his State applies to every other State in this country. I know that because my own State of South Australia is heavily based on manufacturing industry, the situation there at present is serious. But the situation is not related to the State Government in my State; it is related to the Federal Government. It is related to the macroeconomic and micro-economic policies being carried out by the Fraser Government. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
Has he noted reports that Gove Alumina Ltd and Swiss Aluminium Australia Ltd are studying whether or not to establish Australia 's 4th aluminium smelter. 
What is the Government's attitude to this industrial development. 
At a time when there is so much restructuring down, with consequent loss of jobs, is it not essential that this project, along with the possible new Comalco smelter at Gladstone, Queensland, both examples of restructuring up, should be given every encouragement 
Is it not essential that the Government should use its export powers to insist that such projects are proceeded with and that Australia does not merely continue to be, to such a large extent, a quarry for the rest of the world. 
-The opening paragraph of the introduction to the document  Aborigines- A Statement of Concern,  prepared by the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace for the Catholic Bishops of Australia, reads as follows: 
The injustices responsible for the present condition of Aborigines in Australia are an urgent, concrete local issue, presenting all of us with a challenge. Our response will be a test of our sincerity, not only as persons but also as Christains; it will effectively test the sincerity of our faith. 
We people who are given by our colleagues in the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party shadow ministerial responsibilities in the economic area have few opportunities to follow our interests in social welfare. However, the debate on the Estimates does give us an opportunity to show that interest. We may have closer involvement with the economic area, but we are in the Australian Labor Party because we are motivated by a strong wish to reduce inequalities. There is no area in which public programs can do more to reduce inequalities than this field of Aboriginal Affairs. 
In particular I rise tonight on this subject to pay tribute to two people and one organisation. One person is an Aboriginal; the other person is a white man who is involved with Aboriginals; and the organisation is an Aboriginal organisation. I am referring to  Mr Galarrwuy  Yunupingu,  Dr Stephen  Zorn and the Northern Land Council. All are under attack and all, I believe, deserve support in this Parliament. 
I identify with them. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs may not. I am going to explain why I identify with them. 
I am sorry; I misheard the Minister's interjection, which, of course, I should not have taken up. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)-It  was quite disorderly. 
It was quite disorderly, but I did mishear it. 
-Apparently the Minister was not saying that he did not want to support those people and that organisation but was saying that they had not been under attack by him. I accept that. I am sure that at the same time the Minister will accept that they have been under attack from a lot of people in the white establishment of this country. I hope that his interjection did not mean that he thought it was not proper for me to rise in this Parliament and to make some remarks in their support. 
-That is quite in order with me, if not with you,  Dr Jenkins. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I suggest that the honourable member return to addressing the Chair. 
In my small contribution this evening I draw attention mainly to the address to the National Press Club by  Dr Stephen  Zorn because it received too little coverage, in my view. In that address  Dr Zorn  outlined the thinking behind the position that the Northern Land Council has advanced during negotiations over the Ranger uranium project. I find much misunderstanding about that position. Therefore 
I make no apologies for reading quite a lot of that address into the record of the debates in this chamber. All the time we must remember that the Aboriginal Land Rights Act, under which the Northern Land Council,  Dr Stephen  Zorn and the  Chairman  of the Council, Galarrwuy Yunupingu, are forced to work, does not allow Aborigines to withhold consent for uranium mining. I believe that it is important that we should recognise the constraints under which they all have worked.  Dr Stephen  Zorn made a number of points. He stated: 
The first point that one needs to bear in mind is that Aboriginals in the Alligator Rivers uranium province are basically opposed to mining development. They would willingly forgo the promise of large royalty payments if they could be assured that the major uranium mines at Ranger, Jabiluka, and Koongarra would not be built. 
He went on to state: 
The Aboriginal opposition to major uranium mining projects is not something that has been dreamed up just to add strength to the Northern Land Council's bargaining position. This opposition was clearly stated by representatives of Northern Territory Aboriginals during the Woodward inquiry on Aboriginal land rights and again during the Fox inquiry on the Ranger project. 
I find too much cynicism abroad about the motives of the Northern Land Council, its leaders and its consultants, and I believe that we should make what  Dr Stephen  Zorn said quite clear. He also said: 
I think one needs to look at the specific political position in which Aboriginals have been placed in order to understand why a simple-minded opposition to mining and, in effect, a refusal to negotiate in good faith would have been counterproductive. 
I repeat something I said earlier in my remarks by reading further from  Dr  Zorn's  remarks. He said: 
Under the Aboriginal Land Rights Act 1976, in the form that was eventually enacted following the change of government in 1975 - 
This was not the form desired by the Labor Party; it is the form that was brought in by the Liberal-National Country Party Government at that time- 
Aboriginals do not have an absolute right to prevent the development of any proposed mining project. In the case of certain identified projects, notably including Ranger, the Act does not provide for the withholding of consent to mining. If the Land Council, representing the traditional Aboriginal owners of the land, refuses to negotiate, or if, in the opinion of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the Council is unable to agree on the terms and conditions of a mining agreement, then the Act provides for an arbitration procedure which will enforce a set of terms and conditions on the Council and the land owners. 
This is what is hanging over the heads of those who are negotiating on behalf of the Northern Land Council.  Dr Zorn  continued: 
Faced with these legal limitations, and with the firmly expressed intention of the Fraser Government to go forward with uranium mining, the Northern Land Council had little choice but to negotiate for the best possible arrange- &lt; ment . . . 
During the course of the negotiations, the Land Council, acting on the advice of the traditional owners of the land, has been pursuing three interrelated objectives. 
First, and most important, has been, the objective of protecting the land itself, as much as is ever possible in a mining project . . . because of Aboriginals' very close identification with the land, the question of environmental protection and the minimising of harmful effects of the mining projects has been one that has been paramount in the Ranger negotiations . . . 
The second major objective - 
It is well for members of this chamber to remember this point when discussing Aboriginals-  in the uranium negotiations has been what might be called social protection, or minimising the destructive influences of large numbers of outsiders coming on to Aboriginal land to build and operate the mines. We are not, 1 think, concerned here with some sort of living museum, in which well meaning white outsiders try to protect a fragile culture and preserve it against change. That is an excessively paternalistic and, quite frankly, racist attitude, which assumes that Aboriginals do not have the capacity to decide for themselves what sort of lives they want to lead. What we are concerned with is giving Aboriginals in the area of the uranium development some small breathing space so that they can in fact decide these issues for themselves. 
The Aboriginals have been given a longer breathing space, thankfully, after some very valuable work done by Labor Party members in the Northern Territory and others who realise that a lot of heavy pressure was being put on these people who require time to consider their proposition. 
-Yes, the Aboriginals with help, but certainly mainly the Aboriginals. I agree with the honourable member for Reid.  Dr Zorn  went on: 
Without some social protection measures, such as limiting the numbers of whites who will be allowed into the region and establishing strict rules on such matters as alcohol control, Aboriginal communities will be totally overrun by new developments. 
I have only a moment to mention the third major objective of the traditional Aboriginal land owners and of the Land Council in the  nego-.  tiations, and that has been to ensure a fair and reasonable financial settlement. If we look at the sort of financial settlements that have been made with the indigenous people in Canada and the United States of America we will find nothing extravagant at all about the settlement that has been temporarily arrived at by  Dr Zorn  and the Northern Land Council to date. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
1 ) What statistical collections ceased during 1 977-78. 
) What statistical collections are to cease during 1 978-79 or later. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report in  Inside Canberra  that he caused surprise when his statement on the retirement of  Mr Lance  Barnard as Ambassador to Sweden, Norway and Finland expressed not a line of appreciation for the services given by the former Labor  Deputy  Prime Minister in his diplomatic position? 
Is this not a radical departure from protocol? 
) Is it an administrative blunder or a direct snub? 
Will he correct the unfortunate impression left by this regrettable episode? 
-Our country's economy is drifting deeper and deeper into depression. The conservatives who rule us, namely, those members of the Liberal and National Country parties who sit opposite, have not got the answers to the grave economic problems which face our country. Their policies are wrong. As every day goes by those policies are seen more clearly to be wrong. The magnificent vote for Labor last Saturday in New South Wales shows that the Australian people now realise increasingly that the conservatives' economic policies are wrong. The time is overdue for the policies to be changed or for the Fraser Government to resign. The time of lying to the people about the realities of our economy must cease. This Parliament is the forum in our country where all the issues of concern to the Australian people must be raised without fear. I raise without apology the sensitive issues of Australia's reserves, Australia's balance of payments, on which we had a report today from the Australian Bureau of Statistics, Australia's balance of trade on which we had a report yesterday, and Australia's overseas borrowing, on which we had a statement last Friday from the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  whom I am glad to see in the House. The Labor Opposition in this national Parliament would be neglecting its duty if it did not probe the Fraser Government on this vital area of national policy making. 
The Australian people are not concerned only about unemployment. Labor has at last flushed out the Government on that grave issue. Some of our opponents at last are facing the truth on that issue because of the work we have done in flushing them out. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has come clean on the true facts about that issue. Even the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has been forced similarly to come clean on that issue, if only in a half-hearted way. But that is not the only issue in relation to the Australian economy. The Australian people are also gravely concerned about our reserves. Are we paying our way as a nation? That is a question that legitimately should be asked. Why is there the need for these vast borrowings overseas? It is time the Fraser Government was flushed out and forced to come clean on that issue too. 
Why is it that these same people who made such an issue of overseas borrowings at the time of the Whitlam Government are seen so clearly to be indulging in those practices which they criticised so severely just three years ago? That is one of the serious questions being asked today by so many of the Australian people. Could it be because they were lying to the Australian people at the time of the so-called loans affair? The evidence points to that. Did they mislead the Australian people then? Or is it because circumstances have changed? Is it because their policies have led to a worsening of our balance of trade? Are we now importing more than we are exporting? Has their policy of devaluation two years ago been a disaster? Are we paying out too much on invisibles- freight, insurance and so on? Have the conservatives who rule us no policy in this area to save us from making these large invisible payments month after month? Is this why our reserves have been dropping? Is this why we have had to embark on this borrowing program, the latest announcement being made by the Treasurer only last Friday? Or is the crisis due to the Fraser Government-promoted stagnation in another way? Because our level of economic activity is so low, does this mean that overseas investors have no confidence in us? There is no capital coming in for real income and job producing programs. Traditionally we have covered our adverse balance of payments in this way. We are no longer able to do so because of the Fraser Government-promoted lack of confidence, not only in this country but also on the part of those who would properly invest in this country. We have no inflow of overseas capital. Is that the problem? Or is it a combination of all the factors raised in the questions I have just put to the House? 
We of the Labor Opposition have our answers to those questions, and I will indicate some of the answers as the debate progresses. But our important function today is to flush out from the Government the answers to these grave questions. It is the Liberal and National Country party members, or in particular the Fraser Government Ministers, who must be put on the spot, who must face the facts and face the truth. For it is only when we force them to face reality, or to resign, that we shall achieve the necessary change to correct policies for our country. In other words, until we as a nation face reality, or in particular until the Government faces reality, we shall not adopt correct economic policies or any other policies. Let us have a little realism from the Government today in this debate on our overseas position. Will the Treasurer come clean on this issue, as we forced the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations to come clean on the issue of unemployment? For the sake of our nation, will the Treasurer please come clean in this debate today? 
Here are some of the facts which have prompted this debate. Yesterday the Australian Bureau of Statistics issued the latest figures on our balance of trade. Exports and imports were both covered. The results for the month of September were the worst for many years. The results for the quarter ended September were the worst for well over four years, namely, since the height of the international recession. Let me highlight how serious the situation is by quoting a few figures. For the quarter ended September 1977 there was a surplus of $276m; for the quarter ended December 1977, a surplus of $402m; for the quarter ended March 1978, a surplus of $27 lm; and for the quarter ended June 1978, a surplus of $104m. Those figures related only to the balance of trade. I am not taking into account the very serious invisibles figure. However, in spite of this surplus of trade for the quarters I have mentioned, we find that in the September 1978 quarter, the results for which were announced yesterday, there was a deficit of $4m on the balance of trade alone. For the month of September the deficit alone was $72m. 
In the Budget Papers we learned that the Government was expecting a current account deficit of $3,000m for the 1977-78 financial year. The noted merchant bankers and international economic commentators, Hill Samuel Australia Ltd, are now predicting that Australia's current account deficit will be closer to $4,000 m than $3,000m in the current financial year. A second fact that must be faced is that, in spite of overseas borrowings, our reserves have run down in the last four weeks by an amount approximating $200m. Is that realistic? A headline in one newspaper states: 'Dogs barking as Fraser ponders'. The gold and foreign exchange reserves have taken such a pounding that they are below the crucial $3,000m mark. The figures show that at the close of business last Wednesday reserves stood at $2, 986. 8m, which is $66.5m less than the figure the Wednesday before. But this amount includes a $35m boost from the month's revaluation of gold so that the underlying change just for that week ending Wednesday was a drop of $10 1.5m. This drop follows falls of $70m and $92m in the previous two weeks. That means that there have been only two weeks since the end of April when there has been an increase in the underlying change in the holdings. 
I have taken this information from newspapers and government releases. I hope that no one is going to make the charge in this debate or at any other time or will suggest in any way that it is not the proper function of the Opposition to flush out these facts and to seek from responsible Ministers a reaction to these sorts of facts that are being published in newspapers and are being canvassed round the country generally. 
The balance of payments figures that I mentioned earlier were released today by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. They paint a similarly gloomy picture- an adverse balance of $85m for September and of $205m for the three months ended September 1978. The greatest tragedy of those figures, month after month, quarter after quarter, is the net figure for invisibles- freight insurance and so on. I would like to hear from the Government as to what it intends to do about this large pay-out. What is its policy to ensure that this country is not drained more and more by these invisible figures? 
A third part of this problem which has to be faced is contained in the Treasurer's statement of last Friday about borrowings. Over and above the $2.5 billion-that is, $2,500m-which the Fraser Government has already borrowed since it took office, it is now borrowing a further $600m from the Japanese. What is the explanation to justify the borrowing of such a vast sum? We have not heard one in this House. A proper explanation has not been given in any Press release that I have seen. At the same time I ask: What is the explanation for the haste surrounding that announcement? What is the reason for the premature announcement before the terms and conditions of the loan had been finalised? Is this an indication of concern? If so, should we not learn about that concern in this Parliament? 
To highlight the vast extent of these overseas borrowings by the Fraser Government, let me give some more salient facts. Last financial year the Fraser Government borrowed $ 1 , 750m overseas. So far this year it has announced borrowings worth over $ 1,000m. The announcement relating to the Japanese loans is only the latest of a long line of borrowings. Total government borrowings overseas has now reached the level where the Government owes foreign financiers $280 for each man, woman and child in this country, compared with only $90 a head when the Fraser Government took over in November 1 975. That does not include the proposed $600m Japanese loans. If we take them into consideration, for each man, woman and child in this country, we are going to be owing $320 as against the $90 at the time the Fraser Government came to office. 
-Yes, $320 as against $90. 1 again ask: What is the reason for this extraordinary state of affairs? How do we reconcile this situation with- this is just one example- the statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on the  AM  program after the devaluation in November 1976. The Prime Minister said: 
Is there a man here who would say they would sooner put Australia into hock to the tune of $ 1,000m rather than devalue? 
This was said by the man who proposes to put us into hock to the tune of $3,000m before this year is out. On top of putting us into hock to this extent, he has devalued the currency. Those words were said by the man who so cynically made such a thing of the 'loans affair'. At least the negotiations that were conducted in that instance were for the purpose of developing this great country and of" keeping its ownership in Australian hands. To date there is no such purpose to be seen in relation to the Fraser Government 's proposed borrowings of $3,000m. All the Prime Minister is doing is shoring up the reserves, which have been plummeting downwards because of his Government's inept performance, its gross economic mismanagement. 
Is the latest premature borrowings announcement to stop speculation? If so, let us hear the facts. On the  This Day Tonight  program on 2 December 1976 the Prime Minister, when justifying the then devaluation policy, said: 
Now nobody could guarantee that borrowing $ 1,000m would stop the speculation. 
What has changed? Are we ricocheting from one shoot from the hip policy to another? That is a genuine and legitimate question. 
The fourth set of facts which must be faced relates to the repayment of these vast loans. Under a Labor government there would be some expansion, some development, so that the necessary funds would be generated for repayments. Under the conservatives, we have stagnation. The repayments and the interest on this debt are going to be a substantial drain on future Budgets. By 1981-82 repayments of existing borrowings amounting to $53 lm will have to be made and interest payments will require at least $250m a year. If we have any more devaluations of the Australian dollar compared with the borrowed currencies, the position will be even worse. The amounts needed to meet these debts will be increased. These enormous costs add up to another reason why the Treasurer is duty bound to tell the Australian people, through this 
House, why this is being done. We give him that opportunity in this debate on this matter of public importance. 
The nation is entitled to know whether the Government expects an improvement in our balance of payments situation in the near future and, if so, by what amount. If an improvement is expected, what will cause the turn-around? I have already shown that the Hill Samuel organisation expects the opposite, namely, a worsening of the situation. The Labor Opposition believes that there will be a turn-around in the present depression prognosis only if there is a change in policy. We are not the only people who are concerned about this matter. On my desk yesterday was a copy of  Canberra Comments,  a publication of the Australian Chamber of Commerce. I quote from that document. Under the heading 'Balance of Payment', the document states: 
In the Chamber's opinion too much reliance was being placed on a revival of foreign investment to help balance our external accounts. In the meantime there was a limit to the extent that the balance of payments could be underpinned by official borrowings. 
There we have one of the Government's great supporters- the Australian Chamber of Commerce- making the same point that I am making in this debate and in so doing I am giving the Treasurer the opportunity to respond. We reject the present stagnation economic policy. We believe that the country requires an expansionary policy. We want to stop the present drift. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Has the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs noted a report to the effect that  Sir Samuel  Burston, the  President  of the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council, is 'disappointed with the Government's apparent indifference and inaction over the rejection by Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort Ltd of the Prices Justification Tribunal's recommendations that woolbroking charges be reduced'? Instead of further weakening the Prices Justification Tribunal by yet more statements promising further emasculation of the PJT, will the Minister cease the indifference, and act to ensure that the PJT's benefits are passed on directly to thousands of country people and indirectly to other people? 
-I know that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  has a statement to make about this Bill. While we are waiting for his arrival, perhaps I could commence to speak on the motion for the second reading of the Bill and then seek leave to continue my remarks. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
1 ) What proportion of imports are inputs for secondary industry. 
What proportion of these imported inputs are subject to tariffs. 
-I shall continue with my speech in the second reading debate of this Bill. I explained that the Opposition does not oppose this Bill. I explained that while we are not being critical of the particular amendments of which the House has been notified for some time, that is not to say that we will not need more information on a couple of the amendments which the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  has just notified to the House, particularly during the Legislation Committee hearing. We will need more information about those amendments before we are able to make a decision on them. 
That is also not to say that we do not have some misgivings about part of the legislation. We intend to voice those misgivings. Not only will I do so but my colleague, the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  who will speak later in this debate, also will voice a number of misgivings about the consumer protection sections of the Act generally and the amendments to those sections in the Bill which is now being debated. We have even more misgivings about the administration of the trade practices legislation generally at the present time and what may be ahead in the pipeline in the way of further amendments which will further water down the legislaton. That does not mean that there is no need for changes. Prior to giving way for the Minister to make his statement I indicated that changes are taking place all the time in the community which require changes in legislation to bring it up to date. 
The amendments introduced by the Minister earlier this year fall into three categories. Firstly, there is an extension of the present exemptions from the prohibition in section 45a of the Act to cover price fixing for joint ventures relating to services. Section 45a prohibits collusion generally. The exemptions allow collusion relating to price fixing between partners in a joint venture applying to goods. We now note that the proposed amendment to the trade practices legislation involves the exemption of price fixing for joint ventures relating to services so that the exemption corresponds with that relating to goods. It was apparently the intention of the Goverment that the 1977 amendments to the Trade Practices Act should provide for equality of treatment between joint ventures for goods and joint ventures for services. However, the Trade Practices Amendment Act 1977 refers only to goods. The aim of the amendment in this Bill to section 45a of the Principal Act is to remove this anomaly. Hence, as the Government's 1977 amendments were accepted it would seem reasonable to remove the possibility that the law unfavourably discriminates against joint ventures for services vis a vis joint ventures for goods. 
Before accepting this amendment unconditionally it is worth while considering the wisdom of exempting price fixing in joint ventures from the prohibition of section 45A. It is worth while noting that the intentions of this Bill and the 1977 amendment Bill went much further than the recommendations of the Swanson committee, the Committee, the Committee set up by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs in the Fraser Government to look at the Trade Practices Act brought in by the Whitlam Government and advise the present Government whether it was too harsh in its effect upon the business community. The amendment relating to services goes further than the recommendations of the Swanson Committee. The Committee argued, firstly, that all restrictions on joint venture agreements, other than those having the purpose or effect of fixing prices, should be judged on their effects on competition between the parties to the agreement and other persons. This would have significantly relaxed the law regarding joint ventures. It argued, secondly, that restrictions in joint venture agreements which have the purpose or effect of fixing prices of the product sold should be prohibited except where they can 'reasonably be regarded as necessary if the parties are to agree to a joint venture'. 
Joint ventures may be an increasingly important means of improving the international competitiveness of Australian industry. With 14 million people we are a small country compared with many of our competitors in world markets. This smallness could lead to insufficient economies of scale. That is why we need joint ventures. It is necessary for the companies in our country which are smaller than their competitors to get together with other, we hope Austraiian, companies to form a unit of the necessary size in many cases to undertake a particular project. This improvement in competitiveness could result from the additional size or the complementary nature of plant and equipment, staff, finance, know-how or property which amalgamation may achieve. 
Joint ventures and natural resources development are often regarded as synonymous. However, this should not disguise the fact that they also present possibilities for excessive profit and restricted output by using the agreement to avoid price competition. For this reason, it is a pity that the Swanson Committee's recommendationsthis is our view; naturally we will be glad to hear the Minister in reply on this subject- were not followed since the allowance for authorisation would have enabled the Trade Practices Commission to balance the public benefits associated with improved international competitiveness against the possible anti-competitive detriments associated with including price in the joint venture agreement. 
Before leaving the subject of joint ventures I also note that the amendments will make it easier for parties to enter into joint venture price agreements on services in other ways. The amendments are understood to follow representations from the major trading banks seeking exemption from section 45 of the Act for consortium bank lending arrangements. In a joint consortium loan, a lead bank negotiates on behalf of all the participating banks. The terms and conditions of the loan are the same between all the lenders and borrowers. This sort of arrangement could cause difficulties under section 45 at present as it is doubtful whether the exemption in that section in relation to joint ventures applies to services of this type. The relevant amendments are expected to correct this situation. If they do- we hope that they do- this will be welcome. In a world of increasing trade, which we hope will apply to our country, it is necessary for our banks to be more imaginative than they have been in the past and to get together in joint lending arrangements such as the one I have suggested. 
The other two points I make about the legislation, as it was announced to the House earner this year, are the introduction of a specific prohibition on false or misleading job advertisements and the inclusion in the Act of provisions relating to manufacturers' warranties. As I have already suggested, my colleague, the honourable member for Parramatta will be saying much more about the consumer protection clauses in the amending Bill. I merely mention that the first part of the Minister's proposed amendments which deals with new section 53B will prohibit all corporations from making materially false or misleading statements in job advertisements. The law presently covers only advertisements by employment agencies. The second part of the Minister's amendments deals with new sections 74A to 74L, which will provide that manufacturers and importers generally will be concurrently liable with the actual seller of the goods and that the actual seller of the goods will be able to recover damages in cases where the consumer could have recovered similar damages from the manufacturer or importer. That applies in certain conditions. Those conditions are as follows: Firstly, where the goods are not reasonably fit for a purpose made known to the manufacturer or importer; secondly, where the goods do not correspond with the description which the manufacturer or importer has applied to them; thirdly, where the goods are not of merchantable quality; fourthly, where they do not correspond with a sample supplied; fifthly, where the manufacturer or importer unreasonably fails to ensure that repair or service facilities are available to the consumer; and, lastly, where the manufacturer or importer fails to comply with an express warranty made by him in relation to the goods. 
As I say, those particular consumer protection changes will be enlarged upon by the honourable member for Parramatta. Before I resume my seat I would like to make some comments on the statement which the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs has just made and which gave notice that further amendments are to be introduced at the Committee stage. The Minister puts those amendments into four categories. The Opposition has no objection whatsoever to the proposed amendments. In fact, we support the amendments contained in the first two categories. As for the amendments in the second two categories, the case rests at the present time. The jury is out. We need more information. We hope that we will get that information when the Bill is considered by the Legislation Committee. We will make our judgments when we get that information. 
Now I shall be more specific. The Minister referred, first of all, to the definition of 'express warranty'. We are promised that this definition is to be amended so that an express warranty applies to undertakings, assertions or statements in relation to the quality, performance or characteristics of the goods. The second amendment which I have said we will support relates to a manufacturer's liability where his goods are of unmerchantable quality. That liability will be extended to the successors in title to a consumer. So the liability will not extend only when the first owner of the goods sells them to a second owner; it will remain with those goods when they are passed on, such as in the case of a gift passing from a father to a daughter. 
I repeat that the Opposition welcomes each of those amendments. Essentially they are aimed at either clarifying the intention of the Bill or extending the coverage of the Bill in the favour of the consumer. The first amendment simply intends to ensure that the competitive test in section 4d corresponds with the test in section 45. Because I cannot find the place in the Bill at this stage I am not able to state the purport of the second amendment. I repeat that I will be asking further questions about it when the Bill is considered by the Legislation Committee. 
In summary, the Opposition is not opposing the second reading stage of the Bill. We support the proposed extension of the Bill in relation to services and goods as they relate to section 45a. More will be said about the consumer protection section. We are looking forward to learning more about the Bill, and the latest amendments that have been announced in the House only in the last 20 minutes or so, when the Bill is considered by the Legislation Committee. 
-by leave-The Opposition condemns the policy decisions announced by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  in his statement as a further weakening of the Prices Justification Tribunal. In fact, I go further. I believe that there already has been a de facto abolition of the PJT. The decisions announced in this statement add up to another nail in its coffin. Let those people in the Liberal and National Country parties opposite who said in their campaign for the 1975 Federal election that they would abolish the PJT have the courage of their convictions. We would have some respect for them if they openly carried out the wishes they expressed in that campaign. But we have no respect whatsoever for them achieving their purpose of abolition by using the back door. Cynically, through their Minister, they announced today- and I quote the Minister's statement: 
The Government has decided to retain the PJT. 
Let me state quite clearly on behalf of the Opposition that in the form in which the PJT is being retained it will be even more useless than it has been since the Government started meddling with it two and a half years ago. It was already relatively useless in the form in which it had existed to date, since the Government started meddling with it. Now uselessness is being compounded by these changes that have been announced. 
All wage and salary earners of this country have reason to feel very angry about the changes that have been made and are being made to the Prices Justification Tribunal. Their income increases are subject to scrutiny and the Fraser Government does not want them even to be reimbursed for past cost increases. They are obliged to go to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to justify their increases. They do not get even indexation automatically. They have to listen to submissions put before that Commission by the Fraser Government seeking to limit their income increases. They have to listen to ministerial speeches made day after day around this country blaming them for all the country's economic ills. But no justice whatsoever is meted out by this Government. It blames only wage and salary earners. There is no equity in the way that it tackles this problem. There is no exhortation even to other income earners in the community. In particular, and we see it from this statement by the Minister, there is the emasculation- indeed, the de facto abolition- of the only body in our community which has scrutiny over prices. 
Today's announcement has two main effects. Firstly, those under scrutiny are lessened in number. In fact, there is no longer any automatic need to notify on a turnover basis. Only those few who become subject to an inquiry after getting the permission of the Minister for such inquiry, and I will come to that in a moment, are obliged to notify their price increases to the Tribunal. There is inequity in this, patent inequity. It is discriminating in as much as costs to the particular companies under scrutiny are then compounded by the very people who are scrutinised by the PJT having to add to their costs the automatic notification. So we are going to find this discrimination in one industry vis-a-vis another or one company vis-a-vis another within an industry. Not only are we going to find the initial discrimination based on pork barrelling, as there will be in this new set up; we are also going to find that discrimination compounded. As a consequence, there will be enormous pressures to do very little because the PJT itself will realise that any company or industry it brings under scrutiny will have its costs compounded by it then being obliged to go on notifying its prices. 
The second effect to which I have already alluded is that the Tribunal will be open to Government decision-making. No longer is it to be an independent body, acting without fear or favour. I believe that it will become a porkbarrelling tool of this Fraser Government. Does anyone imagine that the pre-inquiry consultative process which the Minister has announced in his statement will be anything less than an opportunity for interested parties to put pressures on their government? In short, the Tribunal will no longer be an independent body. It will come directly under the scrutiny of the Minister, under the direction of the Fraser Government. This is a bad day for the man in the street because the balance has been tilted further in favour of big business and against his interests. I hope that he will rally, particularly through trade unions and other consumer groups, to condemn the Government not only for what it has done in the past in emasculating the PJT but for what it is doing today in putting another nail in the Tribunal's coffin. This is an important body; it is under even greater threat. We need it to survive so that a Labor Government, when taking it over, can reform it and make it a worthwhile institution in our community. 
I have suggested that already the weakening has taken place, and I want to take these few minutes to go through the litany of things that have been inflicted to date on this independent tribunal by the Government. Let me mention the number of people who are surveyed and the decrease in that number, the number of people who are obliged to notify the Tribunal and the decrease in that number. It has gone from bad to worse. Let me draw attention to the ministerial speeches made around this country that have weakened the authority of the Tribunal. Let me also mention that this Tribunal has had only an acting  chairman  for months and months. We have heard no excuse whatsoever about why the Government has not done what it should have done and appointed a  chairman  to the Tribunal. Let me mention the sort of staff cuts that have taken place in the Tribunal. Two years ago it had 160 staff. Today is has only 90, with only two in the research department. Can we have any reason at all to feel anything but cynical about the Government suggesting that it is retaining the Tribunal? It is retaining it as nothing more than a piece of window dressing, for reasons that I will come to a little later. 
Let me also mention, and this is recent news, the explicit backing given to companies by the Fraser Government against this independent tribunal, the Prices Justification Tribunal. I need mention only the recommendation of the Tribunal to Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort Ltd to reduce its commission charges. That recommendation has not been carried out by Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort Ltd, although a similar recommendation has been carried out by every other company. I state my concern that the Minister did not take the opportunity in this House last Thursday, in answer to my question, to back the Tribunal against Elder Smith and ensure that the authority of the Tribunal was maintained in that case. But no, another nail was put in the coffin through a lack of fortitude, a lack of backing for the Tribunal by this Government. Since then we have seen announcements in the various newspapers of this country that telegrams have been sent to the Government by oil companies seeking exemption from the Tribunal's scrutiny. Here we have another case of the pocket of the man in the street being hurt by increased oil prices in favour of big business, of the man in the street not getting the backing that he should get from his Government, or from the Government that occupies the Treasury bench at the present time. 
I can cite case after case backing absolutely our charge that this weakening has been going on in the two and a half to three years of this Government's existence, and today's announcement is a final nail in the coffin. Incidentally, before I forget to mention it, I want to. draw attention to the fact that the announcement made in this House by the Minister in the last half hour has either been leaked by the Government to the Press or, once again, has found its way accurately into the Press in the last few days. We had the story in the  Age  by Michele Gratten last Friday, followed up by one by Andrew Kruger in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  and I think another story in the  Australian  on Saturday. The Government has reason to feel ashamed that it cannot keep decisions like this to itself until they are announced properly in the Parliament. Rather, we find them being leaked to the Press or the Press getting hold of them at an earlier time. 
I have mentioned my belief that the two main announcements made today, the two main policy changes, amount to a further weakening of the PJT. I would like to go on and point out that all we are going to get from now on is ad hoc inquiries. Then, after the Minister has been put under great pressure by those who are the backers of this Government, those who feed this Government with funds, after all those pressures have been applied, he still has to make a decision in favour of a Tribunal hearing. Who in this House or in the community believes that there will be many hearings after all those sorts of pressures have been put on the Minister? It should be noted that this statement announced the policy change that interim price increases can take place. The Tribunal will make its inquiries in an atmosphere in which the prices have already been increased so there will be extra pressure against the interests of the man in the street and pressures in favour of business to see that the particular price increases are allowed by the Tribunal. This is another way in which the Tribunal is being weakened. 
All the factors which I have outlined to the House add up, as I have suggested, to this being a black day for the man in the street. His pocket will be hit even further. No independent tribunal will exist in the way it should in this community to look after his interests against the interests of those who have the power to put up prices. There is a need for a strong independent body. Competition should ensure the lowest possible prices in many sectors. The Australian Labor Party does not intend that there should be expensive inquiries or surveillance where there is proper competition, but we have to face the fact that competition does not exist in many sectors of our economy. Such surveillance and inquiries as the Prices Justification Tribunal has been carrying out are needed very badly so that the lowest possible prices can be applied. 
I have mentioned the cynicism- the hypocrisy- of the Government in pretending that such a tribunal continues to exist. Part of that window dressing is to put into legislation the use of the Tribunal in matters such as the fuel equalisation scheme. Of course it is essential that we have such a tribunal. There should never have been any question that it should be abolished. The Government has ensured that the window dressing is there but the substance is not. The Tribunal will continue to exist but in a very weak form. It will not carry out the duties that it should carry out. The Australian Labor Party does not believe that the Tribunal is absolutely perfect. We did not believe that it was even at the time that we lost government. We believe that there are needs for reforms in the way the Tribunal works. I personally am not in favour of its present quasi legal method of working. I believe that there is a great deal of merit in following the ways of working of the Prices Commission in the United Kingdom. These options will be before the Labor Party in the decisions it will take about the form of tribunal that will exist when it comes back into government. That is not to say that we do not strongly support the need for such a tribunal. 
We also believe that the Tribunal needs better guidelines than it has been given hitherto. We agree that business should be free to the greatest extent possible from any unnecessary regulation or cost. We do not believe that the Tribunal has to be emasculated in the way that this Government has emasculated it in order to free business from unnecessary regulation or cost. It would be far better if the Government set about to coordinate the information that the Tribunal is seeking from business with that which other bodies, such as the Trade Practices Commission and the Industries Assistance Commission, are seeking. If that information were co-ordinated it would be less costly for business to supply it. In short, I return to the point I have already made. This is a bad day for the man in the street and a good day for business. The dividends that big business require from the Government which it finances are coming home in this case. The former regulations were necessary to achieve the lowest possible prices. It is a sad day. The Government should be condemned for emasculating the Prices Justification Tribunal further. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hodges)  adjourned. 
-I am leading for the Opposition in the discussion on these estimates. I want to remind the House that the problems facing the Australian economy are structural as well as cyclical. Earlier, in the debate on the matter of public importance, we heard quite a number of facts and arguments in relation to the cyclical aspect but when it comes to discussing the role of the Department of Industry and Commerce it is important to have a look at the structural aspects. The problems confronting the economy in general and manufacturing industry in particular in the structural area are; firstly, that insufficient jobs are being created to accommodate the 130,000 people coming into the work force each year and those who are currently unemployed; and secondly, the difficulties which increasing balance of payments problems mean in terms of interest rates, recessions and so on. 
Associated with these problems has been a decline in both the relative and absolute size of the manufacturing sector. I would like to draw to the attention of the House some salient statistics in that regard. For instance, in the 1960-61 financial year 29 per cent of the total gross domestic product at factor cost was attributable to the manufacturing sector. The latest figures that I have available to me show that by 1974-75 the percentage of GDP attributable to the manufacturing sector had fallen to 22 per cent. A similar story can be seen if one looks at the proportion of total employment in each sector. In 1960-61 the manufacturing sector was responsible for 28 per cent of total employment. By 1974-75 it was responsible for only 23 per cent. 
The main questions are: Does the decline of manufacturing really matter? Should any new policies be adopted to affect the trend? The Australian Labor Party believes that the answer to these questions is a definite 'yes '. This is very pertinent in discussing these Estimates because we have to look at errors of omission as well as errors of commission. We say 'yes' to that question about the manufacturing sector mattering for a number of reasons. The first reason that I want to draw to the attention of the House is that the balance of payments problems are long term and cannot be resolved by hopes of increased capital inflows and increased exports of our minerals, even if we do have appropriate macro economic policies. The second reason why we answer 'yes' to that question is that the services sector cannot in our view be relied upon to the degree it has been relied upon in the past to provide the jobs for those no longer required in manufacturing because of the impact of new technology upon the tertiary sector. That impact includes the many new computers and word processing machines that are coming on to the market. 
It is generally believed now- I have seen no evidence to contradict this belief- that the tertiary sector is the sector which will feel the enormous impact of the technological revolution, so we cannot expect it to take up the reduction in employment in the manufacturing sector that has applied hitherto. The third reason why we answer 'yes' is that it is our belief that restructuring up into resource based primary industry, whilst important, will in itself not provide a sufficient number of jobs in the 1980s to ensure that sufficient jobs are being created to allow the 130,000 net increase in the work force, to say nothing of the half million people who are unemployed, to be given jobs. In summary, the continuation of past trends and the reliance upon past policies, given current circumstances, inevitably will mean long term unemployment. The Fraser Government, in our view, must take more of a leadership role in this matter than it has taken hitherto if these grave challenges are to be met. I make the point, in colloquial language, that it is later than we think. The Government, in our view, is not tackling these problems with sufficient urgency. 
Let me emphasise some of the policies, and the principles on which they should be based, which we in the Australian Labor Party believe are necessary. The first is a need to revitalise existing industries and to restructure up into new activities in manufacturing, in which our country, Australia, has an as yet unutilised advantage, rather than to go on merely restructuring down, as has happened hitherto. We know very well on which areas we do not want to concentrate. The Industries Assistance Commission is telling us about them very readily. We are not learning as readily as we should to which areas our resources should be applied so that new jobs can be created. 
The second principle to which I believe it is very necessary for the Department of Industry and Commerce to apply its mind, as indeed should the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs because of its responsibility for the IAC, the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission, and as should the Department of Productivity also, is that government planning designed to complement market forces in fostering revitalisation and restructuring up is so vital and is preferable to clinging to a belief that unaided market forces will resolve industry's problems. Thirdly, we believe that in this world of change we ought to be anticipating changes in these departments when government applies its policies, not merely reacting to change after it has taken place. So I hope that instituted in these departments will be more programs anticipatory rather than reactive in nature. 
The fourth principle on which the Labor Party would be building its programs for these departments is one of encouraging change by positive means, by carrots, by such things as export market development allowances, which I believe have to be more generous than the existing ones, by industrial research and development allowances, by help from such bodies as the Australian Industry Development Corporation involving themselves in these areas. Those changes have to be encouraged by carrots rather than sticks. 
Hitherto the philosophy has been: 'Let us use Industry Assistance Commission reports as a basis for reduction of tariffs and inevitably resources from one area will end up in another area and new jobs will be created'. That is just not happening. Our unemployment has already reached half a million, and we have no prospect whatsoever at the moment of creating enough jobs to be able to cater for the 130,000 net new people coming into the work force. 
What reaction do we get from the Government to these problems as I have briefly outlined them, and what are the plans for the Department of Industry and Commerce, the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs and the Department of Productivity? I sum them up in this way: These departments, under this Government's guidance, continue to espouse- and the Estimates reflect this-that business stability resulting from the fight against inflation will create the environment necessary for creating jobs and reducing unemployment. I assert categorically that such a policy just will not work. It is not good enough to just sit back and wait for things to happen, hoping that an environment of lower inflation will allow it to happen. I only have to point to the 1930s as an example of low interest rates and low inflation not leading to the necessary increased investment to create new jobs. We are relying far too much on macro-economic policies, which are putting the hd on the economy now and working against the creation of new jobs. 
My second point about the present policies, which I emphasise, is that they display little concern for reversing the trends in the relative size of the manufacturing sector. All of this adds up to the main point that I want to make in the last half minute that is available to me, and that is that there is not enough government involvement in industry and commerce in the way that we would like to see it, in that partnership which we would like to build up. There is no way that the present staff numbers in the Department of Industry and Commerce, for instance, could allow the liaison that we would want. Certainly a start has been made in the Industries Assistance Commission. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  knows that I play my part in this area and welcome the creation of industry advisory councils; but much more of that sort has to be done. 
-My question should be directed to the Acting Minister for Industry and Commerce, but in his absence I ask the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that the 30 per cent devaluation of the Australian dollar in relation to the yen has meant a higher Australian content requirement under the motor vehicle plans than was the intention when the plans were formulated? Is it a fact that the adjustments announced by the Minister yesterday do not offset completely the effects of the 30 per cent devaluation and have left Chrysler Australia Limited and possibly other motor manufacturing companies paying large penalties for factors over which they had no control? 
Is it also a fact that these large penalties may result in a further disastrous loss of employment? Is it true that General Motors-Holden's Ltd and the Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd can now reduce their local content from over 90 per cent to 85 per cent, thus creating more unemployment? Without wishing in any way to support or criticise the changes made yesterday but seeking information, I ask the Prime Minister why the Government has not allowed a full adjustment for the 30 per cent devaluation and why he has allowed the abolition of the reversion control procedures. 
-The main purpose of this Bill is to implement the recommendations of the Remuneration Tribunal as to the salaries and allowances paid to judges and persons of judicial status. There is also an opportunity taken by the Government in this Bill to make an amendment of a technical nature to section 1 7 of the Remuneration and Allowances Act 1973. The Opposition has no objection to the changes made by this Bill. In fact we will go as far as to say that we support it. Due to the lateness of the hour and the desire of the Government to get this Bill through the House I will leave my remarks at that. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-The Opposition supports this amendment. I listened to the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations  (Mr Garland)  carefully and I thought it was perhaps a little ungracious of him not to pay tribute to the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  as the person who actually suggested this amendment at the Legislation Committee stage. Although he was not a member of the Legislation Committee he was able to suggest this amendment at that meeting. I am always full of admiration and bewilderment at the ways of parliamentary counsel. My admiration and bewilderment continued after I learned that the wording suggested by the honourable member for Sturt was: 
precious and semi-precious stones (other than Portland Cement in the form of clinker); 
Perhaps that wording was thought not to be satisfactory at the time. It is now put before the House in the following form: 
precious and semi-precious stones, but does not include Portland Cement in the form of clinker; 
If that change makes so much difference I am surprised and, I repeat, bewildered. 
However, the Legislation Committee's work has borne fruit. I believe the Government has examined what was said at the meeting of the Committee, has thought about it and is now proposing this amendment. I hardly need now to make it explicit that I think that the experiences that we have had with the Legislation Committees to date have been good and that further consideration is given to wording than would otherwise be given. From the number of amendments that the Government has put before the Legislation Committee, it would seem that the exercise has a riveting effect on the Ministers, and their advisers as well, and that after the Bill has been introduced they give further consideration to the wording and use the Legislation 
Committee to make certain changes. I repeat that the Opposition supports this amendment. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this amendment but I wish the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  were present tonight to tell us how he had come to be persuaded that this particular amendment was now necessary. He was the honourable member who moved an amendment to the Government's amendment in the Legislation Committee. As we can see from the  Hansard  of that Legislation Committee, he told us that his representations had come from no less a body than the New South Wales Manufacturers Export Council. That body was quite properly concerned that by using the original wording to which the amendment moved by the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  now returns there would be doubt as to whether the goods were, in fact, moved overseas, which is what we understand the word export' to mean. That is why the right honourable member suggested the words 'the goods are clearly sold for export and are exported'. The point was made that the words contained in this amendment, namely 'the property in the goods passed from that person to a buyer resident outside Australia' do not make it certain that the goods actually go overseas. 
I know that the lawyers in the House will concede that property can pass without the goods being physically transferred. That was the point of the amendment moved by the right honourable member for Lowe. The arguments were well accepted by members of the Legislation Committee. The only argument the Minister has now made in suggesting that we return to the words of the original amendment which he moved on the Legislation Committee but which he was not able to persuade those who were giving their undivided attention to the subject to accept, is that the parliamentary counsel has consulted with those honourable members and persuaded them to accept the Government's original wording. The right honourable member for Lowe is the only one I know off hand who falls into this category. If there are any other honourable members in the House who were of a like mind with the right honourable member for Lowe and who have consulted with the parliamentary counsel, I hope that they will tell us why they are now persuaded by the Government's arguments. The Opposition voted with the right honourable member for Lowe. The person leading for the Opposition at the time was the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  He was not taken into the confidence of the Government and brought to such a conference. 
I am absolutely certain about it. He is very sorry that he cannot be here tonight. He has briefed me- I hope the House will agree that he has done so adequately- on the subject. I am putting the case not only for myself but also for him. I put it strongly because I hope that in the future the same courtesy will be extended not only to government members but also to other honourable members who support a particular amendment. I repeat that we want to be certain that the actual property in the goods is not the only thing that is transferred but that the goods themselves are also transferred before they become subject to grants- to funds from this Parliament from the taxpayers of this nation. The last point I make is to repeat what I said in the Legislation Committee. The word 'buyer' is returned in this amendment. The amendment states: 
. the property in the goods passed from that person to a buyer resident outside Australia. 
I made the point on the legislation Committee that there is no definition of the word 'buyer' in this Bill. This means that any intra-company international transfers between multi-national or transnational companies, whatever we might call them, within the same group will be eligible for an export expansion grant. I hope that the Government is quite clear that these sorts of transfers ought to be the beneficiaries of such grants. I am uncertain whether they should be. I am glad to have the opportunity of raising the matter at this stage as I raised it in the Legislation Committee itself. 
-The Opposition supports this proposal because it fits in with its principles of looking after, with a sense of balance, people in need. Opposition members support this proposal because it extends the life of a very important mining town in a very significant region of our country until that mining town is given life through an expected change in the price paid for copper. This means that, unlike members of the Liberal Party who support the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde),  we are not supporting this Bill in an unprincipled way. I admire the honourable member for Moore for the courage shown in what he has said because he is being true to Liberalism. He has, of course, brought out in this speech tonight a distinct difference between the liberalism which he supports and the interventionist approach which the Government is pursuing and which, for reasons of principle, I am happy to support today along with other members of my party. So we as a party, the Australian Labor Party, can hold our heads up in supporting these funds for this important region and we can be content that we are doing so and following our principles. 
Of course, we are also quite justified in showing up how strange it is that those people who pay lip service to liberalism are not in great numbers here tonight in following their principles. I want to point out that on plenty of occasions similar principles should be followed by people who have an interventionist philosophy, such as I have, to help the people of Western Australia. I would be proud on occasions, of course, to follow those principles in those cases as well. One of those cases could well be in supporting the Premier of Western Australia in his successful attempts yesterday at the Loan Council meeting to get the permission of that Council to borrow funds from overseas for a natural gas pipeline from the Pilbara to Perth. There is no certainty yet that that project will bear up well in a feasibility study. No feasibility study has been done but I think there could well be a good case made out for Penh, which needs that energy and which has the homes and the people ready for the jobs that are to be created to get that natural gas. 
I believe that the honourable member for Moore is supported by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  and the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  in speaking up against the people of Tasmania and suggesting that his own people in Western Australia are being hurt accordingly. He should remember the issue of the natural gas pipeline to Perth and what happened with the Ord River scheme and he should remember that all of these cases following our interventionist approach must be pursued with a sense of balance and a sense of justifying this particular case because of the expected increase in copper prices. 
Across my desk today came a document dated October 1978 from Citibank in the United States of America. It referred to copper prices. I did not know at the time that I would be speaking in this debate. Because the expected price of copper is so related to the justification for these funds in support of the people of Queenstown and the workers in the Mount Lyell company, I want to read the opening paragraphs of the Citibank report on copper prices. They state: 
In the spring of 1974, when the United States realized it was not just about to run out of energy, it suddenly discovered it was running out of pennies. For a time, stores had trouble making change, postage stamps were used as currency, and retail prices often were quoted to the nearest nickel. The reason for the shortage was that, with the price of copper going through the roof, some people were amassing their very own hoards of pennies. They thought it was the smart thing to do. 
That was little more than four years ago. Yet it's hard to recapture the mood of that springtime- and even harder to remember that, back then, pennies seemed to matter. 
This happened four years ago when copper was in extraordinarily short supply. Who is to say that this will not be the story of copper in a year's time? The article continued: 
And it's only quite recently that there have been some signs of a real upswing in demand. In 1977, Free- World consumption of refined copper rose to 6.8 million metric tons from a cyclical low of 5.5 million. Still, last year's improvement in demand was weaker than most forecasters had expected. 
But since early this year, copper prices have been moving steadily upward on the London Metal Exchange. 
In industry circles, of course, there is still disagreement and uncertainty about what will happen to copper prices. This decision, if we can take the word of the Minister, is based on the assumption that the mine will be viable. That is the main reason that the Opposition is pleased to support the Bill. I repeat that we expect the mine to become viable. We want to give support to the people of this significant region of our countrythe people of the mining town of Queenstown. The Labor Government in Tasmania under Premier Doug Lowe must take credit for persuading the conservative Fraser national Government into the agreement given effect in this Bill. We now know what a problem it would have been for the Tasmanian Labor Government to persuade these conservatives. As the honourable member for Moore has suggested, these conservatives are going against their own principles in providing these funds. As I said, the funds are the result of representations from the Tasmanian Labor Government. 
The agreement which is given effect in this Bill provides the necessary funds for the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd to continue operations and for Queenstown to continue its illustrious and colourful existence. We in the Federal Opposition are amazed at the unprincipled way in which so many Liberals are acting in this matter. It needs to go on record time and again, and the people of Australia need to know that every time such a measure as this comes up members of the Liberal Party are going against their own principles in providing funds such as these. What security can others who need funds have in the future? They have no security whatsoever. People need to take that into account when they next consider who would be best governing them in the national sphere. 
The truth is that the generosity of this measure does not for the most part emanate from this Parliament and from this Liberal-National Country Party Government. It emanates from the Tasmanian Labor Government. Certainly the extra $ lm or thereabouts made available to the end of September is, I understand, a grant with no strings attached. This amount was provided in the original Bill. I agree that that amount comes from the national Government. I hope that is so. I believe that the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  will correct me if I am wrong. But the amount of up to $3, 800m to be available to the end of June 1980 which was the subject of the Minister's remarks when he opened this debateabout $ 1.6m is expected to be necessary for the 2 1 month period- will be matched dollar for dollar so generously by the Tasmanian people through their State Labor Government. Small State though it is, Tasmania is matching the amount of up to $3,800m. Part of the Commonwealth contribution is only an interest-free section 96 grant to the Tasmanian Government and it will be repayable from future positive cash flows achieved by the Mount Lyell mine and applied to repayments to Tasmania. I repeat that the Commonwealth contribution is basically a loan, not a grant. The only way the Commonwealth will lose this money is if the mine does not become viable and there is no cash flow with which to repay it. 
When we hear noisy, useless Liberal Federal members from Tasmania trying to pretend that the State Government is not the main force behind this measure we should look at the facts and realise from where the real generosity is coming. It is coming from the people of Tasmania, through their own Government and not through the national Government at all. In other words, the prime movers in this operation are the people of Tasmania themselves and their Labor Government. Well may we ask: Where are the Liberal Federal members from Tasmania? Why have they not persuaded the Fraser Government to be more helpful? Why is the Commonwealth Government providing a loan and not a grant? Why have these fellows not been doing more for their State? They make plenty of noise but when it comes to real action and achieving something for their State we find that they go to water. They are useless when it comes to really helping the people of Tasmania. What they are good at is getting publicity at the expense of their colleagues on their own side. They cross the floor on certain Bills when they know that they will not be responsible for defeating the Government but when it comes to the real job of seeing that the situation of the Tasmanian people is improved and that they are getting a share of the cake from the national Parliament they go to water. From this matter they gain no credit whatever. 
What is needed above all else for Mount Lyell and Queenstown in order to provide the necessary security for the people of that region is higher copper prices. They will be brought about through a more expansionary economic policy both here and abroad resulting in a higher level of economic activity both here and abroad. What do honourable members for Tasmania do about that? I have already explained how they are ratting on their mates on their own side on plenty of occasions to get cheap publicity at home. Where are they when it comes to persuading their own Government to undertake a more expansionary economic policy which might lead to higher copper prices and a better deal for the people of Queenstown and other parts of Tasmania? We do not hear from them. The honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  and the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  are in the chamber. Earlier we heard the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  making noises. The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  is here. But were are they when it matters? Where are they not only when it means getting money in the form of grants rather than loans for the people of Tasmania but also when it matters in achieving a more expansionary economic policy so that we will see higher copper prices and we will have some security for people in that area? 
When it comes to the crunch, honourable members opposite from Tasmania are supporting the Liberal-National Country Party Government, which is responsible for stagnation policies, which is responsible for the poor deal for the pensioners and which is responsible for the lousy health scheme which is being debated around the country now. The Government is responsible for these things. It is time that those honourable members opposite realised that at home they will not get away with their behaviour for ever. They might have the ear of big business in the form of the Hobart  Mercury  and they might be the friends of some wishy-washy people in the Australian Broacasting Commission in Hobart right now. However, the people of southern Tasmania will be fooled some of the time but they will not be fooled all of the time. Now the realisation of the true worth of these honourable members from Tasmania is coming home. The time is overdue to expose these honourable members. I hope that my contribution tonight has done something towards achieving that. 
I concede that what is being done by way of this Bill is being done against the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission. I repeat that, in spite of the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission, this assistance is short term and is predicated on the belief that copper prices will increase. We will be helped enormously in getting that increase in copper prices if we have a more expansionary policy and if the Minister for Finance who is at the table right now, when he goes to meetings of the International Monetary Fund does not preach to the other nations of the world that they should be following the same stagnation policies as we in this country are following but tells them that we should have some reasonable, modest expansion, such as is being suggested and recommended by the Australian Labor Party. 
The assistance that will be provided is based on a number of factors in addition to the main one, which is that the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd will be viable when copper prices achieve a reasonable level. One other principle on which the assistance is based is that a town such as Queenstown, with hundreds of people owning their own homes, should be preserved during this difficult period until viability returns or until some other form of occupation can be introduced into such a depressed area. Ours is about the only country in the world that does not have proper regional industrial policies. Even the small island of Great Britain has specific policies, for instance, for the Newcastle area. In a town such as Queenstown, where people enjoy a quality of life, if copper prices are not going to go up and the mine there is not going to be viable, we must use the intervening period to ensure that industries are placed in that region. If the Government is uncertain about copper prices and about the future of the Mount Lyell company beyond June 1980, it must be the strong recommendation of everyone that the time between now and June 1980 should be used in placing alternative employment opportunities in the town of Queenstown. 
It is worth mentioning also, particularly in view of some remarks made by the honourable member for Moore, that the Mount Lyell company has made reductions in its production costs and is investing up to $1.8m over the next 2 1 months. It cannot see much return from that investment, in spite of what is being put in by the Tasmanian Labor Government and by way of loan from this national Government. So shareholders' funds are being used for the future of the company. It is not a case of a company receiving a rort from the taxpayers in order to pay out dividends in the future. It is a matter of a loan from this Parliament and a grant from the Tasmanian Parliament being provided to keep that company alive, the town of Queenstown alive, and that region of Tasmania alive until copper prices improve. I think that the situation would be intolerable if we did not pursue this course. 
I am glad that the Opposition is able to support this measure. I am even more pleased that we are able to do so in a principled way whereas, as has been shown by the honourable member for Moore, honourable members on the other side of the House are doing it in an unprincipled way. Indeed, in the future any measure such as this, necessary though it might be, will be carried through by the present Fraser Government only if it is not following its own true liberalism principles. 
-The purpose of these Bills is to amend the Sales Tax Acts (Nos. 1 to 9) 1930 to reduce the rate of sales tax on passenger motor vehicles from 27 per cent to 15 per cent. Let me hasten to say that the Opposition supports these nine Bills. The nine Bills are necessary because sales tax is imposed under nine separate Acts, each relating to a different class of transaction. This separation is in order to meet the constitutional requirement that an Act imposing taxation shall deal with only one subject of taxation. Since 1 September 1975, only three sales tax rates have applied in Australia. The lowest rate of  2Vi  per cent applies to goods normally used for household purposes. The highest rate of  21lh  per cent is considered a special rate to cover non-essential goods, whereas the 15 per cent rate is the level applying to all other taxable goods. We are happy to see that passenger motor vehicles are moving from that higher luxury or non-essential goods rate to the- more general 15 per cent rate. The rates of sales tax previously applying to motor vehicles were 15 per cent on commercial vehicles and, as I have already indicated,  2Vh  per cent on private passenger vehicles. The effect of the present Bills will be to place all motor vehicles on the one sales tax rate of 15 per cent. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in the Budget speech on 15 August made only a passing reference to this sales tax cut. He stated: 
We- 
That is the Government- have decided to reduce the rate of tax on motor cars and station wagons from 2714 per cent to the general rate of 15 per cent. 
This means that the price of a new car now costing some $7,000 should be reduced by roughly $530. 
The cost to revenue of this change, after allowance for some likely gains in sales, is estimated to be about $ 155m in 1 978-79 and $ 1 96m in a full year. 
I am happy to note that those who made the estimates were correct in estimating that an increase in sales would result from the reduction in sales tax, although I am unhappy to note that the momentum of that increase in the early months after the Budget has now lessened somewhat. The picture is not as rosy for October as it was for August and September. The Opposition is bound to criticise the way in which the Government has approached the sales tax changes. I repeat that we do not oppose the Bills but we are not happy with the way in which they have been dealt and the way with which the motor vehicle industry generally has been dealt by the present Fraser Government. 
I now illustrate why I make that charge. A closer study of the Bills will show most of the reasons why I make that charge. These Bills illustrate a certain hypocritical approach when we notice that the Government rejected the Opposition's call for precisely this measure less than six months ago. We even raised for discussion in this House a matter of public importance on the issue. I had the pleasure to lead for the Opposition on that occasion. But that is not the only reason why we find this sales tax reduction rather hypocritical. Given the Government's overall stagnation strategy which is deliberately aimed at contracting the Australian economy, we find it out of character that these measures are brought in. I refer those who might question whether my charge about the contracting nature of the Government's economic strategy is correct to the figures in the Budget. Receipts are expected to increase by 1 1 per cent overall whereas expenditure is expected to increase by only something in the nature of 7 per cent to 8 per cent. If we look at the total receipts from the community and compare them with expenditure in the community we have to come to the conclusion that at least the Government has been consistent in pursuing what  Mr W.  C. Wentworth, a former member for Mackellar, dubbed as this stagnation strategy. 
These Bills, together with subsequent policy announcements relating in particular to the motor industry, I assert, illustrate a certain myopic approach by the Government towards the motor vehicle industry. The Opposition advocated that a package of measures be taken to ensure the viability of the industry. We did this when we called for lower sales taxes at a time when Chrysler Australia Ltd in my own State of South Australia was announcing its enormous reduction in employment. A second point that has to be made in this context is that the short term expedient tinkering with the local content plans for the time being has merely brushed the problems under the carpet. So I believe that I am justified in making the assertions that I have made. I now go into further details about these facts which I have just placed before the House. The Opposition for a long time has been calling for substantial permanent sales tax cuts on passenger motor vehicles. Two examples occurred in May this year. Firstly, in a debate on a matter of public importance concerning the motor industry to which I referred earlier I argued as follows:  . . we must have a growing consumer demand for passenger motor vehicles. The only way of getting that growing demand is by the national Government improving consumer demand immediately by reducing sales tax. A reduction to 15 per cent would mean about $600 less being spent on the purchase of a family car. It is urgent that this be done. 
Secondly, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in a speech around that time advocated a substantial and permanent cut in sales tax. He said: 
The 2716 per cent sales tax on motor vehicles in Australia is among the highest anywhere. It can and should be reduced  immediately by half. The saving on a current new car would be S500 to $600. The cost to the Government in lost revenue would be about $200m. 
How much better it would have been for the motor vehicle industry and the level of economic activity generally in Australia if the advice and recommendations of the Opposition last May had been taken rather than waiting until a few months later when so much damage had been done. However, in response to our calls we saw the Government vigorously rejecting the measures which it has now introduced to this Parliament. Two prominent examples come to mind. Firstly, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch),  in an answer to a question without' notice from me on 28 February, said: 
I regret that the honourable gentleman has raised the matter of sales tax. I must say to him, as I said in earlier days when I was Treasurer, that a reduction is not part of Government thinking because of the impact it could have on inflation in Australia and, in a  particular  sense, in relation to Government economic policy, because of the impact it would have on the Budget deficit. 
How much better it would have been if these measures had been taken in February instead of even in May as I suggested earlier. Another example of the Government's earlier attitude leads us to the charge that these measures are hypocritical. In a debate in the House in May the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  said: 
The Leader of the Opposition, on occasions, has claimed that a cost of $250m would be required to halve sales tax. He says that this cost could be easily managed. This is another example of the Opposition's failure to learn from its experience in government ... Is this $250m to be an additional cost to the inflationary budget deficit? If not, where would the Opposition raise this $2 50m? 
We already know what problems this Government is having with the deficit. Yet it can bring in measures such as this now which are totally inconsistent with what the Government said in answer to me in February and in answer to the Leader of the Opposition in May. We are witnessing a complete about-face by the Government on this issue. We have been offered no explanation for this reversal, just an implicit admission perhaps that the Opposition's calls for sales tax cuts were correct after all. Indeed, I assert clearly that these measures are the result of more enlightened thinking from the Opposition than has been shown by the Government. The Government's hypocrisy on this whole issue is compounded by its continuing contractionary budgetary strategy to which I referred earlier. This is evident at two levels: Firstly, at the general level of the economy, with the Government's refusal to stimulate the economy, with its cuts in spending and staff levels and with its imposition of a  Vh  per cent surcharge on personal income tax. That is the effect at the macro level. Let us look now at the micro level. In the motor vehicle industry, as a result of the immediate conversion of all Australian oil prices to import parity levels, we have had a substantial rise in petrol prices. Despite the obvious contradictions in government policies we are given no recognition or explanation of the fact that these policies have been altered. 
-That should be enough to convince even the honourable member for Swan that the charge I make about government hypocrisy is correct. Let me now back up the charge I make about the myopic nature of the Government's policies. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  said that the Government saw its action in reducing sales taxes on passenger motor vehicle's as -   . . providing a significant stimulus to the passenger motor vehicle market by reducing prices and thereby encouraging consumers to purchase motor vehicles. 
This optimism regarding the permanence and magnitude of the effect of the sales tax cuts upon the sales of motor vehicles is short-sighted. Firstly, may I state that the Opposition advocated such cuts as part of a package of policies which included the controlled stimulation of the economy and planning measures designed to ensure the long-term viability of the motor industry. We did not advocate sales tax cuts in isolation but as part of a package. However, the Government has adopted only one aspect of the Opposition's policy package. This, by itself, will result in only limited and temporary improvements in the viability of the industry. Indeed, these limitations are shown in the latest figures. 
New registrations numbered only 51,456 in September, compared with 55,407 in August. Even when seasonally adjusted, September registrations showed only a 6.2 per cent increase over those for August. The fact that there was only an increase in seasonally adjusted terms, not an actual rise, indicates that the sales tax cut has not resulted in an unfettered splash of motor vehicle buying. We may all hope, however, that the introduction of the new Commodore to the Holden range may improve these figures over the coming months. In addition, the minimal increase in the 1979 quota for car imports, from 88,000 units to 90,000, announced last month suggests clearly that the Government itself is not convinced that the Budget cuts in sales tax will prove successful in stimulating demand for more than a short period. That is merely one illustration of the myopic nature of the policy adopted by the Government in introducing these measures in isolation. 
A second illustration of the short-sightedness of the Goverment 's optimism regarding the effect of the sales tax cuts has been evidenced by recent policy pronouncements concerning the motor vehicle industry. It is possible that these measures, by overestimating the effects of sales tax cuts, effected in isolation, may have a disemployment impact upon the industry. They may result in fewer rather than more people being employed. Most important among these announcements have been the changes to local content plans of 18 October 1978. These alterations represented some concessions. The manufacturers- Nissan, Toyota and Chrysler, which are phasing into the local content planhave been given an extended period to do so. I welcome the extension. I am glad to note that, as a result, less duty will be payable by the particular companies and consequently, I hope, there will not be increases in the prices of cars which otherwise would have taken place. 
However, in the meantime dangers are to be seen on the horizon because in the same announcement the Government stated that in the future the non-reversion clause of the local content plans would be abolished. The effect would be that General Motors-Holden and Ford could now abandon, possibly indiscriminately, some local parts makers and find a source for their parts overseas. I am disappointed indeed that the committee which was charged with overseeing this non-reversionary clause has gone out of existence. I believe that at a time when we must move towards a policy of making in Australia parts which are also usable in motor cars overseas- a complementation plan- it would have been very valuable if that committee had continued in existence. Thus, I believe that whilst sales taxes have been reduced, the Government has provided examples of ad hockery in its policy on the motor vehicle industry. That ad hockery comes under the heading of short-term expediency rather than the longer-term plans needed to ensure that there will be proper security in the motor vehicle industry, which is such an important engine to manufacturing industry in this country. 
In conclusion, I say that although the Opposition supports these Bills it does so in the context of emphasising their inadequacy, taken alone. We plead that a good deal more be done to ensure the viability of the motor manufacturing industry and thus preserve the job security of workers therein. The Opposition believes that a manufacturing industry is absolutely essential if we are to get back to anywhere near full employment in this country. It believes, further, that a motor manufacturing industry would provide the essential engine, the motor, for that manufacturing industry to move forward generally. Our fear is that the Government, for its own doctrinaire reasons, may be incapable of providing the positive leadership that is needed to arrive at a comprehensive solution of the problems which still confront the motor vehicle industry in Australia and indeed manufacturing industry generally. Therefore, whilst we support these measures and express our pleasure that sales taxes are being reduced, we are bound to point out that, for the reasons I have indicated, there is something that is hypocritical and something myopic about these measures. 
-The purpose of the main Bill, the Bounty (Metalworking Machine Tools) Bill, is to give effect to the Goverment 's decision, announced on 24 May last, to provide a revised bounty scheme to all sections of the metal-working machine tools industry in Australia. This decision followed an Industries Assistance Commission report sent to the Government back in December 1977. I am sure that those who are in this industry will be glad that even though it is near enough to a year later, at last a Bill is progressing through this House to give effect to that recommendation. In the past, assistance in the form of bounties has been available to only certain sections of the industry. These bounty payments have been made under the Metal Working Machine Tools Bounty Act 1972, and more recently under the Bounty (Drilling Machines) Act 1978. Indeed, the purpose of the other two amending Bills which we are debating in this cognate debate, namely the Metal Working Machine Tools Bounty Amendment Bill and the Bounty (Drilling Machines) Amendment Bill, is to phase out the current schemes so that they can be replaced by the new scheme provided for in what I have referred to as the main Bill. 
Indications of the nature of the industry can be gleaned from the fact that the local manufacturing witnesses at the IAC inquiry employed about 1,400 persons and made up just over 40 per cent of the domestic market. Imports accounted for over 60 per cent of total market sales. The Industries Assistance Commission accepted that the machine tools industry should be maintained at least at its present level because of the defence significance of the industry. To achieve this, of course, there were a number of options open to the Industries Assistance Commission. After a great deal of examination, it recommended that an effective rate of assistance of about 40 per cent to 45 per cent be given to the industry. In particular, it argued for three elements. Firstly, it recommended extending the present bounty scheme to all locally produced machine tools at the rate of one-third of the factory cost of the machine tools for 100 per cent local content, reducing proportionately to zero at 55 per cent of local content. 
The second element of the IAC recommendation was the implementation of an additional, that is a new, bounty at the rate of 25 per cent of the design cost incurred in Australia in the total factory cost. I notice that the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Roger Johnston)  is to follow me in this debate. I am certain that as an engineer he will be happy to support the fact that his fellow engineers in the design field will now be receiving some benefit because design is included in the bounty. Thirdly, the IAC recommended making duty free on 1 July 1979 all imported tools competing with those subject to the bounty. I hasten to say that the Government has not accepted all three of the IAC's recommendations, but I will come to that in a moment. The IAC felt that these measures would be sufficient to maintain and increase current levels of activity in the machine tools industry. Also, the members of the Industries Assistance Commission felt that a general level of assistance to the industry which was neutral across all segments of the industry would provide scope for expansion of lower cost activities and would serve to compensate for any reduction in activity in the high cost standard metal removing machine tools segment, which in its report the IAC said showed 'little prospect of improving its efficiency and did not contribute greatly to the efficiency of industry generally '. 
The Government accepted the first two elements of the IAC's recommendation without any variation whatsoever. The bounties which became operative from the day after the Government's announcement- that is, from 25 May 1978- will cease on 30 June 1984 or such date as is fixed by proclamation. On the basis of the 1976-77 production figures, the bounty payable would have been about $8m, of which the extra bounty on design would have been about $500,000. This compares with a cost of $2.4m under the old scheme in 1976-77. So indeed these measures are generous inasmuch as they represent taxpayers' funds going to subsidise the industry through bounty increasing from $2.4m, on 1976-77 figures, to $8.5m, if the estimates are correct, still in relation to 1976-77 figures. The Government did not accept without modification the third element of the IAC's recommendation, namely, that imported machine tools be duty free from 1 July 1979. Instead, the Fraser Government decided to phase in the duty reduction over a three-year period 'to allow time for local manufacturers to plan and implement adjustments in product ranges without adverse effects on activity and employment'. This decision was put into effect by Customs Tariff Proposal No. 13, which was introduced into the House of Representatives on 24 May 1 978. 
As I indicated earlier, the Opposition does not oppose these Bills. In fact, we welcome the notion of temporary assistance for an important defence industry. However, we see temporary assistance as being only one part of a package of policies designed to improve the efficiency and international competitiveness of our industries. Other essential parts are, firstly, a controlled stimulus to the economy to increase consumer demand for the products of industry and, secondly, the institution of positive industry policy programs designed to encourage the revitalisation of existing industries, the restructuring up into new industries, and positive manpower policy programs to increase the mobility of workers through training, retraining and job search subsidies. We assert that there should be such a comprehensive policy package, not just one relying on bounties or on the Industries Assistance Commission putting out one grass fire here and another one there. If a comprehensive package such as this were adopted we could reasonably expect industry to improve its efficiency and competitiveness while receiving temporary assistance and so be able to go it alone when the temporary assistance expired. 
However, all we see this Government doing is providing the temporary assistance in isolation. We do not see that package, that longer term policy, that vision which is required. The only time that this country has vision is when the Labor Party takes over. It had vision in 1972, and a lot of wonderful new policies were introduced to this country, not all of which, happily, have been obliterated by this Government, in spite of many attempts to do so. A lot of the great policies have been obliterated but not all of them. The country had vision at the time John Curtin took over. He had the vision of getting on with the job of pursuing the war successfully to its conclusion. It had vision after the war in Chifley 's day when he set about the task of restructuring this country. This task was carried out so successfully that we had the wonderful base on which the full employment of the 1950s and the 1960s was built. Now, of course, vision is lacking. We do not have longer term policies. We have merely one-off temporary measures such as the one we are debating tonight. 
It seems to be the Government's naive hope that business stability will result from an enforced lowering of inflation rates. It also hopes that the magical market forces, in consequence of the policies of stagnation and the lowering of inflation rates, will bring about an upturn in economic activity and an improvement in the viability of Australian industry. This is nonsense. Not only is this chain of reasoning- I hesitate to call it logic- unconvincing but also, it has been invalidated by the experience of the past three years. It seems inevitable that the Government's reliance upon temporary assistance alone will mean that the long term prospects for industry will comprise a series of short term measures in which panic efforts to sustain industries struggling unnecessarily will inevitably dominate. It seems likely that this Government will continue to be preoccupied with short time palliatives offering little positive leadership to ensure the long term viability of Australian industry. We in the Opposition are optimistic that the right package of" policies, coupled with an appropriate recognition of the structural problems within Australian industry, can get our economy back to full employment. However, our temporary, reluctant pessimism is associated with the limited and misguided nature of the Fraser Government's policies. 
Until the present Government recognises the error of its ways and adopts the strategy which the Opposition is advocating, it will only lead the economy deeper into recession. Could it be that at last there is a chink in this strategy of seeking salvation through stagnation? I refer to the Loan Council meeting on Monday. Could it be that proud men will not admit publicly that their stagnation policies have been a failure but that they will do so privately? Instead of coming into the Parliament with vision and getting on with programs, in particular public works programs, they will quietly allow the States to do this. Unfortunately, there are costs in doing it that way. The States will borrow funds abroad at a higher rate of interest than the rate at which a national Government could borrow the same funds. 
I would have hoped that the honourable member for Hotham would have had the education to know exactly why. It is because a national government has a greater credit rating overseas. Even though the honourable member has been a member of the Parliament for only a short time and may not have had the opportunity to visit the capital markets of London and New York and to talk to the bankers as I have done, I would have hoped that he would have read enough in the business pages of the  Australian Financial Review  or any of the other major metropolitan newspapers of this country to know that the overseas credit rating of a national Government will allow it to borrow funds at a far cheaper rate than can the individual States for their own separate schemes. Of course that will be more expensive. Who will pay? The consumers, the ordinary Australians, will pay the extra costs. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, you come from South Australia. You will know how pleased we all are on a bipartisan basis that the Redcliff proposal is one of the successful projects for funds through the Loan Council meeting. But I am sure that you will deplore with me the fact that those funds will cost more to be borrowed abroad by our State government than they would have if the national Government had borrowed the money as national governments have done hitherto and then allowed the States to use that money. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Government of the Peoples 'Republic of China insists on balancing trade bilaterally. 
If so, what extra imports does he expect us to be taking from China in return for the extra imports he expects us to sell to that country. 
Is it a fact that the previous history of negotiations concerning Qantas flights to China is a pessimistic story and that there is little likelihood of such flights being arranged. 
Was he embarrassed by the news item about possible Peking flights filed by the journalists persuaded to accompany him presumably seeking to justify their trips as well as his; if not, why not. 
-My question is addressed to the Prime Minister in anticipation of a response which the Leader of the Opposition will give next Sunday to his broadcast which was made last Sunday night. Did the Prime Minister say in his address to the nation that business confidence is returning? Is he aware of the results of the September survey of the Confederation of Australian Industry and the Bank of New South Wales which showed that a smaller proportion of respondents expected an improvement in the general business situation than in the previous quarter? Further, how does he reconcile his comment with the results of the latest Australian Chamber of Commerce/National Bank of Australia quarterly business survey which showed a slow-down in trading activity and a fall in the proportion of firms expecting to increase investment? On what basis did he make his assertion? Is he comparing the degree of business confidence now with the level one year or two years ago? Generally, how on earth does he justify that assertion? 
-The purpose of the Science and Industry Research Amendment Bill is twofold: Firstly, to redefine and to broaden the functions of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and, secondly, to provide a new organisational structure for its direction and control. These amendments to the Science and Industry Research Act 1949 were foreshadowed in the ministerial statement made on 1 1 May this year, which statement is also the subject of this debate. The Bill is based upon the Government's decision on the recommendations of the report following the independent inquiry into the CSIRO, which inquiry became known as the Birch Committee inquiry. That Committee commenced work in November 1976 and its report was tabled in Parliament on 6 October 1977. As I indicated earlier, we learned of the Government's attitude on 1 1 May 1978. 
Indeed, the Government seems to have accepted the need to make most of the changes recommended by the Birch Committee. For instance, clause 6 of the Bill sets out the revised functions of the CSIRO. The important provisions include, firstly, an overall purpose in research for the benefit of Australia, its industry, community and national objectives; secondly, a definite role in the application and utilisation of research results; thirdly, international liaison in this important field of scientific research; and, lastly, the establishment and award of fellowships. Clause 7 of the Bill establishes new arrangements to deal with the direction, management, staffing and financing of the CSIRO. 
The Opposition is not opposing this Bill. In fact, we commend the Government for the review arrangements which it has made. However, this is not to say that the Bill is without flaws, nor should this be taken to mean that we in the Opposition are happy with the Government's policy towards research and development in Australia- far from it, as will be seen as I progress. Indeed, it is my intention to concentrate for most of my time on the weaknesses in the approach of the Government, as we know it at this time, to industrial research and development. As shadow Minister for Industry and Commerce, I am leading in this debate tonight because research and development is so important to Australian industry, to its restructuring and to the provision of new jobs. 
Before I go any further I wish to speak about the paramount importance we in the Opposition place on research and development. The long term viability of manufacturing in Australia requires a high level of modern technology and of technological innovation. Such innovation leads to greater efficiency and better utilisation of resources. It leads to new and improved products and processes, all of which are essential for the maintenance of international competitiveness of Australian industries. If there is one thing on which we all agree it is that Australian industry has to become internationally competitive, not only so that we can sell our products abroad and get the economies of scale by means of the longer runs which come from exporting but also so that we can compete with imports into this country at a lower rate of protection. It is extraordinary how lacking we as a nation have been in innovation. I assert that this applies to our Australian industries. 
That situation is such a contrast to that pertaining to the man on the land who, as those of us who have been brought up in the countryside know, will turn his hand to anything. Indeed, the innovation on Australian farms and of Australian farmers is enormous. Yet an attitude exists in Australian industry that we must leave research and development to those overseas. In 
Australian industries too few people are taking punts on research and development. Certainly, too few entrepreneurs are taking advantage of existing research to create new industries. It is up to government- certainly it would be a function of a Labor government- to encourage both research and development on the one hand and the entrepreneurial activity arising out of that research and development on the other hand. 
Widely divergent sources agree that industrial research and development is insufficient in Australia. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development has strongly urged Australia to increase its industrial research and development efforts. The same conclusion was reached by the Jackson Committee which inquired into policies for the development of manufacturing in Australia. The report of the Australian Science and Technology CouncilASTEC as it is called- concluded in its report of June this year as follows: 
. industrial research and development is not strong in this country and for many years we have depended to a great extent on imported product and process technology. 
Whilst Australian companies recognise the importance of industrial research and development, they often find it difficult to provide the necessary finance from their own resources. Industrial research and development is expensive, particularly because development costs often greatly exceed the cost of research. Moreover, the time before which economic return for research and development can be expected is usually about five to 10 years. The net result is that few Australian companies are willing and financially able to undertake research and development on possible innovations unless the risk element is small. It is clear that so-called free enterprise alone has not been able to provide an adequate basis upon which internationally competitive industries might develop in Australia. Those who examine this whole field rationally and objectively must come to the conclusion that government involvement is required and is vital. Thank goodness for the CSIRO because it has provided that government involvement in this very important field. 
Basic involvement by the national Government in research and development generally has been, of course, through the CSIRO. But it has also been through the defence laboratories and through academic institutions. Expenditure in these areas now exceeds $350m per annum. The allocation to the CSIRO is about $140m. However, there have been limitations to the contribution which the CSIRO has been able to make to industrial research and development. The basic weakness has been the Organisation's lack of attention to the development stage in the research and development process. Until now the CSIRO has been fundamentally concerned with basic research. 
There is a feeling among people with whom I mix that perhaps this is wrong for such a small country as ours with only 14 million people; that we ought to be relying more on larger countries for basic research, and that we should be much more proficient at applying that basic research for our own needs in industry, not only manufacturing industry but also primary production industry. I did put this question, for instance, to the  chairman  of ASTEC the other day and he told me that indeed there was need for basic research in any country in order to stimulate the research community generally if it was to have the applied research required for its particular needs. Perhaps we should be looking at the proportion going into basic research and the proportion going into applied research, realising that the basic research is a field of larger more developed economies with larger populations than our own. 
There is a big jump from this basic research to marketing a finished product or a process. That jump of course is the applied research. This development stage typically consumes about 80 per cent of the resources necessary to take an idea from its inception to a finished product. A further problem was that the criterion employed by CSIRO has been scientific excellence. Therefore, research activity did not have to relate to market need. This contrasts with the Japanese experience where they have contributed almost nothing to basic technology, but have been very successful in using the findings of international basic research. Japan, as we all know, has an enormous economy compared to our own, yet I believe- I cannot prove it because I do not have the figures before me, but they should be worth researching- that if one looked at the proportion going to basic research vis a vis applied research and development in a country like Japan and compared it with what we are doing here, one would find less basic research being done in Japan per capita than in this country. That is ridiculous because Japan has the resources, the spare resources, to put into that basic research. 
We have a cognate debate. The whole purpose of this Bill- not only the statement about CSIRO- is to widen the purposes of CSIRO into the industrial field as well. 
asked the Prime Minister the following question, without notice, on 19 October 1978: 
My question should be directed to the Acting Minister for Industry and Commerce, but in his absence I ask the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that the 30 per cent devaluation of the Australian dollar in relation to the Yen has meant a higher Australian content requirement under the motor vehicle plans than was the intention when the plans were formulated? Is it a fact that the adjustments announced by the Minister yesterday do not offset completely the effects of the 30 per cent devaluation and have left Chrysler Australia Limited and possibly other motor vehicle manufacturing companies paying large penalties for factors over which they had no control? 
Is it also a fact that these large penalties may result in a further disastrous loss of employment? Is it true that General Motors-Holden's Ltd and Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd can now reduce their local content from over 90 per cent to 85 per cent, thus creating more unemployment? Without wishing in any way to support or criticise the changes made yesterday but seeking information, I ask the Prime Minister why the Government has not allowed a full adjustment for the 30 per cent devaluation and why he has allowed the abolition of reversion control procedures? 
I thank the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  for his detailed response to the issues raised in the Legislation Committee. We are still finding our way as to how best to deal with matters before legislation committees and indeed, I might add, to deal with matters arising from legislation committees. I am sure that the Minister will concede that, if there had been time, it would have been of great advantage to me if I had had advance notice of his responses to the various matters raised. I mention that at this stage not with any feeling of resentment or of in any way being cross with him, but merely in the hope that we will all examine how best to deal with legislation committees and with matters arising from legislation committees. 
Within the past quarter of an hour I have had delivered to me details of a proposed amendment. It is proposed that this amendment will be moved during the consideration of the next Bill, the Trade Practices Amendment Bill (No. 2), which will be looked after by my colleague, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  I misread the amendment. I was expecting that at least one amendment would have arisen from the matters raised by the very learned and hard working members of the Legislation Committee on this Trade Practices Amendment Bill. Apparently that is not to be so. 
We will be examining in greater detail in  Hansard  what the Minister has said so that we can come up with a more considered response next time a similar Bill is before the House of Representatives. In the meantime, I merely thank the Minister for looking at the report of the Legislation Committee and making a detailed response to it. I trust that that response covers all of the matters raised by the Legislation Committee. 
Report adopted. 
-Has the Treasurer noted in a prominent article in the  National Times  last weekend the allegation that allowable taxation deduction claims have been made successfully for losses by misappropriation in two companies during the year ended 30 June 1977 amounting to $71,256.1 1 in one case and $178,775.60 in the other? Has he noted that these amounts were not allowed as taxation deductions in the years in which the alleged misappropriations took place? Has he also noted that the principal accounting officer of the companies, who apparently signed the returns, is on public record as saying: 
I have not admitted that I have in any way, nor has my father, misappropriated funds. What I have said is that there is money being lent . . . 
As this matter affects the public purse and the amounts of tax payable by us all, will he institute an investigation to ensure that the claims have been properly made and the deductions properly allowed? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Did he note in the question that I put to the Treasurer and the answer given by the Treasurer, the evidence that there is a public involvement as well as a public concern and interest relating to the group of companies over which he has de facto control? Is it a fact that misappropriation taxation deductions have been claimed successfully amounting to $71,256.1 1 in the case of Allan Walsh Pty Ltd and $178,775.60 in relation to Allan Walsh (Hornsby) Pty Ltd? When did this first come to his notice? Is it - 
-On behalf of the Opposition I welcome the fact that the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  has made this statement about his Department. That is not to say that we agree with every word of the statement or every emphasis that he has put on choosing options for his Department. This Department focuses, if only in a minimal way, on some medium and long term planning and thinking about the needs of our economy. The Opposition welcomes this but regrets that it has been done only in the most minimal way. I am bound to point out that dominating the Government is the thinking that the medium and long terms are merely a series of short terms. This is the thinking in the Treasury Department and among most Liberals. It is good to see that at least the Minister for Productivity and his Department are seeking to do something about the medium and long term problems of the country. The second major principle on which the thinking of the Department seems to me to be built is that it should intervene in the private sector for the benefit of the community generally. It is doing this as we in the Labor Party would want to do it- almost exclusively in a co-operative way, seeking the cooperation of the employers and employees with the Government. It is good to see that this principle is being applied by the Department of Productivity for the benefit of the community. These characteristics commend themselves to Australian Labor Party members. We believe in planning and in that partnership between the public and private sector to which I have alluded. It is in that way that the community generally will get the greatest benefits. It fits in with our philosophy completely. 
However, the fact that a statement such as this has been made this afternoon inevitably raises some questions in our minds. Why has this statement been made by this Minister when similar statements have not been made, for instance, by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  when an enormous amount of work needs to be done in the field of man power planning and training which is very much related to this subject? Why has the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  not made a similar statement relating, for instance, to the Prices Justification Tribunal, the report of which he brought down in the Parliament today with enormous implications for us ali? The suspicious mind which I am bound to have in my job tells me that perhaps the Minister and his Department are under some sort of attack. If that is so, I place on record that we are on his side. We believe that a little is better than nothing. 
The Opposition would prefer to have a department of economic development based on the existing Treasury Department which is where the power lies. The short term decisions of Treasury dominate almost everything that is being done in government for the benefit of our community. We believe that the Treasury Department ought to have a division focusing on the medium and long terms. The emphasis should not be only on the engineering and technological processes; the emphasis should not be with the Department of Productivity; it should be wider than that. It should be on economic issues, not just engineering issues. However, I repeat that a little is better than nothing. We want to see this Department survive. There may not be a need for it to be a separate department, but while it provides an excuse for the Minister for Productivity to be in the Ministry I am happy to support its retention as a separate department. I hope that we get more statements from him on this subject than we have had hitherto. 
I hope that he is getting the support of his back bench on this issue. Frankly, the principles on which his Department is based fly in the face of liberalism. Liberals do not believe in interfering in the private sector. The Department of Productivity is properly and, I believe, tactfully doing just that for the benefit of the community. We in the Labor Party support that as I have already indicated. Liberals do not even believe in giving aid for such projects as keeping alive the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd on the west coast of Tasmania, or so we hear, from a great number of them in the Parliament. I pay tribute to those who have spoken up for true liberalism. When the Government interferes as the Department of Productivity is doing or when it gives aid as the Opposition believes it should, to keep alive the mining industry in Tasmania that is not true liberalism. I pay tribute to those who stick to their philosophy and speak out against these things. I wonder whether some Liberals would like to speak out today for liberalism and against the attitude of the Department of Productivity. I believe that many would like to do so, but I am glad that they are being muzzled at present and that we are hearing instead from the Minister for Productivity about a lot of the good things that he is doing. 
Senior Ministers are showing signs of leaving everything to market forces in spite of the disruption this will mean to the motor industry. I am now referring, of course, to the statement made recently to the Federation of Automotive Products Manufacturers by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  who seems to be adopting completely the market oriented, Industries Assistance Commission approach. Another statement in similar vein was made by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. At present it is good to hear the alternative attitude being put in support of reasonable interference and intervention by a department such as the Department of Productivity in the affairs of the private sector to achieve that partnership and cooperation which is so vital if we are to increase our standards of living, achieve international competitiveness and all those things which are so vital to improve the standard of living of our people and to arrive at full employment. 
I hope indeed it does not mean that the Minister and his Department are under attack because of the fact that we have had such a statement as this one. If it does mean there is a struggle going on, I hope he wins it. I hope that in spite of its flying in the face of liberalism we will have more of this sort of thing going on because it is for the benefit of the community. I want to say something about the details of the statement itself and point out just how so much of what is in the statement does indeed follow the principles that I have been laying down as part of the Labor Party's alternative policy on manufacturing industry in general. Before doing that, I say that although so much of what is in this statement is good, there are serious omissions that I would like to draw to the Minister's attention. 
I believe it is vital for his Department to be the one to take the initiative to lay down the social guidelines that are absolutely vital in introducing technology to our community. We have the terrible fact that there is growing unemployment in our community. We realise that a lot of this is brought about by the need for more technology in order to achieve greater international competitiveness. But this should be seen in the context of the extraordinary situation of employment being penalised by payroll tax on the one hand and investment in machinery being encouraged by investment allowances on the other hand; that is just one factor that his Department ought to be drawing to people's attention so that we can redress that imbalance and, at the same time, so that we can lay down the social guidelines on introducing the technology to ensure that there is not such growing unemployment continuing in future years as we have had under the Fraser Government. Therefore, we need economic guidelines in addition to social guidelines in introducing this technology. 
We accept that a lot of the technology, the new machinery, is absolutely vital if we are going to be internationally competitive, if those particular industries are to stay alive and keep the employment that they already generate. We accept that that is so in many cases but in other cases there is introduction unnecessarily; for instance, I am referring to the introduction of small computers in my own occupation- prior to coming to this Parliament of being a public accountant, and this has not necessarily meant that there has been any international competitiveness. What it has meant is that a lot of people who may otherwise be in employment are not now in employment because of the really rather extraordinary stimulus given to the introduction of those computers by the investment allowance unnecessarily applying to them. So there has to be more balance than there is at present in this whole field. I would like the Minister's Department to take a lead in ensuring that there is that greater balance and not to assume that any introduction of technology is good for the community. A lot of it is vital, but not all of it. A lot of it is ensuring that fewer and fewer people are employed. The Australian Labor Party would not condone that in any way. 
I turn to some of the principles that I have been outlining in relation to the Australian Labor Party's thinking in this whole area to show how the Department does fit in with them and I would mention first the pro-manufacturing stance of the Department of Productivity. It rejects the drift towards the Industries Assistance Commission's belief that high assistance manufacturing industries have fewer opportunities of becoming economically efficient and internationally competitive. The Labor Party does not believe that is so. We believe that a lot of these industries such as textiles and clothing have a future; certain parts of them have a magnificent future so long as they are revitalised. The Minister's Department is doing excellent work in helping to ensure this revitalisation. I do not like talking about structural adjustment as I think the Minister did in his paper. As a progressive thinker I would like him to join with me in getting rid of that phrase from our vocabulary because I do not believe there is any need for us to adjust out of certain industries. There is a place for every one of the existing industries in our economy. 
However, we must ensure that there is revitalisation within industries. These industries need not necessarily go on making every line that they are making now; they want to specialise and to have a look at the export opportunities to get the economies of scale. Structural adjustment conjures up in people's minds getting out of that area altogether. We have already got out of enough areas. This Government is responsible for our not having a shipbuilding industry and has put the final nail in the coffin of the electronics industry and many others. Enough is enough. We want to stay in those industries that we are in now, not because we just want to protect them for the sake of protection but because there is a role for them. One of the processes and aims of the Department of Productivity is helping the firms in those particular industries to revitalise. 
I could go on and show how Labor's attitudes and policies are helped time and time again by what is happening in this Department. However, I want to end on a note relating to the National Productivity Year and strike a word of warning. First we want a National Employment Year. I think there is great danger in expecting a wide community acceptance of productivity until we get to full employment. We believe that Labor's programs will help to get us back to full employment. Certainly we have to get better productivity along with that. I believe we can think in terms of a National Productivity Year once we are somewhere near that full employment but not while some of that increased productivity is at the expense of employment. I congratulate the Minister in bringing down the statement. I cannot agree with all the emphasis but I hope the Department survives. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Connolly)  adjourned. 
I have four amendments to the Schedule to the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2). I explain immediately that it is only because of a wish to cooperate with the Government Whip that we have not called for a division on the motion that this Bill be read a second time. I hope that that has been recorded more than once now. I take no objection to the stand taken by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles),  but he should not have reacted the way he did, nor should other honourable members on the Government side of the chamber have reacted the way that they did when I made it clear for the record why the Opposition was not calling for a division on the motion that the Bill be read a second time. We are against all of this legislation. We plan to divide the Schedule into four sections. First of all, I move: 
Omit the following: 
-The purpose of the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill ( No. 2 ) 1978 is to enact the excise tariff alterations introduced into the House at an earlier time by Excise Tariff Proposals Nos 2 and 3 following the Budget Speech. These proposals altered excise duties on beer, spirits, manufactured tobacco products and crude oil. The Opposition has already indicated that it intends to oppose this legislation. The alternative budget brought down by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  promised that we would, if we had the opportunity, turn around these particular measures. The purpose of the second Bill, the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill, is to enact formally the tariff changes made since May 1978 in Customs Tariffproposals Nos 13 to 29. The Opposition will not oppose the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill although there is one part of the 
Bill on which we have serious disagreement with the Government. 
I will deal with the second Bill first. As I stated in May this year when speaking on the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 1) 1978, 1 am of the strong opinion that it is time to alter the procedures by which Parliament considers tariff changes. As the procedures stand at the moment, there is little opportunity to scrutinise each individual tariff proposal since custom has it that the debate is usually adjourned and never resumed. When Customs Tariff Amendment Bills are periodically introduced to incorporate individual tariffproposals it is virtually impossible to debate the various tariff changes for a number of reasons. Firstly, the debate sometimes takes place more than six months after the actual changes have been implemented. Secondly, the Bills include a number of widely different proposals. For example, this Bill covers, among other things, such commodities as ball bearings, brooms and brushes, carpets, domestic refrigerating appliances, orange juice and light commercial and four wheel drive vehicles. The third reason for taking this attitude on the Bill is that some of the proposals increase tariff levels. For example, this Bill includes increases in the tariff on ball bearings, insulators, light commercial and four wheel drive vehicles, carpets and carbon coated film, whereas others involve tariff decreases, for example, power operated drilling machines, vices and certain products in the printing industry. 
There is a fourth reason why it is impossible to debate this Bill properly at this late stage. Some proposals involve the Government's acceptance of recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission or the Temporary Assistance Authority- for example, those proposals covering orange juice, hosiery, undergarments, carpets and so on- whereas others involve the complete or partial rejection of such advice. A number of heterogeneous measures are included in the one Bill which means that it is almost impossible to debate them in the way in which we should debate such measures in the Parliament. There is yet another reason. Some customs duty increases on drink, such as beer, brandy, rum and whisky and also tobacco products of various kinds arising from the Budget are included in this measure. If we could be certain of upsetting those customs duties we would do so but, as I have explained, it is almost impossible to drag out meaningfully one part of the Bill. If we could be certain of upsetting the increases in the charges in the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) it would, of course, be logical for us to drag out those parts of this Bill relating to customs duties on the same imported products and oppose them. 
These sorts of procedures regarding tariff changes may have been satisfactory during the 1950s and 1960s when tariff adjustments were part of a broadly accepted strategy based on protecting Austraiian industry from import competition and fostering import replacement. However, this is no longer the norm for industry policy and tariff adjustments are no longer accepted on face value. Parliament deserves the right and should be expected to give greater scrutiny to tariff changes. The Government should recognise its responsibility to Parliament on this matter. I said much the same as this six months ago in a similar debate. To his credit, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  has recognised the need for change. He wrote to me on the subject. I thank him publicly for noting what I had to say on the last occasion. He wrote to me in the following terms: 
Following your comments the matter was again raised with Parliamentary Counsel, this time in respect of the systems used in other Parliaments which adopt the Westminster system. Parliamentary Counsel was unable to assist in this direction; therefore I have asked my department to obtain from the Australian Customs Representatives in London, New York and Auckland details of procedures used to effect tariff changes by the relevant administrations in the United Kingdom, Canada and New Zealand. 
On receipt of the information the matter will be further examined, in consultation with Parliamentary Counsel, and I will keep you informed of the developments. 
I remind the Minister of that promise in the hope that we may be able to do something about it and debate these measures more satisfactorily in the future. Basically, I believe that after his statement on each tariff proposal we need, say, 48 hours to study the proposal. The Opposition spokesman should then be allowed to open a short debate of, say, one hour on that proposal. As it is so unsatisfactory to debate such important matters in the way we debate them at present, I hope that those in charge of the business of the House will find the time to allow us one hour in which to debate each proposal separately. I hope that the Minister will have another look at the problem and take my proposal to the Government so that we can do better next time. 
As I noted earner, the Opposition opposes all aspects of the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2). Clauses 2 and 3 in the Schedule alter upwards the excise duties on beer, spirits and tobacco products. Clause 4 increases excise duties on stabilised crude petroleum oil. In conjunction with the Excise Aa, this clause will have the effect of achieving import price parity in accordance with the Government's decision announced in the Budget Speech. A more detailed consideration of clause 4 and the whole question of import price parity has been given by my colleague, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  on previous occasions. Basically, we believe that now is not the time to impose these increased charges on the Australian public. I will concentrate on our objections to that part of the Bill which increases excise duties on beer, spirits and tobacco products. These measures were part of the 1978-79 Budget-a Budget designed to penalise the poor, a Budget totally inappropriate in concept for the circumstances that this nation faces today. For a typical worker earning about $200 a week, this measure was one of a series of measures which took away about $ 12 a week. In particular, the increase in excise duties enabled by clause 3 of this Bill means an average increase of around $2 for cigarettes and drinks. 
In Labor's alternative Budget as I mentioned earlier, the Leader of the Opposition made it clear that the excise increases on beer, spirits and cigarettes would be removed. In another part we also made it clear that we would be turning round the other part of the proposals- that relating to crude oil. In fact, Labor would do away with most of the increases announced in this Budget and would aim for a controlled expansion in Government expenditure in order to reduce the grave unemployment that is afflicting this country at the present time. So, this measure was designed to have a contractionary effect on the economy in general via an erosion of the aggregate level of consumer spending. This by itself is reason enough for the Opposition to reject this element of the Bill. 
However, I wish to finish by raising some of the particular problems which the increase in excise duties has imposed on the Austraiian brandy industry. Figures produced by the South Australian Department of Agriculture have shown that sales of Austraiian brandy can be expected to fall by at least 40 per cent as a result of the rise in price to the consumer because of the 85 per cent increase in the excise level. In addition, it is expected that 15,000 more tonnes of surplus grapes will be left to rot on the vines. Not only will the grape growers lose significant amounts of income, as will the Commissioner of Taxation, but there will be negative multiplier effects upon the processing and bottling sections of the industry, providing less employment and less tax revenue. Let me emphasise, however, the strong possibility of the measure being counterproductive. Less revenue will be raised because of the lower demand for brandy in our community because of the increased price. That is the indication from all the sources that I have been able to tap to date. I believe that the Government is extraordinarily foolish in continuing with this measure. The Government has failed to act on the pleas of the brandy manufacturing industry in Australia. 
The statement made by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs in his second reading speech on this Bill that the Government is 'concerned with the position of Australian brandy producers' is merely crocodile tears. His only responses to the industry and its pleas were that he envisaged offsetting benefits to the grape growers associated with a consequent swing to the consumption of wine, and that the time to consider further the position of the brandy industry would be in the context of an upcoming or expected report by the Industries Assistance Commission on potable spirits. It is likely that delaying action on the brandy industry until after some future IAC report will only see the Government trying to make two wrongs into a right. Instead of keeping excise duties on brandy lower and enabling the phasing down of assistance to the industry as the industry becomes more internationally competitive, we will probably see the Government increasing assistance levels in an attempt to undo what it has done that is so wrong in this Budget. 
More importantly, however, the Government's view that any consequent increases in wine sales will offset any detrimental effect on grape growers needs to be questioned very seriously. If these excise duties were the only tax changes made in the Budget, then such an offsetting change in consumption patterns might occur. However, the Budget includes increases in personal income tax and increases in the prices of cigarettes and petrol, all of which will mop up any consumer demand that might have been available to spend on wine. So much for the Minister's comment in the second reading speech that 'the Budget . . . provided no new impost on Australian wine'. If wine sales increase enormously, then we can bet our bottom dollar that the next Fraser Government impost will be on wine itself. That is the record of the Government so far. 
Even if, in spite of all possibilities, wine sales were to increase, this would not help the majority of producers with the present surplus of wine grapes. This surplus is concentrated in particular types- for instance, doradillos- where there is no demand elsewhere, other than mainly in this brandy area. No variety- that I know of- that is used for brandy is particularly suitable for making quality table wine. Perhaps the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles),  if he speaks in this debate, could confirm or deny that this is so. 
If he believes that the surplus grapes that might otherwise be used in brandy can be used elsewhere, as it seems the honourable member for Sturt believes, then let the honourable member for Wakefield tell the House that that is so and I will be very glad to convey his message to the people in his district, as I will be conveying the message of the honourable member for Sturt in this area to the district represented by the honourable member for Wakefield. 
For the sake of the Austraiian economy as a whole, as well as for the brandy producers of Australia, these new excise duties should be repealed. We in the Opposition are unable to accept the Government's reasoning, if that is the right word, for the particular increases in this Bill. We shall oppose the motion for the second reading. Because of the lateness of the hour and the business before the House, we will be opposing the motion for the second reading on the voices. However, we shall then take the Bill to the Committee stage and we shall test whether there is any credibility among Government members, particularly in relation to the brandy industry, by singling out the various parts of the Schedule- the parts for beer, the parts for brandy, the parts for other spirits and the parts for tobacco. We shall vote on them separately. If there is any indication from any honourable member- for instance, from Queensland- that he wants to oppose that part of the Schedule relating to rum, we will see that it goes to a division to enable those Government members to show their credibility and honesty of purpose to that effect. I shall certainly be taking the 'brandy' part of the Schedule to a vote at the Committee stage. I will be interested to see how many South Austraiian members- as South Australia is the State so severely affected by this measure, as it relates to brandy- will cross the floor and vote with us on that part of the measure. 
I once again remind the House that the Opposition opposes all of the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2). We certainly oppose that part of the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 4) which relates to customs duty increases on the very things that are being increased in price through the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2 ); but we will not be singling out that part of the 
Bill for opposition. We will not oppose that particular Bill. 
I move: 
Omit from the Schedule amendments to sub-item 2 (a) to Sub-item 2 (c) inclusive. 
I draw to the attention of the Committee that these sub-items relate to brandy. Sub-item 2 (A) relates to brandy and seeks to increase the tariff by $8.54 per litre of alcohol. Sub-item 2 (B) relates to blended brandy and seeks to increase the tariff by $8.54 per litre of alcohol. Sub-item 2 (C) relates to fruit brandy and seeks to increase the tariff by a similar amount per litre of alcohol. 
I think that the explanation by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  was the most extraordinary explanation that could be given for supporting the Government in this matter. I noticed that the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  referred to his remarks as 'petty'. I would go further and say that they were extraordinarily weak. If anything, it can be shown that in the disloyalty to South Australia of the honourable member for Sturt he has also been woolly-minded. 
What is happening is that there is an increase in demand for wine at the present time. The reaction of the Government to this will be: How unfair this demand is compared with the demand for other drinks, particularly beer. As I said in my speech during the second reading debate, next we will find that an increased impost will be placed on wine. How the honourable member for Sturt can go through the convolutions which arrive him at a position where he can suggest that opposition to this amendment which I have moved would draw a further tax on wine, I leave the Committee to judge. But I cannot understand his reasoning. I am sure that other members of the Government parties and of the Opposition cannot understand it either. So I have moved that amendment to test the feelings of the Committee on this increased impost on brandy. 
by leave- I move: 
Omit from the Schedule amendments to sub-item 2 (d) to sub-item5 (c) inclusive. 
Omit from the Schedule amendments to paragraph 6 (a) ( 1 ) to the end of the Schedule. 
-If the honourable member were taking an interest in this Bill he would know that they have been circulated. I have a copy available for the honourable member. The first of the amendments I have moved relates to page 3 of the Schedule. It seeks to omit from the Schedule amendments to sub-item 2 (D) to subitem 5 (C). I indicate for the benefit of those honourable members who would like to know what that amendment is about that it relates to the increase in excise per litre of alcohol on whisky, blended whisky, rum and other spirits. I would have moved this amendment separately if the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  had indicated to me that he was prepared to cross the floor in relation to the excise on rum. He did not so indicate, so we are moving at the same time the amendment which relates to pages 3 and 4 of the Schedule. It seeks to omit from the Schedule amendments to paragraph 6(A)(1) to the end of the Schedule; in other words, those increases in duty relating to tobacco. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendments negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, you were, of course, quite correct in your ruling that the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  was out of order. He should have taken part in the second reading debate. He should have been in the chamber for the Committee stage when the Opposition made sure that beer was isolated so that those who felt the same way as the Opposition about beer could have voted against the increase. 
With the greatest respect to the honourable member he is making a farce of this debate. It is a very serious matter. The Excise Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) increases charges on a whole range of products. The Opposition went to the trouble of isolating beer from brandy, other spirits and tobacco products so that Government members who wanted to join with us in showing their opposition to the imposts put on each of the separate categories could have done so. The honourable member for Darling Downs had an opportunity to record his opposition at the proper time. He did not do so. He did not take part in the debate. He has, of course,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  stretched your patience in joining in, in this grandstanding way, at the third reading stage of the debate. 
I also comment briefly on the remarks of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles).  He, too, ought to have realised that his Government has been ruining this country for three years. If the honourable member thinks that what the Labor Government did to the brandy industry ought to be undone or turned around, then I point out that his Government has had three years to do just that. What has it done to the brandy industry? It has imposed an increased charge on the industry as witnessed in the Bill before the House. I pay respect to the honourable member because he crossed the floor and joined us. So should many other South Australians who realise the importance of the brandy industry to South Australia. But they did not do so. It ill becomes the honourable member to shed crocodile tears at the third reading stage and suggest that there is any hypocrisy or humbug in members on this side of the House. There is not The alternative Budget speech made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  on 22 August laid down quite clearly where we stood on this measure. We have opposed each section of it and we facilitated the honourable member's being able to oppose the brandy section of it by calling for a division in the way we did at the Committee stage. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) ( 1 1.21)- I support the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  in his appeal for no further cost to be put on the worker's drink, beer. There is no doubt that the worker is finding it harder and harder to have his usual drink after work each night. I want to refer to the remarks made by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles)  about the amendment that the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  moved regarding the excise on brandy. It is not true to say that the Labor Party was hypocritical on that matter, because I have taken this matter up in our Resources Committee and also with the honourable member for Adelaide. He assured me that he had moved this amendment on account of the effect that this Bill had on my electorate. The electorate of the honourable member for Wakefield is not the only big wine and brandy area. The Riverina area is a big wine and brandy area. Our Party agreed, after discussion on this matter, that it would move this amendment. Although I appreciate the fact that the honourable member for Wakefield and the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  crossed the floor to vote with us, that is not saying that we in the Labor Party were hypocritical on this matter. We were quite sincere about it. 

 Mr McVEIGH (Darling Downs)-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-The Customs Amendment Bill 1978 has as its purpose an amendment to the valuation provisions of the Customs Act 1901 so as to put beyond doubt the inclusion of outside packaging in the dutiable value of imported goods. This is an issue which is currently subject to challenge in the courts of this land. Whilst not opposing the Bill, the Opposition does voice its concern over the manner in which decisions have been made regarding this legislation and the role of some of the parties involved. This piece of legislation is, we believe, an example of the Government's failure properly to think through its policy proposals, the result being that it has had to cave in- that is one way of putting it- following pressures from some outside sources. 
Let me just review the story as it has been related to me. The Brussels Definition of Valuethe BDV system of valuing imported goods for duty purposes- came into force on 1 July 1976. Apparently it was the Government's intention that the customs value of imported goods would include the value and costs of any packaging in which the goods were contained. However, Renault (Wholesale) Pty Ltd made an application to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal earlier this year, contesting the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs practice of including the value of outside packaging when determining the assessable value of an imported item. The Tribunal's judgment, not yet announced, may go against the Government. Therefore, the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs put a submission to the Cabinet in June of this year- as the story has been related to me- recommending that the Customs Act should be amended to put beyond doubt the question of the treatment of outside packaging. 
In that recommendation to Cabinet, apparently some retrospectivity was involved, so that it dated back to 1 July 1976. That submission, as I understand it, argued firstly that the amendment was necessary to give effect to a Cabinet decision in January 1976 in which the Cabinet specifically noted that the value of outside packaging would be included when assessing the value of imports for duty purposes; and, secondly, that the amendment should be made retrospective to 1 July 1976 for two reasons. The first was that a successful application by Renault would have a significant adverse effect on government revenue- I believe that a figure in the vicinity of $40m was mentioned- and this meant $40m in payouts of duty already collected from Renault and others. The second reason was that retrospectivity in customs legislation differed from that relating to tax legislation since the importers had already paid the duty and the duty would have been included in the price of the imported goods when they were sold, so that any refund would amount to a windfall profit. 
It should be noted at this stage that no one has seriously challenged the first proposition of the Department's submission. Indeed, the Opposition strongly supports the view that all packaging should be included in the value of imports for the purpose of customs valuation. What has been subject to attack has been the retrospectivity aspect of the Department's proposals. When I said that no one has opposed the first part of the submission, I meant that no one in this Parliament, as far as I know, at this stage has opposed it. Of course, there are those outside the Parliament who challenge it, as they have shown by taking the matter to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal- and maybe to the courts of the land. 
Following Cabinet's consideration of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs submission, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs announced on 10 July that the Government proposed to amend the Customs Act to put beyond doubt the fact that the cost of outside packaging was to be included in the value of imported goods for customs valuation purposes, and that the amendment would be made retrospective to 1 July 1976. However, following various representations from and on behalf of the industries concerned- I must confess that I was involved in these representations- considerable Government back bench and other pressure arose when the legislation was presented in early September to the Government parties. They decided that the retrospectivity part of this Bill would now date only from July this year. Now that that has happened, the Opposition does not have any reason to oppose the Bill. We hope that the original legislation will hold up before the courts because I do not think there is anybody on our side of the House who would want to see the revenue eroded in this way. Because of the hour and because of the fact that this has been canvassed elsewhere to quite a large extent, I will not detain the House any further other than to repeat that the Opposition supports the fact that this Bill now clarifies the issue and therefore we support the Bill. 
-I give notice that, at the next sitting, I will move: 
That this House censures the Minister for Primary Industry because, among other reasons, he has failed: 
to provide the Parliament with a satisfactory explanation in rebuttal of serious public charges made against him in relation to his financial affairs, and 
to justify, in particular, taxation claims for misappropriations made by companies with which he is associated amounting to over one quarter of a million dollars which deductions cost the public purse over $115,000. 
I move: 
That this House censures the Minister for Primary Industry because, among other reasons, he has failed- 
to provide the Parliament with a satisfactory explanation in rebuttal of serious public charges made against him in relation to his financial affairs, and 
to justify, in particular, taxation claims for misappropriations made by companies with which he is associated amounting to over one quarter of a million dollars which deductions cost the public purse over $113,000. 
I intend to raise in the public interest eight serious questions in relation to the conduct of this senior Minister of the Fraser Government, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  I hope I have time to cover all eight serious questions. The first is: Why is it that 34 months after he has taken virtually sole control of his family financial affairs- that is, almost three yearsthere has been no satisfactory explanation in response to the grave charges, made against him in the public arena, about those family affairs? Indeed, it is now over IS months- nearly 16 months- since the suspicions surrounding these bizarre activities came to light. On 12 August 1977 the Minister issued a Press release which in part stated: 
It has been reported that there is a deficiency of more than $250,000 in company funds. 
The Press statement went on: 
There are no amounts outstanding which have not been accounted for within the company or between the shareholders. 
In the light of unfolding events, what an extraordinarily misleading statement to make. If no amounts were outstanding on 12 August 1977, nearly 16 months ago, why on earth have not this House and the people of Australia been given the courtesy of a comprehensive statement by this Minister? It should have been easy for this to be done if there were no amounts outstanding. Of course, if there was nothing to explain, why on earth have we not had that put before us. Of course, that was a misleading statement. There is much to explain. The only purpose of such a statement was to mislead the people and to mislead this Parliament. Not only were these amounts of over $250,000 outstanding but in the same Press statement the Minister went further in seeking to mislead by suggesting that he was not a shareholder in the companies concerned. That was another attempt to mislead. 
I come to the second question: Why were these misleading statements made? The statement made on 12 August was only one of the misleading statements. There was the now infamous  Willesee at Seven  interview on IS August and screened on that day, and the answers to the former Leader of the Opposition in this Parliament on 4 October 1977. When questioned by Mike Willesee, the Minister said of the accounts filed with the annual returns: 
These are personal accounts I might add and they haven't been filed with anybody. It's a private company. 
This is an incorrect statement and a most regrettable misleading statement coming from a Minister of the Crown who was admitted to the New South Wales Bar and has said himself that he has had experience in accountancy in his father's accountancy firm and considerable experience as a director and principal accounting officer of companies incorporated under New South Wales law. He knows that companies, even though they may be exempt proprietary companies, still remain subject to the application of the Companies Act as administered in New South Wales by the Corporate Affairs Commission. He knows this. The continuing suggestion that there has been impropriety in the administration of the companies- this is public evidence from the twice amended annual company returns lodged with the Corporate Affairs Commission- reflects on the administration of the Companies Act by that Commission. 
The companies, being juridical persons, can only speak through physical persons. So far, this senior Minister of the Fraser Government has spoken on his own behalf but no one has spoken on behalf of the companies. If this is so, the New South Wales Attorney-General must defend these creatures of the law. He has been doing so through an inquiry by  Mr Finnane.  I do not anticipate the results of the inquiry. I do not use in this debate any evidence from that inquiry. I use only public evidence that is in the Press releases and the newspapers of this country. Such a public inquiry is vital. What explanations have been given by the Minister for Primary Industry cannot be regarded as satisfactory. The idea of the 
Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that the inquiry should be terminated is monstrous. It must be rejected. In the interests of justice and propriety, such a suggestion should be rejected soundly. A further misleading statement has been made. I refer to a reply in this House on 4 October to  Mr Whitlam,  the then Leader of the Opposition, in this Parliament The Minister on that occasion said: 
Although the company is a proprietary company; although the matter is entirely personal; although the circumstances are such that the term 'misappropriation' has already been explained in public ... in front of television ... to the Australian people . . . this affair is exclusively the business of the shareholders of the companies, not of the Leader of the Opposition, not of the people of Australia. 
This I submit again is not correct. Annual returns lodged with the Corporate Affairs Commission are very much public documents. They are filed so that they will be available to the public for scrutiny. This is demanded by the law in exchange for the privilege of creating a legal entity, a company, which is a separate juridical person from its shareholders and able to limit its liability. Towards the end of his reply in the House, the Minister said: 
I am quite prepared to accept responsibility for those statements which I signed. 
Now there is doubt as to what he did sign or what was signed for him. He went on: 
As, for the time being, I am executor of my father's estate, I have little alternative but to exercise the responsibility that that places on me. 
This is correct. The Minister has no alternative but to accept that responsibility and the further responsibility that the Companies Act of any State clearly thrusts upon company officers. Let us hear no more misleading nonsense that these affairs are only private and not public or of public concern. 
That brings me to the third serious question which I place before this Minister. He clearly acknowledged that his father was a chartered accountant who was, at a time, an auditor of the companies. This is obvious from the twice amended returns. Section 162 (3) of the New South Wales Companies Aa states: 
The directors of a company shall cause to be made out and laid before the company at each annual general meeting a balance-sheet as at the end of the financial year giving a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company as at the end of the financial year. 
Another section of that Act states: 
A director shall at all times act honestly and use reasonable diligence in the discharge of the duties of his office . . . 
When those two sections are read together the public is entitled to speculate as to whether the Minister for Primary Industry has been fulfilling his duties as a director. To make the link between the Minister's competence as a company officer and his adequacy for public office is not unfair. He himself stated in an interview on  AM  on 21 November that he regarded the standards he has set in this House to be the same standards as anyone would wish a person in high office to set. In the Willesee interview the Minister was asked: 
Who was the employee who was paid or benefited by the money? 
He answered: 
That's neither your business or anybody else's out there. 
The Minister has repeatedly glossed over the misappropriation. We know that it is at least $250,000. That is what we know has been claimed under section 71 of the Act. We know that if the section 5 1 claims had been agreed to the misappropriation would have been in the order of $265,000 or more. He claimed that the companies owed as much, if not more, in loans compared with the amount 'borrowed' by the misappropriator and said that the accounts supported his assertion. They do not support that assertion. It may be that he is aware of the identity of the employee involved. The facts demand that the borrower had an authority to sign cheques and it is extremely unlikely that the Minister canhot at least guess his identity. 
The third major question is: Why has not this Parliament been told about these misappropriations in greater detail? Taxation claims have been made, the public purse has lost at least $ 1 1 5,000 at 46c in the dollar company tax and if the claim is greater than $250,000 of course the loss to the public purse is greater than $1 15,000. Section 174 of the New South Wales Crimes Act is worth noting. I shall precis it: 
Whosoever, being a director, or officer ... of any body corporate . . . receives . . . any of the property of such body corporate . . . otherwise than in payment of a just debt, and, with intent to defraud, omits to make ... a true and sufficient entry thereof in the books ... of such body corporate . . . shall be liable to penal servitude for 14 years. 
By virtue of the words 'penal servitude' this offence is a felony. Section 350 of the Crimes Act states that every accessory after the fact to such a felony shall be liable to penal servitude for five years. An accessory after the fact may be defined as anyone who gives any assistance whatsoever to a felon to hinder his being apprehended, tried or suffering punishment. It is possible that whoever 'borrowed' the amount of more than $250,000 committed an offence under section 174 and anyone concealing his identity may be culpable as an accessory after the fact. However, it is worth noting that die Minister stated baldly to Willesee: 
. the misappropriation is not a criminal misappropriation. 
That brings me to the fourth serious question. How on earth is a misappropriation not a criminal offence? When is a misappropriation criminal and when is it not? Why have not criminal proceedings been instituted? Have we had a police investigation or do we have a phantom criminal in our midst? These are genuine questions which should have been answered long before this. 
-As it has been at least a few days since the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Amendment Bill 1978 was introduced to the House, I would like to say something about it in a descriptive way before getting down to my detailed comments on it. The House will remember that the purpose of the Bill is to amend the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act 1976, in other words, an Act that has been with us for only a couple of years. The amendments were foreshadowed by the Minister for Industry and 
Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  and the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  in a joint statement on 16 August this year, shortly after the Budget was introduced. The main thrusts of this Bill are three in number Firstly, an increase in the size of grants payable to eligible companies; secondly, the revamping of various elements of the Act, aimed at simplifying the procedures governing the application by companies for grants and the processing of these applications by the Industrial Research and Development Grants Board; and, thirdly, a change to the date on which the grant rates are set for a particular grant year. 
The proposed change in the grant rates encompasses both project and commencement grants. Firstly, project grants have been increased from 25 per cent of company expenditure, subject to an overall limit on grant payments to any company of $250,000, to the rate of 50 per cent, subject to a new annual limit of $500,000 for any company. Secondly, commencement grants have increased from 25 per cent of eligible company expenditure with an annual limit of $ 1 5,000 to a 50 per cent rate with a new annual limit of $25,000. This simplification of the Act involves amendments to various key definitions, including eligible contract expenditure, eligible expenditure, eligible plant expenditure and eligible salary expenditure. Also, the section relating to joint industrial research and development projects will be altered to allow the Board to enter into a single agreement with companies undertaking joint industrial research and development rather than being required to enter into a separate agreement with each participant as is currently the case. 
Finally, the Bill proposes that grant rates be set by 3 1 March preceding the start of each grant year, compared-with the current date of 30 September, a date which falls three months into the grant year. This change will give companies advance warning of the rates that will apply for the next grant year. This foreshadowing of grant rates is a step in the right direction since it should allow management time to set cash flows and plan IRD for the next financial year. So much for the purpose, as the Opposition sees that purpose, of this Bill. I would now like to make some comments on it, hastening to say, however, that the Opposition is not going to oppose the Bill and in principle we support it. According to the second reading speech of the Minister for Productivity, the new Government policy on IRD is aimed at:  . . preventing further wastage of Australian research and development resources, and to contribute advances in productivity, innnovation and sound industry development. 
Those are fine words with which we agree. On the face of it, it seems that the Government may at last have woken up in relation to its policy attitudes towards IRD. But a leopard never changes its spots, and we have a number of critical comments to make. We in the Opposition are concerned that the Government may not actually achieve the grand purpose it would have us believe that it seeks to achieve. We need to examine whether the Government is guilty of glossing over some of the real problems which remain for industrial research and development in Australia. 
The Government is guilty of a stop-start approach to IRD and of shoddy treatment to reward the Industrial Research and Development Grants Board. Funding in the past has been erratic under various conservative governments. In contrast, during the Whitlam years funding was far more stable, with the 1975-76 Budget allocation being an all-time high of $ 19m. Of course, that is in 1975-76 prices, and when making a comparison with what is being appropriated today we would have to update that amount of $19m by the amount relating to inflation. The Fraser Government reduced this allocation to $15m in 1976-77 and reduced it again to $14m in 1977-78, this in spite of increases in the cost of materials, with the price of materials used in manufacturing going up by 21 per cent during that two-year period. This means that the level of IRD expenditure by the Fraser Government as a percentage of gross domestic product has declined steadily. 
The effect of this erratic and neglectful policy has been significant in a number of ways, and I want to list them. Firstly, the Industrial Research and Development Grants Board has not been able to meet its commitments, resulting in long delays in the payment of grants to qualifying companies. Secondly, companies have continually decreased their participation in the scheme. Thirdly, because of previous commitments and first priority being given to commencement grants, funds have not been available for new IRD projects. The last point I want to make under this heading is that excessive selectivity has been forced upon the Board in its allocation of the shrinking funds made available to it by the Fraser Government. Because of these facts, the much-heralded substantial increase- I am now quoting from the ministerial statement- of 75 per cent in the 1978-79 Budget allocation is not what it might otherwise seem to be. The Government's neglect of IRD will continue to leave its mark. Of the $24m allocated for this year, at least $8m will be required to bail out the Industrial Research and Development Grants Board from the predicament the Board has found itself in because of the Government's attitude hitherto to the funding of industrial research and development in Australia. This $8m is required so that the Board will be able to pay it existing debtsgrants which have been awarded but not yet paid to qualifying companies. For this reason alone the grandstanding associated with the socalled 75 per cent increase- the increased allocation of funds- borders on the deceptive. In reality, the Government has allocated only $16m for new grants this year, an increase of only $2m over the previous year and a figure which still falls a good deal short of the allocation of $ 1 9m in the Whitlam Labor Government's final Budget in 1975-76. 
A further consequence of the limited funding has been the setting of guidelines by the Board when determining which companies are eligible for project grants. Such selectivity means that the best interests of this country may not always be served. Lack of funds forces the Board to make a choice between widely differing proposals, and that is just not good enough. This is not the only legacy of past neglect which IRD policy will have to bear. In past years, because of financial restrictions, the Board has been unable to provide funds for IRD projects as they have taken second place to commencement grants. Because companies are aware that grants are not available for specific projects they have ceased approaching the Board and/or have let their IRD divisions run down. For this reason, one injection of funds will not be enough to restore the business community's faith in the Board or in the policy of the Fraser Government in this area. In fact, the Government must follow this year's increase with further increases in funds over the next few years. 
While on this point, it may be worth while questioning the merit of separate IRD funding between commencement on the one hand and project grants on the other hand. This distinction may place an artificial restriction on the potential contribution which government promotion of IRD in Australia pursues. Many companies undertake IRD on a more casual basis than the formal project work as denned in the Act. Research is undertaken but without the formalisation of a forward program required by the Board. Such work is ineligible for a project grant as well as being ineligible for any alternative commencement grants. These companies tend to be small, but it is these companies which have the reputation for being more innovative. Surely we should look at the point I have just raised. Surely the Government should examine additional ways in which it can assist small innovative companies. 
In conclusion, may I summarise the points I have made. The past performance of the Fraser Government in die area of industrial research and development has been very poor. The figures now do not in any way compare with the amount appropriated in the last Whitlam Labor Government Budget. The erratic nature of the Government's funding of the Industrial Research and Development Grants Board has had a detrimental effect on the level of IRD in Australia, causing a general decrease in the levels undertaken and undermining the stated intentions of the Board. The business community, we believe, has lost faith in the Board, and it will take more than an announced new policy, more than an increase in funding in one Budget year, for the Government to make up its lost ground. Let us hope that this Bill is a genuine attempt by the Government to redress the faults of the past. There is no doubt that in the search we must all join to create new jobs in Australia industrial research and development are absolutely vital. I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill, but with the qualifications that I have made in this speech. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Prime Minister the following question, without notice, on 19 October 1978. The Prime Minister replied that he would treat the question as though it were on notice and ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce to give a full reply: 
My question should be directed to the Acting Minister for Industry and Commerce, but in his absence I ask the Prime Minister Is it a fact that the 30 per cent devaluation of the Australian dollar in relation to the Yen has meant a higher Australian content requirement under the motor vehicle plans than was the intention when the plans were formulated? Is it a fact that the adjustments announced by the Minister yesterday do not offset completely the effects of the 30 per cent devaluation and have left Chrysler Australia Limited and possibly other motor vehicle manufacturing companies paying large penalties for factors over which they had no control? 
It is also a fact that these large penalties may result in a further disastrous loss of employment? Is it true that General Motors-Holden's Ltd and Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd can now reduce their local content from over 90 per cent to 85 per cent, thus creating more unemployment? Without wishing in any way to support or criticise the changes made yesterday but seeking information, I ask the Prime Minister why the Government has not allowed a full adjustment for the 30 per cent devaluation and why he has allowed the abolition of reversion control procedures? 
I address my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. When does the Government intend to announce the decision concerning General Motors-Holden 's Ltd's request for an early introduction of a complementation scheme into the present motor vehicle local content plans? How does the Minister try to explain away his November statement that the plans would not be altered? If the Government is determined to pursue complementation and thus the granting of export credits, will the Minister allay the understandable fears of thousands working in the motor vehicle parts industry by announcing now, among other things, that there will be a limit of five per cent on the allowance of export credits, that a reversion committee, so recently disbanded by the Government, will be reborn to supervise any changes in independent parts production, and that export credits will be granted only in return for a guarantee of continuing performance so that disruption to parts manufacturers in particular is minimised? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
1 ) How much, and what proportion, of total local government receipts were derived from rates on property in the most recent year for which data is available. 
What is the cost to the Commonwealth of the rebate on personal income tax for local government rates. 
If this cost cannot be identified under present taxation arrangements, what was the cost in the most recent year in which identification is possible, and what proportion of total Commonwealth receipts was the total cost of this rebate. 
-This is a technical subject and I congratulate the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean),  who has just resumed his seat, for his great industry and for studying the Bill in great detail. We in the Opposition do not have the services of a Government department behind us to assist us with these matters. I do not want to suggest that the honourable member had such a department behind him. But I think it is important, before giving the Opposition's attitude to the Bill, for me to state what I believe the Bill contains or at least its salient points so that if I have misunderstood the Bill I can be told about it by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  who is at the table and no doubt will be replying on behalf of the Government. 
The purpose of this Bill is to bring into operation an optional form of patent protection by creating a new short-term patent to be known as a petty patent. In contrast, of course, with the standard patent, which has a 16-year term, the petty patent will have a minimum term of one year and, with suitable extensions, could have a term as long as six years. As I understand it, the aim of the new petty patents system is to encourage commercial exploitation of inventions which now go largely unexploited or unprotected because of deficiencies in the existing system. Also as I understand it, the existing law is based on a system of uniform, relatively long-term protection for inventions. The system provides certainty, but at the cost of delays and expense. This penalises particularly those inventions which have only one inventive characteristic and which, therefore, have short commercially exploitable lives. These involve mainly consumer oriented products such as household accessories, gadgets and so on. 
The Designs Law Revision Committee or the Franki Committee recommended as long ago as 1973 the introduction of a petty patents system, but the report did not receive complete support from the business community generally. The Industrial Property Advisory Committee set up by the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  had a further look at the issue last year and its recommendations, with one exception, are incorporated in this Bill. The Patents Amendment Bill, by amending the Patents Act of as long ago as 1952, allows for a greatly reduced period of examination by making an application for a patent no longer automatically subject to rigorous examination as are applications for standard patents. The benefits which will result from this include two which I have picked out- the inventor will be able to market or licence his petty patent more quickly and, secondly, the costs involved will be greatly reduced. 
As I understand it also- and I repeat that I state all this so that I can be corrected if I am wrong before giving the Opposition's attitude to the Bill- at the same time the Bill preserves the rights of competitors and consumers by limiting the initial term of a petty patent to 12 months with, as I mentioned earlier, those extensions to six years. Whilst not opposing this Bill, the Opposition wishes to express some concern about some aspects of the legislation. From the evidence that we have today, we cannot be sure that the Government has considered sufficiently a number of questions. Let me list some of the questions which we want to raise. 
Firstly, will the new system really give a much needed boost to inventive activity? It is not clear to us that it will. I would like to make a few points about this question. The Inventors Association, for example, is not convinced that the proposed petty patents system will directly aid individual inventors but believes instead that it may be of value only to small manufacturers. In addition, all interested groups have strongly urged consideration of a lower standard of inventiveness for petty patents so that the system may be more effective. But the Industrial Property Advisory Committee apparently did not feel itself to be in the position to determine whether different levels of inventiveness should be required or to identify an appropriate basis for defining such differences. However, rather in a contradictory way that Committee felt that it may not be long before it becomes accepted that a two-tier system should be introduced involving differences in the level of inventiveness for standard patents on the one hand and petty patents on the other hand. Therefore, we would question whether it would not have been better to wait until this significant issue had been sorted out so that we could all have been more confident that the system introduced would be effective in achieving its aims. I might add that the two-tier system is, of course, operating in a number of other countries. 
The second question which I wish to raise for the Minister to answer is whether we can be guaranteed that the new system achieves a proper balance between the need to stimulate inventive activity on the one hand and freedom of access to all publicly available technology on the other hand. The Minister in his second reading speech and, I believe, on other occasions has placed great emphasis on the role of his Industrial Property Advisory Committee, but on the Committee's own admission we are fearful that its advice may have been hastily put together and so somewhat suspect in quality. I make that plain, of course, from reading the Advisory Committee's own documents. It has confessed that its deliberations, unlike the Franki Committee's deliberations, consisted only of individual members perusing written background material, culminating in two days of meetings. As a result of this, the members of this Advisory Committee expressed considerable reservations whether they could reasonably propose any significant departure from the substance of the recommendations of the Franki Committee, which recommendations the Minister himself acknowledged did not receive unqualified support from industry in Australia. So we have to ask what weight we should attach to the recommendations from the Advisory Committee? What guarantees have we that the new system will achieve the proper balance between the incentive to invest on the one hand and the need to have access to technology on the other hand. 
I come to my third question to the Minister. I hasten to say that I recognise that the Minister for Productivity is not able to be present as he has left for overseas on Government business. But I have no doubt that these questions will reach him one day and that, being a courteous fellow, he will reply to me one day, if only in writing. My third question is whether the Government is justified in claiming that the system of petty patents outlined in this Bill is something new. After all, many other countries have had, as I mentioned earlier, a two-tiered system for some time. I would like to know more about why our legislation differs from the two-tiered systems elsewhere. 
I realise that something is needed urgently in this country to boost industrial research and development generally. The Government's performance in this area has been woeful Only last Monday, 26 February 1979, the Australian Bureau of Statistics released figures on the industrial research and development activity in Australia over the period 1973-74 to 1976-77. The results are nothing less than a national disgrace. Research and development work in Australia has dropped by 18 per cent in current prices, representing a drop of at least 55 per cent in real terms over the period. Total work time spent on industrial research and development projects has dropped by 40 per cent. This dismal industrial research and development performance is largely the consequence of reduced and erratic funding of industrial research and development in Australia by the Fraser Government; in contrast, may I say, to the higher, more stable levels of expenditure during the time of the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975. The last Labor Government's Budget allocation was $ 19m- an all time high. The Fraser Government reduced this allocation to $ 15m in 1976-77 and reduced it again to $ 14m in 1977-78. This was in spite of increases in the cost of materials used in manufacturing which had gone up by 2 1 per cent during the two-year period. 
These policies have meant a run down of industrial research and development facilities in this country over that period. Companies are now less and less geared up for undertaking this important research and development work. The Government should not take solace in the much publicised $24m allocation in the most recent Budget, for 1978-79. Of this sum of $24m at least $8m will be required to bale out the Industrial Research and Development Grants Board because of the excess of applications over the amount that it had been able to grant in the previous financial year. This sum will enable the Board to pay off existing debts- that is, grants which have been awarded but not yet paid over to qualifying companies. 
For this reason alone the grandstanding by Ministers of the Government generally, but in particular, frankly, the Minister for Productivity as he has gone around this country, is not justified. This grandstanding is associated with a real 40 per cent decrease. There has been an adjustment of figures. That is the kindest way I can put it. The Minister has referred to it as a 75 per cent increase. In other words, I believe that some of that grandstanding borders on deception because it relates to the $24m appropriated in the current financial year, compared with the very low figure in the previous financial year to which the Fraser Government had allowed the allocation to decline. In reality the Government has allocated only $ 16m for new grants this year, an increase of only $2m over the previous year. This figure is still short of the allocation in the last Labor Government's final Budget. 
Finally I raise the question as to whether it was necessary in this Bill to leave so much to the Commissioner's discretion.  Senator Cavanagh,  my colleague in another place, is a tireless worker in seeing that legislation has certainty and is not left to the discretion of public servants- in this case the Commissioner of Patents. The honourable senator has drawn to my attention the large extent to which such discretion is given to the Commissioner in this Bill. I support the honourable senator because I believe too that there ought to be as much certainty as possible. I raise this matter in the form of a question because it is possible that although the Minister and his Department have tried hard to see that as much certainty as possible is written into the legislation they have come to the conclusion that if the legislation were much more detailed it could become a jungle such as the tax legislation has become a jungle. 
I raise all these questions in the hope that the Government will give me satisfactory answers at some stage. I believe that all in all the Government has no reason to be proud at all of its policies in the industrial research and development field. Let us hope that this legislation will do something to remedy the situation, encourage the inventiveness of Australians and assist the creation of new Australian industries built on Australian inventiveness. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  My thanks go also to the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  and to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  for arranging my being able to lead for the Opposition on this matter of the statement by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  concerning the export facilitation measures introduced into the motor vehicle local content plan. I have an amendment to the motion 'That the House take note of the paper'. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: this House, while recognising the need for volume production to achieve lower priced Australian made vehicles, condemns the Government for entering into an agreement for an export credit/international complementation scheme of vehicle production with unnecessary haste and, for its failure to- 
1 ) provide for close monitoring and control of component rationalisation; 
2 ) provide details of total labour force and industry impact of proposed changes both short and long term; 
outline job security, training, retraining and relocation programs; 
achieve firm long term undertakings from overseas motor vehicle builders about continuing performance in Australia; 
5 ) consider alternative schemes of vehicle production in Australia that would enable economies of scale to be achieved whilst retaining a comprehensive range of vehicle manufacturing capacities and skills; 
consider regional economic/social effects of the proposal; 
7 ) consider the effect on the balance of payments; 
8 ) consult fully with trades union and industry representatives; and 
comply with the requirements of the Environmental Impact Statement legislation'. 
In short, the Fraser Government has shown once again its inability to plan properly for increased international competitiveness in our industries, its inability to minimise adverse effects of change on thousands of working people and its inability to build up techniques to negotiate meaningfully on behalf of the Australian people with great and powerful transnational corporations whose interests are not necessarily the same as those of our nation. 
In the short time available to me I want to make about eight points in relation to this. Firstly, Labor- I am now referring to the industrial wing as well as the political wing of the labour movement; in other words, the Australian Labor Party and the unions- recognises only too well the vital necessity to strike a balance between the need to maintain a labour intensive industry with high technology and the rights of consumers to the best and cheapest cars. If cars are not relatively cheap and if we continue to require high levels of protection the industry will continue to stagnate and there will be no security of employment for those working in this industry. With our relatively small population we in this country suffer from a cost disadvantage. Because we provide our people with a reasonably wide choice of Australian-made cars, with only 14 million people, we suffer from a lack of volume production in each make and each model. So we have no economies of scale, and unit costs and prices are high. If we seek to effect mergers or arrange consortia of builders, which is suggested by some as a means of achieving the economies of scale, and thereby limit the number of makes to achieve that volume production, it is, I believe, incumbent on those who advocate this as one of the policy options to state which makes they intend to phase out, which motor vehicle companies are going to be affected, which parts manufacturers will be penalised- and there will be many- which regions will be disadvantaged, how they are going to achieve such a policy, and so on. The Labor Party is not committed to such a policy. 
Just to dwell on the last question for a moment, namely, how we are going to achieve such a policy of mergers or arranging consortia, we need to know from those who advocate this as a solution details of the powers they are going to use to achieve this aim. Is it suggested that the Government threaten to withdraw depreciation allowances, export grants or research and development subsidies to bring about its wishes? If so, in a free society such as ours, what is to prevent companies sacking some of their employees, if not all of them, in retaliation? I do not like facing this possibility. I do not like the fact that it is a possibility. I do not defend the fact that it could happen, but I believe that we have to be realistic and to cast that aside as an option. Other pertinent questions are these: What the effect will be of these mergers on the consumers. How will they react to having fewer makes from which to choose? What research has been done to determine whether consumers will buy more of the remaining fewer Australian-made makes and models to make up for the ones phased out? How do we know that the result will not be less Australian production and less Australian employment? I believe that that might be one of the effects of such a policy. The situation is bad enough now. I am appalled by the number of parliamentarians, Federal and State, who are buying imported cars. 
Let us look at the employment figures in the industry. In May 1974 103,000 people were employed in the Australian motor manufacturing industry. In July 1978 the figure was down to 79,300. This shows the extent of the stagnation if we continue with the policies as they are now. Until some solid submissions are put before us answering the questions I have raised I remain wary about mergers or consortia as a feasible solution. We shall formulate our policies in the Labor Party in the hard practical world we know to exist. We shall not take risks with this vitally important motor manufacturing industry, not only because of the thousands it employs in its various facets- I am referring to the parts industry, the motor builders' industry and the car distribution industry- but also because it is 'the engine ' of the Australian manufacturing industry generally. It gives us so much technology, for a start. 
The second point I want to make is that change in the motor vehicle industry, whatever decisions are taken by Government, is inevitable. This is a free and enterprising society in which we live. The aim of democratic socialists or social democrats- honourable members can refer to me in either of those terms- is to make our society freer, fairer and more enterprising and to recognise that enterprise does not have to be solely in the private sector any more than it should be solely in the public sector. We need it in both. There will not be freedom and fairness unless it is in both the public and private sector. 
One of the values of this mixed economy society of ours is that industry should respond readily as people's tastes change. We do not want the dull and dreary world of communist societies where such responses are slow and where the consumer's choice is limited. Changes come about because of shortages of certain materials or increased prices of those inputs or because of new technology. Such changes are taking place at a fast pace in the motor vehicle manufacturing industry right now. Oil prices have gone up. People are consequently moving to four-cylinder engines. Aluminium is becoming competitive with steel. There is a strong possibility of aluminium rather than steel vehicle panels in the future. So many parts manufacturers live in this uncertain world anyway. It is not only governments which bring about disruption through changes. It is the job of governments to seek to lessen the pains of change. 
So arising out of the two points that I have raised so far, we must recognise that change is inevitable if the industry is not to continue to stagnate and give an uncertain future to its workers, and that such change must be in the direction of volume production, preferably without reducing the choice available to Australian consumers and thus risking buyer resistance. 
So my third point is that the Australian Labor Government sought to achieve these aims by persuading on the industry rationalisation of component production. Using the facilities of Chrysler Australia Ltd's Tonsley plant in Adelaide to build four cylinder engines for more than just Chrysler was one example of this policy. The Fraser Government must be condemned for scuttling this policy. It would have resulted in far fewer dangers and difficulties than the alternative complementation scheme being pursued by the Government as announced in the statement which we are debating tonight. There was an alternative way to bring about lower costs of cars and more stability in the industry without threatening thousands of jobs as are threatened in this Fraser Government plan. The Fraser Government rejected and discarded that alternative way and it must be condemned for doing so. Now we are left with this export credit complementation scheme which the Government is intent on pursuing. It threatens thousands of jobs because there are insufficient safeguards in its implementation. 
The remaining points I want to make are positive ones as to how these safeguards, if we are to have this scheme, should be improved. So my fourth point must be, as indicated in the amendment that I have already read to the chamber, that there must be close monitoring and control of component rationalisation. This should be done through a system of reversion controls as existed in the Labor Government plans. I have been stating this- it is on the public record- since the General Motors-Holden's Ltd J car changes were first suggested. I am flattered to note that the parts manufacturers through their Federation of Automotive Products Manufacturers have now taken up this call in their qualified support for the local content changes. 
The fifth point is that, of course, we must have better job security, better training schemes, retraining and relocation programs. The Labor Government had started such programs. They have been terminated by the Fraser Government. Almost every other advanced country in the world has such programs. We have nothing to speak of in this country at all thanks to what the Fraser Government has done. I have a document from the United States of America entitled Trade Adjustment Assistance for Workers: Questions and Answers'. I would like to quote some questions and answers from this document because they give an indication of the sort of things that are available in just that one country. The document states: 
What is trade adjustment assistance for workers? 
Trade adjustment assistance for workers is a Federal program administered by the US Department of Labor and co-operating State employment security agencies under provisions of the Trade Act of 1974. Established to help American workers who become totally or partially unemployed as a result of increased imports, the program provides eligible workers with trade readjustment allowances during the periods of unemployment or underemployment . . . 
What are trade readjustment allowances? 
Trade readjustment allowances (TRA) are weekly payments. 
The document points out that these allowances give enormous help to workers- up to 70 per cent of average weekly earnings. The document continues: 
How long may a worker receive trade readjustment allowances? 
A worker may receive basic TRA for up to 52 weeks. . . 
There is nothing comparable in this country to these restructuring assistance schemes. The document also states: 
Who may file a petition for adjustment assistance? 
Any group of three or more workers of a firm or subdivision of a firm, their union, or their duly authorised representative, who feel that increased import competition has contributed importantly to the workers' unemployment or underemployment may petition the United States Department of Labor for a determination of eligibility to apply for adjustment assistance. 
This is what is available from the United States alone. It is the sort of readjustment program we ought to have in this country. This is the fifth point I was hoping to make. 
Sixthly, as point (4) of our amendment indicates, of course we should have some long term undertakings from the overseas motor vehicle builders that they are going to stay in this country and not hold us over a barrel in, say, five years time. It is totally intolerable that we put ourselves so greatly into the hands of overseas decision makers. We need sovereignty here. We need to be masters over the decisions which affect our lives by making those decisions ourselves and not being in the hands of others to such a great extent as is implied in locking into this particular scheme of the world car concept. One way of mitigating the adverse effects of plugging into this world car concept is to get some signed guarantees from the overseas car companies that they will have continuing performance in Australia. But it needs a government which is nationalistic in outlook- not lapdogs, not sycophants of large companies- to exert our rights in this way and obtain signed guarantees. 
Another point I want to make relates to the retaining of Australian technology and skills. This point also is contained in our amendment as are so many of the other points which I will not have time to make. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. Were 50,000 more people registered as unemployed at the end of February 1979 than at the end of February last year? Has the number of unfilled vacancies registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service declined by 1,100 over the last year? Do the respected seasonal adjustments of  Dr Alan  Hall of the Australian National University show that unemployment rose in real terms by 14,000 during the month of February? Do these factors show clearly that there has been not only a severe deterioration in employment opportunities during the last year but also a marked worsening of the labour market during the last month? 
-The House is debating cognately the Prices Justification Amendment Bill 1979 and a ministerial statement concerning the Prices Justification Tribunal. The Bill, to which I will be applying most of my attention, further emasculates the Prices Justification Tribunal and renders it even more impotent than it is now. The Tribunal is impotent now mainly because of the alterations already made to its structure by the Fraser Government. The Opposition is not only totally out of sympathy with some of the major effects of this Bill- I shall talk more about that later- but also will go further and seek to decline to give the Bill a second reading in this House. In other words, I shall be moving an amendment to that effect later in my speech. 
As it is some weeks since the Bill was introduced, let me go over the aim of the Bill. The purpose of the Bill is to put into effect the Government's decision to make the changes to the operations of the Prices Justification Tribunal that were announced on 18 October last. The stated aim of the Bill is to modify- I pause there because 'modify' is a very modest and inaccurate word; I would say 'emasculate' would be more appropriate- the operations of the PJT so as to have three effects. The first effect is substantially to reduce the cost to businesses of servicing its regulatory requirements. I pause to say that the Opposition believes that is a good aim but there are other ways of achieving that aim. There are ways other than those that are contained in this Bill. The second aim is to ensure that the PJT's operations are within the framework of government policy. The legislation does no such thing. I assert and I will show that it hinders some of the stated aims of the Government. The third aim of the Bill is to improve the capacity of the PJT to inquire into prices that need to be examined. We would welcome the achieving of this aim if this were the true position. But, of course, the achieving of this aim should have been sought in a way other than by this legislation, which will lead to the emasculation of the PJT. 
Let me say something about the nature of the amendments which are contained in the legislation. The cost cutting goal- the first of the aims- is to be achieved by those amendments which repeal the requirement which makes it mandatory for prescribed companies, which are generally those with an annual turnover exceeding $30m, to notify the Tribunal of proposed price increases. No longer are these companies obliged to notify the Tribunal. Amendments relating to the first aim restrict the notification of proposed price increases in the future to those companies which have been subject to an inquiry, and then only where the PJT decides that it is warranted and only for a maximum period of 12 months. The amendments also seek to reduce the costs in theory by instituting a pre-inquiry procedure which 'will allow the PJT to obtain basic information about the company or industry concerned without using the public hearing for this purpose and, in certain circumstances, may establish that a public inquiry is not necessary'. Further, under the first aim, there are amendments which provide the Tribunal with discretion to allow an interim price increase to companies under inquiry, since prices are frozen until the Tribunal presents its findings at present, and strengthen the confidentiality provisions so that the Tribunal can only disclose information which it deems to be in the public interest. All those amendments weaken the prices justification system still further and lead me to the charge, which I repeat, that it is even more impotent than it was. 
In relation to the second goal, the coordinating goal, we have amendments seeking to achieve this by, firstly, making the decision to proceed with an inquiry subject to ministerial approval; secondly, allowing the Minister to set time limits for Tribunal-initiated inquiries; and thirdly, making provision for the Minister to issue general directives to the Tribunal. The third aim- which I call the functions broadening goal- is achieved by those amendments which, firstly, broaden the Tribunal's function to cover inquiries other than just prices justification inquiries and, secondly, better equip the Tribunal to conduct inquiries into pricing practices within industries as distinct from within companies. So much for the aims. 
Let me elaborate on the Opposition 's attitude. The Opposition is vigorously opposed to this Bill because we recognise that the amendments represent the final nail in the coffin of the Tribunal and that we are witnessing its de facto abolition in this Bill. To explain this position I need to give some background by setting out the original nature of the Tribunal's operations, by outlining the rationale for a PJT body, by surveying this Government's history of what I call malign neglect of the Tribunal's role and, lastly, by establishing the destructive effects of these major amendments of which I have reminded the House. For the record and for the sake of comparisons, let me remind the House of what the Prices Justification Tribunal was formed to do under Labor in the period from 1973 to 1975. The PJT was established, I remind the House, on 1 August 1973. The requirements of the original Prices Justification Act apply to all companies whose turnover in Australia in the previous 12 months exceeded $20m. They were required to notify the PJT if they intended to supply goods or services at a price higher than the price at which they were supplied during the preceding month. Companies were also required to notify the PJT of the price of any new goods or services not previously supplied by these companies. The penalty for not notifying the Tribunal of these changes was set at $10,000. There were amendments to the Act in 1974 during the period of the Labor Government and these gave the PJT power to inquire into and report on the prices charged by any companies, irrespective of turnover, so enabling inquiry into both retail prices and the prices of imported goods. 
Another feature under Labor was that upon receiving notification of a proposed price increase the PJT had 2 1 days to decide whether the notified price seemed justified. The procedure as amended in those 1 974 amendments to which I have referred was then for the PJT to notify the company of any lower price it considered justified. The company then had seven days to inform the Tribunal whether it accepted the lower price or preferred to proceed to a public inquiry. Another feature was that if the PJT did not notify the company of a decision in the allotted time or if it notified it that no further inquiries were needed, the new prices could operate. If further inquiries were necessary before the decision was made on the justification of the new prices, the prices were required to remain at the previous level until after the inquiry and until after the publication of the report. A penalty of $ 10,000 was laid down in the event of this provision not being fulfilled. I have a final few points about the Tribunal. In the days when it was effective and meant something, if a public inquiry were held a report had to be sent to the Minister within four months of the notice of public inquiry being served on the company and the Minister had up to 14 days to consider the report. The company had a further two weeks to advise the Minister of the price at which it intended to supply the goods or services. Furthermore, there was no compulsion on the companies to accept the Tribunal's findings. That was the position. 
Now let me remind the House of why that was the position. What was the rationale for a prices justification policy? The major reason for the establishment of the Tribunal falls under three headings: Firstly, an effective PJT was seen as an essential ingredient in any wage-prices package or anti-inflationary policy. The acceptance of indexation by the trade union movement of this country had been premised on the understanding that a body such as the PJT effectively placed companies in a position of public accountability which paralleled unions' requirements to justify their members' wage levels before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Thus effective prices justification policies were deemed necessary not just because they might make some independent contribution to the containment of inflation but also because wages policies were unlikely to be accepted- in fact they just would not have been accepted at that time- if prices policies did not exist. The trade unions are unlikely now to accept that their wages should be determined in significant part by arbitration while firms are free to set prices without reference to any public authority. 
The second heading for the rationale is that irrespective of the rate of inflation it was accepted that governments must pursue policies designed to safeguard against possible abuses of market power. However, trade practices legislation cannot be used to eliminate market power entirely, especially in the relatively small, isolated and dispersed Australian market conditions where economies of scale are possible in many industries only if production is concentrated in the hands of a few firms possessing appreciable market power. The position might be quite different in the United States of America, for instance, with its enormous market of over 200 million people. In that country there need not be a monopolistic or oligopolistic situation where there are one or perhaps two or three companies in a particular field. Here it is justified on the grounds that we need economies of scale but that justifies even more the need for a public authority to scrutinise what those people in those monopolistic and oligopolistic positions are doing. Whilst the existence of some degree of market power would be a fact of life, a PJT body is required to perform the role of an economic watchdog by exercising surveillance over prices and by preventing possible abuses by companies possessing market power. If there were true competition, I repeat, there would be less rationale for this particular body, but in so many cases in this country there is not true and effective competition and, therefore, there is such a need. The third reason I give under this heading of the rationale is that there was growing public pressure- and there still is that pressure- for large corporations to be socially answerable for their actions in most fields, including the prices field. It was felt that a body such as the PJT could and should provide greater public awareness and knowledge of the workings of the economic system. They are the three points which go to make up this rationale. 
The strength of these arguments for a prices justification body is as powerful if not more powerful today than in the early 1970s. There are a number of reasons for this and I want to include some of them. Firstly, inflationary forces are on the increase at this time. Food prices rose by more than 12 per cent during the last year. The prices of electrical installation materials increased by 16 per cent. Materials used in manufacturing now cost 22 per cent more than they did a year ago. Those are just some of the facts relating to the pressures of inflation right now. Secondly, corporate profits are booming. An  Australian Financial Review  survey of 200 listed companies has shown that 76 of them reported profit rises of more than 25 per cent. Thirdly, market power will increase in many segments of industry as mergers take place. We read in the business pages of each of our newspapers that they are taking place now as industry rationalises and adjusts to become more competitive internationally. Of course, this has been argued by the Crawford Study Group on Structural Adjustment and in other areas as being something good. Lastly, importance is placed upon the social responsibility of firms during a period of adaptation and change to the new structural and technological circumstances of the 1980s. While there is this growing market power there is even more reason why we should have bodies like the PJT as watchdogs for the community over that market power in the private sector. On the face of it, even the Fraser Government appears to accept the persuasiveness of these arguments for a prices justification body. To be more accurate, perhaps I should have said that it pays lip service to that idea. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  in his October statement, grandstanded in this way: 
The Government has decided to retain the PJT. 
In his second reading speech he stated that the Government wished both to 'ensure adequate surveillance of prices and improve the capacity of the PJT to inquire into prices that need to be examined.' They are the words but they are not matched by deeds. This was the lip service. If only the real intentions fitted the words we would have cause for less alarm than I have and which I express now. 
However, let us look at the deeds. A survey of the Government's record in dealing with the PJT and a closer look at the effects of the amendments contained in this Bill expose this stance, this window dressing of the Minister, for what it is. I sum it up as a cynical, calculated attempt to retain the shell of a body 'serving a valuable industrial relations role'- those are the words of the Minister to a recent meeting with businessmen- while effectively destroying any positive contribution which such a body could play in the fight against inflation and in the fight against the abuse of market power. Working people in this country are not as gullible as the Minister or the members of the Government would wish. They realise that the amendments in this Bill which are now being debated put the final nail in the coffin of an effective prices justification body. They realise that prices in Australia no longer will be subject to any effective public scrutiny. The wage earners will be expected to bear the brunt of this Government's anti-inflationary policies. 
The Opposition's conclusion that this Bill represents the de facto abolition of the PJT is the combined result of a number of points. Firstly, there is an appreciation of the Government's attitude towards the PJT, as I have indicated to the House, and secondly, there is an understanding of the destructive effects of the major amendments in this Bill. It is for those reasons that I wish to move this amendment on behalf of the Opposition. 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the House declines to give the Bill a second reading as it is of opinion that- 
1 ) by abolishing the requirement for notification of prospective price rises it represents the final destruction of the Tribunal's ability to fulfil its original function of ensuring that unjustified price rises are not imposed on the community; 
it is contrary to the Government's supposed basic objective of reducing inflation and is especially inappropriate at a time when inflation is gathering pace; 
) the introduction of such legislation at a time when the Government is continuously emphasising the need to prevent wage increases, and is currently seeking means to more effectively implement that policy, demonstrates utter insensitivity and naivety in regard to industrial relations and total disregard of equity; and 
4 ) by greatly increasing the power of the Minister to direct and restrict the Tribunal, it destroys its independence and renders the Tribunal subject to considerable political influence and control in its day to day operations'. 
I now wish to say more about the attitude of the Government to the PJT. Following a muchpublicised promise by the Liberal Party and the National Country Party when in opposition to abolish the Tribunal, the attitude of the Government can only be described as a series of deliberate attempts to wind down the full time continous prices justification role of the Tribunal. I wish to consider the following actions- I refer to them as a seedy list of reprehensible actionswhich this Government has undertaken in its three years in power. Firstly, there were the 1976 amendments to the Act which substantially modified the nature of the Tribunal's role and considerably reduced the number of firms subject to the surveillance of the Tribunal. Next, there were the staff cuts, with the average number of persons employed by the Tribunal falling from 138 in 1975-76 to 1 19 in 1976-77, to 107 in 1977-78.I am informed that the number employed on 30 June last was down to 99. There is then the failure to appoint a permanent  chairman  until last week or the week before last following the resignation of  Mr Justice  Williams. The appointment of  Mr Colin  Conron came 16 months after the resignation of  Mr Justice  Williams. There was then the continued uncertainty over the future location of the Tribunal; was it to be Melbourne or Canberra? What does that do for morale? There is then the undermining of the morale of Tribunal members and staff in another way- by repeated PJT bashing in ministerial statements. For example, on his first day as Minister, on 1 August 1976, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, acting on Cabinet instructions and following lobbying by media interests and by Colgate-Palmolive Pty Ltd, in the middle of a PJT inquiry sent a telegram purporting to instruct the Tribunal to abandon the central issue of that inquiry; namely, whether that company's high advertising costs justified its prices. This was a blatant and intimidatory attempt to interfere in the conduct of that inquiry. I know how central that issue was to that inquiry. As a former  chairman  of the Joint Committee on Prices during the period 1973 to 1975 I realised, after an inquiry by that Committee into the soaps and detergents industries, how to such a great extent advertising is wasted and adds to the cost to the consumer. 
I wish to add to this seedy list by referring to the Government's silence over the Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort Ltd challenge over woolbroking charges last year. For the first time in the history of the PJT a firm- in this case Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort- failed to comply with the findings of a PJT inquiry. For a long time Australian woolgrowing organisations have been discontented at the inefficient and inequitable charges levied on them and their members, the farmers and woolgrowers of this country, by woolbrokers. Despite the clear recommendation of the Tribunal, the Minister has done nothing to try to get Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort to lower its charges. In fact, it has been encouraged not to do so. Last in this seedy list is the Government's failure to reappoint  Mr Michael  Long as a full time member of the Tribunal. That is a not too subtle warning to other members whose time for reappointment is approaching. Not coincidentally,  Mr Long  was the member in charge of the inquiries into the prices charged by both Colgate-Palmolive and Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort. 
I now come to the effect of these amendments. The amendments contained in this Bill clearly represent another, perhaps final, step in the Government's deliberate plans to wind down the full-time, continuous price monitoring role of the Tribunal. Consider the effects of the three main amendments. The effects of the decision to drop the requirements for prior notification will be significant. Effective prices justification is not possible if there is no requirement to notify the Tribunal of intended price rises. The Tribunal is left driving blind. No mechanism is left for the effective monitoring of price increases before and as they happen. It is misleading for the Minister to argue that the Tribunal 'is well equipped to carry out an on-going price surveillance role'. Another point in relation to this is that the prior notification process is- or was, if this Bill is passed- an important form of discipline on firms by forcing them to consider whether their price increases are in the public interest and can be justified. It has a great moral effect on them. It makes firms ask themselves whether they are acting responsibly in setting prices. In addition, prior notification enables the PJT to detect and usually stop many unjustified price rises. An examination of the PJTs annual report indicates a high rate of amendment by firms of proposed price rises- in most years in over 10 per cent of notificationsfollowing PJT consideration of their prices. 
Another point is that the implication is that firms can charge unjustified prices first and that only later can action be taken. It will not be much consolation for customers who are overcharged to learn that an inquiry is to be held into the firm concerned, as those customers will not get a refund of the extra prices they were charged and paid in the meantime. If companies implement price increases prior to the Prices Justification Tribunal making a decision which recommends a lower price than the implemented price rise, it creates the problem of rolling back prices. The prices have already been increased; how difficult it would be to roll them back. 
The rolling back of price rises creates enormous problems for the company concerned and its customers. Additional and unnecessary accounting and administration costs are involved, which add to cost structures and the inflation rate. Further, in cases in which a company's customers are retailers to the public and are outside public price scrutiny, there is no guarantee that the retailers will roll back the retail price accordingly. The extent to which this occurs will unnecessarily add to inflation. The poor old customers- the ordinary Australians- are not being served properly by this Government by measures such as this. They are the mugs who are hit to leg because the Government is watering down the prices justification regime in this country. 
Another point about the effects of these amendments is that the PJT was established and has remained in existence, in part, to demonstrate that companies must publicly justify price increases to the public, just as wage and salary earners must justify wage and salary increases before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I mentioned that point earlier. The ability of companies to increase prices prior to or during PJT scrutiny is inconsistent with the procedures of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Union wage claims are not implemented pending Commission consideration; nor should company price increases be implemented prior to those price increases being justified. 
Finally, I make the point that the Minister claimed that the additional cost incurred by companies in notifying the Tribunal of intended price increases is sufficient justification for removing the notification requirement. However, by now companies have organised their accounting and confidential records to provide the required background information for the Tribunal. So I assert that the additional cost incurred in providing information for future notifications is minimal. Further, if companies are pricing efficiently, the required information should be produced and available to the company. If none of those points relating to the cost to the company applies- if they are not valid- I assert that there are other ways of cutting the costs to business of essential notification. I assert also that the Australian Labor Party is hell bent on ensuring that those costs to business are reduced. Those costs, if not reduced, end up in higher prices. We want those unnecessary costs to be reduced. But other procedures could be followed. One would be to standardise the information requirements of the various government agencies. We have plans to see that this happens when we take over the government of this country shortly. 
In summary, the amendments removing prior notification effectively will cripple the Tribunal's role as a prices justification body. I believe that there can be no denying this. The effects of the decision to increase ministerial supervision of the PJT's operations will further limit the independence and effectiveness of the Tribunal. This means that the Tribunal's future activity will be increasingly politicised. Not only is the Minister given the right to make the final decision on whether to go ahead with an inquiry but also, firstly, he is not required to give his reasons for not giving approval to go ahead to the public inquiry stage and, secondly, he has the power to issue directives to the Tribunal about any matter to which he wishes the Tribunal to give special consideration. The Minister's power in this field is unlimited and it is sinister that this is so. The Minister is likely to use those powers in a onesided manner, as happened in the ColgatePalmolive Pty Ltd case, in which the Minister said that advertising costs should not be looked at but that wage costs should be looked at. 
The effect of the decision to give more emphasis to price inquiries than to prices justification inquiries must be treated with a good deal of suspicion. Again, the powers of the Minister are unlimited. We may see him directing the Tribunal to establish the level of prices which would be charged if, say, workers were paid at only award rates or if workers did not receive penalty rates. The potential for abuse of the PJT and the potential for undermining its independent position, upon which its reputation depends, is unlimited. I have indicated that the Labor Party would wish to make some reforms to the PJT but now that the PJT has been emasculated we cannot talk about just reforms; we have to talk about reasserting the position of the PJT, reforming the PJT so that we will have adequate price surveillance in this country. I would have liked to have said more but my time has expired. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
-I oppose the motion before the House and support the amendment moved by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon).  I am glad to have this opportunity to place my reasoning on the public record, albeit in a brief form because I know many others wish to speak in this debate. Initially I want to discuss abortions generally before moving to the subject of the funding of abortions, which this debate should be about. I am opposed to abortions because I believe that life begins at conception- or at least implantation- and should not be terminated. In other words, I belong to the genetic school. It is no secret that my family and I are practising members of the Catholic Church. However I recognise that this attitude is not something I or anyone else can scientifically prove. In other words, this belief that I have in the genetic school is, to a large extent, a matter of faith. 
I respect the beliefs of those of many differing religions as well as those of no religion at all who belong to the developmental school, namely, those who hold that whilst conception establishes the genetic basis for an individual human being some degree of foetal development is required before one can legitimately speak of the life of an individual human as being an issue in the abortion decision. The developmental school belief, I repeat, is one that I believe is properly held. I respect that belief, although from a personal point of view, due to my education, experience, training and the life which I have led, I do not support it. 
Because ours is a free society of many differing views, because there exists among persons of goodwill a genuine difference of opinion concerning the rights of a foetus in its early stage of development and because all people I respect support, among other appropriate and relevant statements, the Catholic Church's Second Vatican Council Declaration on Religious Freedom, I find myself, as a parliamentary representative, unable to support legislation, which makes criminals of those who do not share my faith. Similarly I was unable to support the McKenzie-Lamb Bill and would be unable to support any other specific legislation which may come before this Parliament which did not follow the generally accepted beliefs about truths of the vast majority of people in our society. 
I shall continue to speak out against abortion and to donate personally to Birthline and to any other organisations which seek to support those who suffer unwanted pregnancies in preference to succumbing to abortions. I shall seek, by my vote, to allow only those changes to the relevant laws which carefully control abortions and allow them merely for a short period after conception. Those laws, as far as this Parliament is concerned, affect only the Territories. The laws that I am now talking about are the laws of the States. If the present laws in the States are deficient then we, as politicians involved in our State machines, ought to be applying pressure in Victoria and New South Wales in particular to tighten up these laws if indeed they should be tightened even to conform with the developmental school 's thoughts and beliefs. I know of no impending changes anywhere but I do know something about the South Australian legislation. I believe that it is built on the developmental school's thoughts and beliefs. It is harder in South Australia, because of its specific legislation, to get an abortion than it is in New South Wales and Victoria where there is no specific legislation and the nettle has not been grasped. It is, of course, totally wrong that this should be so. I repeat that I shall never support abortion on demand and I shall be bringing pressures whenever I can see that the legislation is clear and follows generally held beliefs in our community about what are truths. 
I turn to the question of funding which, of course, is what this debate should be about but which it has not entirely been about. As I have indicated, I shall not support the Lusher motion or the specific amendments to it. I shall be supporting the amendment moved by the honourable member for McMillan. The issues relating to abortions should be decided when formulating laws concerning whether or not abortions are legal, not in relation to whether or not they should be publicly funded through medical benefits and by other means. In relation to the latter I am informed- and the Australian Medical Association statement has made this clearthat there is a great practical difficulty in distinguishing between what is an abortion and what is, for instance, a curette. In other words, if medical benefits were terminated under one heading the operation would soon be described by many members of the medical profession under another heading which attracted subsidy. 
What a farce this debate is in that it is supposed to be in relation to medical funding alone. We have, indeed, the added farcical situation reported in the news today that even if the Lusher motion or some other version of it were passed by this House it would be impractical for the Government to bring legislation into this House conforming with it. We must therefore bring ourselves to realise what the real issues are. I ask the House to take note of a letter from the Catholic Archbishop of Canberra-Goulburn, the Most Reverend E. B. Clancy, which was published the day before yesterday in the  Canberra Times.  In relation to the debate in which we are now engaged he stated: 
It is not so much the morality of abortion that is directly at issue here as the morality of constraining countless citizens of all faiths to violate their consciences in having to pay via Commonwealth medical benefits towards which they consider to be intrinsically immoral and to which, in consequence, they are totally and profoundly opposed. 
I do not want in any way to give the impression that the Archbishop was supporting the line that I am taking. He was supporting the Lusher motion. But it means at least that he understands what is at issue in this debate, namely, the matter of funding. I merely say in response to the point he makes- I respect very sincerely that pointthat I cannot agree that because some people disagree with it, there should be no public funding for something which is legal. In other words let us clear up the legality of the matter where it should be cleared up, in the State parliaments or, in the case of the Territories, with appropriate legislation before this Parliament. Let me make clear the point I am trying to make by asking a question: Should the state not support blood transfusions because Jehovah's Witnesses find them abhorrent? It would be entirely logical to state just that, that we should not fund blood transfusions because there are a number of people in our community who find that particular aspect of medical treatment to be against their consciences and against their morality. We could all find similar examples of matters being funded against the consciences of some members of the community. It is worthwhile also pointing out the opposite argument with which we cannot be impressed, that citizens should be able to opt out of paying taxes for those policies with which they disagree. For instance, pacifists are bound by law to pay their share for defence. 
I cannot agree that this is a matter of antiabortion on the one hand or abortion on demand on the other hand. Some honourable members have tried to show that this is the issue in this debate; far from it. It is a matter of recognising that there is a genuine difference of view as to where life begins. This is a pluralist society and differing views have to be catered for in our legislation. This Parliament and State parliaments have made decisions and will continue to make decisions on these vexed questions. If we do not agree with the State decisions we should do something about seeing that our State colleagues change them. If we do not agree with the decisions taken in the Territories we should do something in the appropriate place about having the appropriate legislation enacted. What we are dealing with here is the matter of funding of medical treatment in relation to decisions on abortions which have already been taken on another occasion by this Parliament or by other Parliaments. If one agrees with the argument that I have just put forward, it is most logical to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for McMillan. At the same time we should all support the proposition for far more adequate funding than is being given at the moment. More adequate funding should be made available for Birthline and other such bodies doing similar types of work so that counselling is available for these people who have to withstand unwanted pregnancies and so that we obtain, through proper educational means, a situation where not more but fewer abortions take place in our community. 
-First of all, I protest in the strongest terms at the way in which the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has brought this matter before the House. He failed to observe the normal courtesies that have been observed here since the Parliament was brought into existence, including the courtesy when a statement is to be made on behalf of the Government of informing the Opposition beforehand. This should be so particularly when a Minister of the status of the Treasurer is seeking leave to make a statement from a representative of the Opposition who is sitting at the table at the time. Instead of interrupting the debate on the abortion issue, as the Treasurer did, he could have allowed us a few minutes to let us at least discover what subject he wanted to bring before the House so that we could determine whether we would grant such leave. 
We have had no opportunity to consider the context in which that decision was made by the relevant Minister of the New South Wales Government. We had no advance knowledge of this matter. We know nothing about the case which has been put by the New South Wales Minister to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. But we do know that there are certain incontrovertible facts, including the fact that as long ago as 1941 the hours worked weekly moved from 48 to 44 hours and that in 1 947 they moved from 44 to 40 hours. Now, 32 years later, when the greatest technological advances that this country has even known have been made, we have seen the usual response from a conservative government when blue-collar workers seek a reduction in the number of hours which they are required to work. How many white collar workers in this country are now working 40 hours a week? Not only do they have enormously better conditions in which to work, but also none of them works more than 35 hours a week. That is the sort of context in which we ought to be looking at a decision such as this. 
On behalf of the Labor Opposition, I declare that we believe in the need for a proper wages and incomes policy. In line with our suggestion that the economy requires stimulus, we believe that it is absolutely essential that that stimulus be provided in the context of an incomes policy so that we do not ricochet into an inflationary situation. At a time when the Commonwealth Public Service- the Public Service over which this Government presides- is working only 36 hours a week, we are not prepared on the spur of the moment to condemn a decision made by the New South Wales Government on the matter of the hours required to be worked. I repeat what I said when I began: A more considered response to this statement will be given when we have had time to look at the arguments put in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission hearing in New South Wales by the relevant State Minister. But the facts which I have given are incontrovertible. If the Treasurer wants to wax loud in an emotional way, as he did about this decision concerning blue collar workers, it is up to him to say something about the Commonwealth public servants working 36 hours a week and to make a change to that. What we want, first of all, is to be allowed the courtesy of being given an opportunity to study the matter which is before us. Next, we want consistency in this Government's wages policy. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bourchier)  adjourned. 
-It is vitally necessary to have this suspension to flush out the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman),  to find out the truth. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 A division having been called for and the bells being rung- 


 Honourable members interjecting- 

In directing my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce, I refer to the takeover battle for Kelvinator Australia Ltd with Email Ltd and Simpson Pope Holdings Ltd as leading participants or, should I say, combatants. Is it a fact that the resulting possible takeover or merger has a profound effect on international competitiveness in sections of the Australian whitegoods industry with consequent effects on employment, regional balance and investment? What result is desired or indeed required by government in the national interest? Has there been appropriate consultation with the 
South Australian Department of Economic Development? In short, is the Federal Government providing the necessary leadership as part of a policy of restructuring and revitalising this sector of manufacturing industry? If not, why not? 
-There are two issues which arise out of the report which is, in effect, a report from the Legislation Committee of the Parliament to this chamber. The first issue is: Was the Fraser Government sincere in wanting a prices justification tribunal at all? In summary, the second issue is: Was it worth while for a Bill such as this one to go to the Legislation Committee? I deal with this in terms of amendments which I moved at the legislation committee stage on this Bill. I remind the House and anybody else interested in this matter that the Legislation Committees are relatively new as far as this Parliament is concerned. 
Instead of having the Committee stages when amendments are moved to Bills in this chamber, representatives of the Government and the Opposition meet in committee rooms to look in a quieter atmosphere at the particular proposals. To date the Bills that have gone to legislation committees have not been controversial Bills on which the Parliament would divide or in which the Opposition has serious philosophical differences with the Government. In this case it was different. There is a real difference of opinion, it seems, between Government supporters and Opposition members on the need for a prices justification tribunal. 
My colleagues and I from the Labor Opposition proposed nine changes at the legislation committee stage. Eight were suggested amendments, two of which, in the end, I did not move for reasons that I will come to; the other proposal was to oppose a clause in the Bill would have the effect of removing from the Act a section which the Opposition believes ought to stay in the Act. 
Before going into the details of the particular initiatives that the Opposition took at the legislation committee stage, I want to make it clear that my colleagues and I believed that all nine initiatives were within the Government's objectives. The Opposition accepted that indeed the second reading stage of the Bill in this House laid the framework for what the philosophies were of the Government and the Opposition respectively, and the Opposition sought to abide by the spirit of setting up legislation committees by moving only amendments which we thought were within the spirit and philosophy of the Government. The Government had the numbers at the second reading stage and the Opposition moved an amendment at that second reading stage. It was defeated but we hoped that some improvements could be made to this Bill, accepting the overall philosophy of the Government. I do not want to canvass what happened at the second reading stage but the House will remember that the Opposition believed that the Bill should not have had a second reading because it abolished the requirement for companies to notify price increases to the PJT. 
We believed that the changes to the Bill would not help to reduce inflation, the reduction of which was vitally necessary at this time when it was increasing in the community. We believed that the Bill exacerbated industrial turmoil because the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission exists as an agency acting as a watchdog in the whole area of wage and salary determination; that for balance we needed an agency in the whole area of prices determination, namely, the PJT, and that it was being made a 'toothless tiger' by what was happening in this Bill. 
Finally, the Opposition did not like the clause in the BUI which proposed to change the Prices Justification Tribunal Act even further than the Government had already changed the Act in its three years of existence, in making the Minister more involved in the decisions of the Tribunal. In other words, the Opposition asserts that this Bill greatly increases the power of the Minister. Accepting that the Opposition was defeated on that, it then moved certain amendments which it believed should have been accepted, even within the Government's own philosophy. I wish to go through those amendments. Three of the amendments were to clause 6. A major criticism of the PJT has been the lack of guidelines in the legislation as to the meaning to be attached to the words 'What is a justified price?' This has led to some inconsistency in the Tribunal's decisions and some conflict with the decisions of related, regulatory bodies. I refer to the Trade Practices Commission and the Industries Assistance Commission. 
We believe that our three proposed amendments to clause 6 overcame this by seeking changes to proposed new section 16 of the Act. Incorporating such general guidelines in new section 16 would also have facilitated an attempt to limit the extent to which the Minister's supervision of the Tribunal could be used for political purposes. Amendments could be made to ensure that ministerial intervention or directives were related to the functions set out for the Tribunal. 
Also the Opposition's amendments 1 to 3 related to new sections 17 (4) and 17A of the Act and would require the Minister to give due regard to the general objectives of the Tribunal, as set out, and to justify his intervention, his directives, in terms of those functions. However, apparently there was no way in which we could get a satisfactory hearing, despite the spirit in which we approached the matter, before the Legislation Committee. The Committee divided on party lines. It did not even need to put the matter to a vote other than on the voices. It was clear, even at that early stage that the Government would not accept in any way the amendments proposed by the Opposition. In fact, such was our frustration that that was as far as we got on Thursday night, 22 March. Government members, because of a debate that was proceeding in the chamber, even decided at that stage that we need not proceed further that night. 
The Legislation Committee met again last night and I moved further amendments. Amendment No. 4, to clause 7, related to notification requirements. We believe that section 18 of the Act needs to be amended so as to reinstitute the requirement of prior notification of price increases by prescribed companies defined as those with an annual turnover of $30m or more which are in a position to use their market situation to set unjustified prices and whose prices, charged during a substantial period, could not be judged as fair and reasonable. 
Inevitably, in view of what had gone on earlier, that amendment was not accepted. In fact, I have to tell the House that we then discovered that Government members had caucused and come to the conclusion that they would solidly oppose, for opposition's sake, all of our amendments. Not one Opposition amendment was accepted. However, I shall proceed to give the details so that the House will be fully informed. I notice that my time is almost at an end. I believe that I am to have a second opportunity to speak, and I would wish to do so. 
Amendment No. 5 relates to clause 8, interim price increases. New section 18B should be amended so as to limit the circumstances under which the Tribunal will be permitted to allow interim price increases while an inquiry is in progress. We wanted also to amend that part of the Act to make such permission conditional upon the company's undertaking to adhere to the Tribunal's recommendation. The details of our submission can be seen in the  Hansard  report of the Legislation Committee's proceedings, but later I shall explain it in more detail. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. If anyone else wishes to speak, I will give him the call and then call again the honourable member for Adelaide. As apparently no other honourable member wishes to speak, I call again the honourable member for Adelaide. 
-I thank the House for the opportunity to continue my remarks uninterrupted by taking advantage of a second period of 10 minutes. We moved amendment No. 5, which relates to clause 8 and to interim price increases, because of our conviction that once companies increased their prices it was almost impossible- whatever the Tribunal decided- to roll those prices back. In fact, there is on the Tribunal moral pressure not to disagree with the price increases. As an illustration, I point out that a lot of the companies that are involved are in the wholesaling field; they are not selling directly to the public. Once they, as wholesalers, have increased their prices, the increases are fed into the prices of retailers and passed on to the public. There is no way in which refunds can be made later or, indeed, prices can be rolled back. Therefore, we believe that our proposed amendment to clause 8 was very necessary. 
I turn now to our proposed amendment No. 6, which is related to clause 9 and to inquiries initiated by the Minister. Section 19, which is amended by clause 9, should be so amended as to institute, in the case of ministerially-initiated inquiries, a pre-inquiry procedure. Such preinquiry procedure would be in all ways comparable with that which obtains in respect of inquiries that the Tribunal itself will be able to initiate. To a great extent we took the wording from new section 1 9aa, which provides for that to be done. It is what I call a 'once over lightly treatment'. Those honourable members who were with me on the Prices Committee of the Parliament will know that it is very necessary in price surveillance to have a pre-inquiry procedure for the purpose of obtaining as much information as possible so that an objective decision can be made whether it is worthwhile to look further into the justification for a given price. The Opposition was convinced that that procedure should be applied to ministerially-initiated inquiries as well as to Tribunal-initiated inquiries, but apparently there was no way in which the Government would accept that proposal either. The Opposition's amendment No. 7 related to clause 10- inquiries initiated by the Tribunal. It was circulated to honourable members but in the end, because of our frustration and the absence of any co-operation from the Government, we did not proceed to move it. However, I think that I will be within Standing Orders if I mention what stimulated us to draw it up. New section 19aa 
should be so amended so that the Minister shall be required to give full reasons for not approving the holding of a Tribunal-initiated inquiry; so that the Ministerial decision would include an assessment of the case of the Tribunal, and of any third party, for an inquiry, as well as the case against it. In our view, such an assessment should be made in terms of the Tribunal's general functions. I repeat; Such was our frustration that we did not move that amendment. The same was true of our proposed amendment No. 8, the details of which I will not give. 
However, I do wish to cite a further debate which took place at the Legislation Committee stage. It concerned clause 14 of the Bill, which the Opposition opposes, relating to biannual reports by the Tribunal. Clause 14 takes out existing section 35a, which we believe should remain. That makes it incumbent upon the Tribunal to issue biannual reports. Since notification is still required, following an inquiry, of certain nominated goods, we believe that the Tribunal ought to do so regularly. Press speculation indicates that the number of notifications in a full year may average 700. Of course, that is only a fraction of the 7,000 which were once required. Nevertheless, it is a significant number. If there is not regular reporting by the Tribunal of these notifications there will be a lack of publicity concerning the activity of firms which have been careless enough to engender an inquiry, even under this weak legislation. Publicity is an important deterrent to price increases and the dropping of section 35a removes the deterrent completely with one qualification, namely, that there is an annual report which, of course, comes down, as the words would indicate, only once a year and well after the event. The Opposition is very disappointed that the Government was not able to accept even that amendment which we moved in the legislation committee. 
The first issue which I believe this report to the Parliament raises, as I said at the beginning of my speech, is: 'Was the Fraser Government sincere in wanting a PJT?' The answer is that I believe that any objective person looking at the  Hansard  report of the legislation committee's two meetings, one last Thursday and the other one last night, would come to the conclusion that the Government is not dinkum about wanting a Prices Justification Tribunal. It is merely a shell of what it was. It is a toothless tiger. It is there for window-dressing so that some workers will be hoodwinked into thinking there is some price surveillance. The way that the Government has stopped us putting even the minimal number of teeth back into the PJT that would have been put back in by our amendment just points up how insincere the Government is in wanting this sort of price surveillance. 
The second question which I raised at the beginning of my speech was: 'Was it worth while for a Bill such as tins one to go to the legislation committee?' I must confess that my first reaction- the Minister knows this from a private conversation that I had with him- was that it was not worth while for such a Bill to go to the legislation committee; we might as well have it out in the House. There was enormous frustration at the meetings. We had hoped that in that sort of atmosphere there might be a meeting of the minds, there might be some compromise, there might even be at least some of our amendments accepted. But such was not the case. There was no sincerity, we assert, in examining objectively the Opposition's amendments. I emphasise that the amendments were, we believe, within the philosophy of the Government. If we really wanted to move amendments which were within our own philosophy I assure the House that they would have been much more numerous and in much more strong terms than the ones we did move. 
However, on further reflection I think I will qualify my answer to that question in the negative by saying that at least we may have saved the House some time. If we had moved all of those amendments at a meeting of the Committee of the Whole I think we would have taken a lot longer than it will take to debate the legislation committee report on this Bill. As the House has allowed somebody leading for the Opposition like myself two 10-minute opportunities to speak and give a full report on what happened before the legislation committee and draw attention to the  Hansard  record of the committee meetings perhaps the business of the House is facilitated and quickened. 
Let me give notice, in conclusion, that the need for the Prices Justification Tribunal will be an election issue. The need for price surveillance is as great as it ever was. The need for a watchdog agency such as the PJT is absolutely essential. What has happened in the legislation committee, I believe the House will now realise from this report I have given, will point out the insincerity of the Government concerning this agency. It does not want an agency; it just wants a mere shell. 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Health, is supplementary to the question asked earlier by the honourable member for Sturt. Is it a fact that the hospital bed day cost in South Australia, in spite of the alleged inefficiencies reported by the South Australian Parliament's Public Accounts Committee, is about $135 per bed day? Is it a fact that the bed day cost in Canberra where the Minister's own Government has responsibility, is about $200 per bed day? How does the Minister justify this discrepancy, particularly in view of the self-righteous answer that he gave the - 

 -Mr Speaker, may I have your indulgence on that point? 
-I wish to make a short statement on the same subject. I have to point out that two teaching hospitals exist in Adelaide, which add to the hospital costs in that city and in South Australia. 
I move: 
That this House- 
1 ) welcomes the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into the Australian Financial System on 18 January 1979, and notes that it follows the initiative in this matter by the honourable Member for Adelaide in the original notice for General Business Thursday No. 8 submitted by him to this House on 2 1 February 1978, and 
) is of the opinion ( a ) that the membership of the Committee is too closely involved with the Capital market to provide a completely detached analysis of its imperfections and (b) that the terms of reference of the Committee (i) are couched in a way to justify claims of political overtones and (ii) give insufficient attention to the social welfare implications of the financial system, particularly its impact on the housing market. 
The petulant announcement two days ago by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  that the Fraser Government is suspending the development of a national companies and securities commission scheme reminds us all too clearly of the failure of governments in this country to provide adequate machinery for the country's development. As Victorians go to the poll this coming Saturday they should remember not only the land scandals in their State and the Victorian Liberal Government's inadequate machinery for dealing with that sector of the capital and development market but also the scandals of the capital market. They should remember the so-called Rae report- the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange into the Australian securities market and its regulation- and what that report disclosed. Let me read some of the headings and headlines to jog our memories about the Rae report. They include: 'Scathing in condemnation of many practices exposed'; 'Improper practices in the making of new issues'; 'insider trading'; 'Share rigging and manipulation'; 'Sundry abuses in the stock market'; 'The Poseidon misadventure'; 'The Minsec collapse'; and 'The troubles of Patrick Partners'. 
The Rae report was tabled in this Parliament five years ago. There have been many scandals and collapses since then. Need I go any further than to mention the collapse of Associated Securities Ltd and Computicket. The collapse of ASL, with its famous establishment names of Ansett and Bolte in the vanguard, would be of interest to the Victorian voters I mentioned earlier. But other collapses have occurred, including organisations such as Mainline, VIP Insurance, Parkes Development, the Queensland Permanent Building Society, Gollin Holdingsand so the list gets longer. At this time of unhappy memories about these collapses and scandals it is not sufficient to deplore the fact that we still have totally inadequate machinery for the regulation of the companies and securities sector. It also must be stated that we have a totally inadequate capital market, which is why the Opposition raises the subject in this debate today. 
Before embarking on the capital market itself I should say something about the related subject of the companies and securities commission scheme. I assert that it is deplorable that we still have no new legislation and no adequate regulatory machinery in this respect. The Whitlam Labor Government introduced a national scheme and it was sabotaged by the LiberalNational Country Party dominated Senate in the name of States rights. It is deplorable also that when one State- New South Wales- exercises its right petulance raises its ugly head and all work is stopped by the Federal Government in this vital area. I place on record my belief that it is essential that the total package is prepared and agreed to by all parties before any legislation is introduced into this Parliament. The total package means not just the Commonwealth Bill setting up the commission but also legislation concerning companies, concerning a takeovers code, concerning securities regulations and so on. We do not want watered down legislation in these fields. I have already reminded the House of the scandals, of the white collar crimes against which the public- particularly small investors- need protection. 
All the signs are that we shall get watered down, unsatisfactory legislation if we proceed in the way the Fraser Government has been going until now. The pressures will be for uniformity rather than reform. The lowest common denominator of the conservative States, of conservative State governments like those of Western Australia and Queensland will prevail unless we are careful. This would certainly be so if reformers were under pressure to agree to legislation hurriedly under the pressure of being told that the expensive apparatus was already in existence. If we went ahead and agreed to the setting up of that expensive apparatus which would be the result of the companies and securities commission Bill, reformers would be under that pressure. We ought to have the full package of legislation first and have it agreed to before any part of it comes into this chamber. 
This is the essence of the argument between New South Wales and the Fraser Government. I hope wiser counsels will prevail here in Canberra and that we shall see progress with that package, that other legislation, which is nowhere near completion. Let me move more specifically to my motion on the capital market. On 21 February 1978, immediately after this House resumed after the last election, I gave notice of a general business motion which stated: 
That a select committee of this House be appointed to inquire into and report upon the Australian capital market and to make recommendations concerning the need to maximise the availability of Australia's limited capital resources to facilitate economic development. 
This was taking up a concept raised by the Opposition in the previous Parliament. It was not something new. My view was than an inquiry into the Australian capital market was long overdue, a view also put forward in the reports of the Vernon and Jackson committees. The last such inquiry was conducted over 40 years ago during the 1937 Royal Commission into the Monetary and Banking System. Subsequently, I was first pleased but then when I looked at it more closely, I was rather disappointed when the Treasurer announced on 1 8 January this year the establishment of a committee to inquire into the Australian financial system. As a result of the Government's belated move, I amended my motion and now move it in the terms which, for those listening to this debate, I will repeat: 
That this House- 
welcomes the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into the Australian Financial System on 18 January 1979, and notes that it follows the initiative in this matter by the honourable member for Adelaide in the original Notice for General Business Thursday No. 8 submitted by him to this House on 2 1 February 1978 and 
b) is of the opinion (i) that the membership of the Committee is too closely involved with the capital market to provide a completely detached analysis of its imperfections and (ii) that the terms of reference of the Committee (A) are couched in a way to justify claims of political overtones and (B) give insufficient attention to the social welfare implications of the financial system, particularly its impact on the housing market. 
Let me explain my apparently contradictory reactions- on the one hand my welcoming of an inquiry, and on the other hand my fears that it may prove less than satisfactory. I was pleased about and welcomed such an inquiry because even a cursory examination of the structure of the Australian capital market indicates that it is in an unsatisfactory state. It consists on the one hand of traditional financial institutions and on the other hand of newer institutions outside the scope of existing legislation and regulations. The problems resulting from this structure are likely to increase because Australia's total capital requirements will increase rapidly over the next decade, exposing the weaknesses of the capital market. This increase reflects a number of factors, among them the capital requirements for modernisation and growth in industry and the likelihood of a shift in the pattern of production towards resource-based export activities and other more capital intensive industries. There would probably be considerable agreement on a number of specific measures to improve the operations of the capital market. Dealing with the problems on an ad hoc basis, however, would run the risk of unforeseen side effects and increasing distortions. 
For this reason it was my view, and the view of my Labor colleagues, that a full scale comprehensive inquiry was necessary. That is why we welcomed it. For this reason also, I not only welcome it but would signify that the Opposition would assist the inquiry in any way that it could, but we have then to look at the disappointments about the inquiry and its establishment. My disappointment and apprehension are the product of the unduly limited terms of reference given to this Committee by the Fraser Government and the unbalanced composition of the Committee 's membership as chosen by this Liberal-National Country Party Government. Not only had I hoped for a comprehensive inquiry, but a truly independent inquiry removed from both the bureaucracy and also removed from domination by vested interests- people representing certain segments in the market, indeed, interest groups of the market. I believe it is necessary to have that independence if there is going to be proper objective assessing of the market. Five people who have spent their lives in this capital market include one who is in the largest property developing company, another in the largest stock broking firm, another in the largest life assurance company, another in public banking, and a fifth one in private banking. 
These five alone, without any of what I would call 'salt and pepper' to garnish them, are hardly the group to give this country a stimulating, progressive report. In other words, this Committee consists of a select group whose work is directly involved with the capital market and all of whom will be directly affected by the outcome of the inquiry. There has been no attempt by the Government to balance the Committee. There is no representative of small business, no reformer who is identified philosophically with the Labor Party. The Labor Party does represent at any one time between 45 per cent and 55 per cent of the people of this country, as any recorded poll would show. There is no scholar from a university on the committee. There is no independent outsider. Where is the person whose efforts can compare with the important contribution made by a great former leader of the Labor Party, Ben Chifley, those efforts which he made in contributing as a member of the 1937 Royal Commission into the Monetary and Banking System? By presenting a different approach to the subject, Ben Chifley stimulated discussion, opened new areas for consideration and broadened and benefited that inquiry enormously. There is no such person amongst the group of members of this inquiry. No attempt has been made to ensure representation of the users of the system, be they the general public or the Government. It is true that submissions can be made by interested parties; however, the presentation of good submissions is no substitute for that wider, more balanced committee membership which we advocate. 
The inadequate composition of the Committee means that there will be strong, defensive interests at play at various fronts. The members may, and probably will, consider any criticism of their respective fields of endeavour as misconceived, as ill-informed, and for the most part not worthy of notice. Any criticism will to an extent be looked upon, construed by the Committee members of that market as criticisms of themselves. Reform of the capital market means different things to different people according to the interests of the persons concerned. For those actually involved in the market, it usually involves the removal of institutional regulations which fetter them, whilst leaving untouched or strengthened the regulations limiting the actual or potential competition from related segments of the market. I hasten to say that this is not a cricitism of the people themselves. I know they are all worthy citizens of this country. What I am sure of is that it is a criticism of those who appointed them without that 'salt and pepper' to stimulate the Committee which I referred to earlier. 
The Committee's terms of reference also are unduly restricted. Not only are social welfare and equity considerations completely absent, but also no mention is made of the use of the capital market for the purpose of government policy, especially monetary and balance of payments measures. Rather the issues which the Committee was asked to examine were prefaced by the preamble which I now read to the House. It states: 
In view of the importance of the efficiency of the financial system - 
Here is the important, underlined part-  for the Government's free enterprise objectives and broad goals for national economic prosperity, the Committee is asked to . . . 
This is a partisan political preamble, not one which has general acceptance across whole areas of this country. We are concerned with this inclusion and the attempt by the Government to prejudice the conclusions of the inquiry as evidenced by this reference. As the advertisement relating to the inquiry has dropped this sentence, I can only speculate that others have expressed concern at the inclusion of this partisan political point also and that the Committee has decided to play down this term of reference. The inclusion of such a sentence would make the task of the committee very difficult, I suggest, if the Government wants balance. The Government is always ready to fly the free enterprise flag when it can see a benefit for itself. However, let us face it, this Government is happy to abandon its free enterprise principle when it suits it. Capitalise the gains and socialise the losses is the slogan which epitomises the actions of the Government. For a committee to have to try to second guess the Government in this area gives it an impossible task indeed. 
The latest outrage to the free enterprise lip service which the Fraser Government has perpetrated in this field has been the instructions given to the Australian Wheat Board to raise $300m under its own steam. The terms of reference, together with the committee 's composition, have therefore virtually assured a list of recommendations which will seek to dismantle many aspects of government intervention in the capital market. Even though these may be correct recommendations and could, in some cases- perhaps in all cases- be supported on this side of the House, they will not be seen to be balanced and supportable by a large section of Australians because of the terms of reference and because of the composition of the committee. Important sources of inefficiency in the capital market may be overlooked and equity considerations are likely to be completely ignored. In considering regulations of the market, the committee may overlook the important role of regulation in achieving both social welfare goals and the objectives of government measures, particularly those dealing with monetary and balance of payments policies, as I mentioned earlier. 
Equity considerations involve, among other things, the position of the small investor and the question of accountability of institutions. The life assurance companies, superannuation and pension funds are of growing influence and importance in the economy. These organisations are able to mobilise large sums of capital and through investment obtain significant shareholdings or even control of publicly listed companies. The positions of these organisations can have real implications for a company, say, in the case of a takeover offer or a fund raising drive. The decisions of these organisations whether to support such ventures have a far reaching effect both for the company and for the position of the organisation. Such decisions are made on behalf of a membership which, though nominally responsible for electing its governing body, has little or no recourse if it dislikes decisions made on its behalf. To suggest that members could withdraw is unrealistic and in many cases untrue, for instance, in relation to the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund. The question of how accountability can be instigated into such organisations is of great importance especially to the membership. Is it likely to be of great importance to the members of the Committee as constituted? That is the question I raise in this debate, particularly as social welfare and equity considerations have not been explicitly referred to in the terms of reference. 
I could use many more examples of why I am apprehensive because of the limited terms of reference and because of the unbalanced membership of the Committee. Matters which should be taken into consideration will not duly be taken into consideration. I am happy to have the support of the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown).  During his speech in this debate he will refer to the effect of the capital market on the housing industry in this country. I understand that he will devote a lot of what he has to say in this debate to that particular area. The examples I have given and many more I could have given and what the honourable member for Parramatta will bring to our attention, clearly indicate that market solutions cannot always be relied upon. Most insiders respond by saying that existing commercial lenders will usually be prepared to provide such funds where they can be shown to be commercially viable. That is not satisfactory. The issues need to be investigated. I am not confident that this will happen adequately with this committee and with these terms of reference. 
I would have liked to have said something about the effect of taxation on the capital market but I notice that I have not the time to do that. One can only hope that the Committee's members are aware of the dangers of narrowly interpreting their terms of reference and of taking predictably defensive positions in line with the interests of those segments of the capital market which they represent. Only if they are aware of this and take corrective action accordingly, will all the issues be assessed with the objectivity that is required. The Committee members should not have been put into this position. This has happened because of the Government's errors in not establishing in the first place a truly independent inquiry with adequate terms of reference. I fear the resultant report will be of limited usefulness. In many instances the recommendations might only compound the deficiencies in the capital market. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. Is there a seconder to the motion? 
-On behalf of the Labor Opposition in this national Parliament, I have much pleasure in welcoming this ministerial statement. I do so for two reasons. The first reason is the fact that the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  has had the courtesy to take this Parliament into his confidence by telling it what he has been up to over the last 48 hours or so outside of the Parliament. Secondly, and more importantly, I welcome the statement for its general nature. The Opposition has no major objections to it, although we have some comments to make and qualifications to outline. Like the State Government of Queensland, the statement is in two parts. The two parts of this statement live together rather more happily than the two parts of the State Government of Queensland. 
I wish to make a few remarks about the footwear industry, which is one of those two parts dealt with in the statement. Before getting to the substance of what the Minister had to say in his ministerial statement about the tripartite footwear industry productivity group, I take this opportunity to pay tribute to and to congratulate the Australian Boot Trade Employees Federation on its centenary. 1 have valuable associations with that trade union, particularly with  Mr Stan  Bidmeade, its federal secretary, and with a number of the State secretaries. I take the House into my confidence by stating that the State secretary in 1969 was my campaign manager when I came into this place, so I have a very warm affection for the Boot Trade Employees Federation. As the Minister knows, there is enormous co-operation from that trade union in a number of areas. He mentioned the co-operation and the establishment of the tripartite footwear industry productivity group. Perhaps if he had had an opportunity to make a longer statement he might have mentioned the Footwear Industry Advisory Council, which was one of the 1 1 or 12 councils which grew out of the Jackson Committee study into the manufacturing industry. The Whitlam Labor Government must be congratulated on the report which resulted from that study, inasmuch as it chose the personnel who conducted it. 
As honourable members know, that Committee recommended the setting up of these industry councils. As a member of the Footwear Industry Advisory Council, I have attended a number of meetings and have noted the growing co-operation between the unions and the employers, with help from the Government, in those tripartite discussions. It is good to learn publicly from the Minister's statement- of course, I did know privately- of the continuing valuable work of the productivity group. It is valuable to note that productivity increases are taking place. As one of the qualifications in respect of his statement, I would suggest that it is a little less than accurate to suggest that the major reason for the work force increase in the footwear industry was the work of the tripartite footwear productivity industry group. I think the Minister would concede that, indeed, the quotas that were put on the industry were enormously important in bringing about stability and security in the industry and allowing the productivity increases to take place. 
I take this opportunity to draw the attention of the House to that part of the recommendations of the Crawford Study Group on Structural Adjustment which suggested that this country ought to have what the group called 'industry specific policies', a term it borrowed from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. I think this would be better described as specific policies for certain industries in this country. Clearly, one of the industries which the Crawford Study Group had in mind was the footwear industry, because it is a highly labour intensive industry and thus a very sensitive one. The Opposition has been advocating these specific industry policies for at least a year now. I am on public record to that effect. The Opposition is glad to note this particular recommendation, among other recommendations, of the Crawford Committee. The Opposition has gone a stage further now and has led the way in announcing that it would set up a textiles and clothing authority for the textiles and clothing industry. This is relevant because currently the Opposition is negotiating with all the relevant parties within and without the footwear industry concerning improved machinery for determining the future of the footwear industry. 
I want the House to know that the Opposition, in developing this policy, hopes that the reaction will not be the same as it has been from one narrow quarter in relation to our announcement concerning a textile and clothing industry authority. I refer to the 4 May 1979 copy of  Inside Canberra  written by  Mr Rod  Chalmers and his staff. Every sentence of a paragraph headed ALP Swings to High Protection ' is incorrect.  Mr Chalmers,  or whoever he got to write this particular paragraph, built the statement on a Press release put out jointly by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and myself. I have ascertained that  Mr Chalmers  did not have the courtesy to get in touch with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. He certainly did not have the courtesy to get in touch with me. I can assure the House and anybody else who is interested in this matter that the setting up of an authority in this area, as indeed would apply to the setting up of an authority in the footwear area, does not mean a swing to high protection. It would mean a proper integration of the work that is going on in the Industries Assistance Commission, work that is going on in the Quota Review Committee and, in this case, the work that is going on in the tripartite footwear productivity group within the Department of Productivity. The Opposition believes that integration is necessary for the proper ordering and better management of an industry such as the footwear industry. 
I would have liked to have the opportunity and time to go over in detail each of the incorrect statements made in the inaccurate paragraph by  Mr Chalmers  on the setting up of a textile and clothing authority. I believe I would have been relevant if we had already made an announcement about the setting up of a footwear authority. However, I may be testing you a little  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if I spend more time on the textile and clothing industry instead of getting back to the footwear industry. I end this part of my comments on the Minister's statement by saying that it is vital to have that better machinery for the proper integration of government action to assist this industry. The Opposition is glad to see work going on in this productivity group and it is glad to see the work of the Quota Review Committee, but there might be merit in bringing them together. On that regard further announcements will be made by the Opposition at a later date. 
The other part of the Minister's statement concerned his launching of the booklet  'Employee Participation: A Broad View'.  He did so not only as the Minister for Productivity but also as  Chairman  of the National Employee Participation Steering Committee. The Opposition is glad that the Minister has overcome the conservative thinking of his colleagues and, indeed, the conservative thinking of many industrialists in this nation by getting on with the job of drawing attention to the value of worker participationthe value of what is called, in many quarters, industrial democracy. It would be deficient of me if I did not take this opportunity to pay tribute to the pioneering work in Australia by someone in government- the pioneering work done by  Mr Don  Dunstan, the former Premier of South Australia, and his Labor Government in South Australia. That work has been much maligned and much misrepresented. Hopefully, at least one Minister in this Government is slowly pushing his colleagues into recognising the value of the work started by the South Australian State Government. The South Australian Premier,  Mr Des  Corcoran, has now gone on record as endorsing what his predecessor said by offering his co-operation to the Federal Government. He recognises that it is far more appropriate for the Federal Government to take a lead in this area of industrial democracy. 
As the Minister knows, we are not pioneering as far as the rest of the world is concerned. We are well behind other countries in the development of employee participation. I draw attention to a speech made by my colleague the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young). 
-It was an excellent speech. I had the pleasure of reading it in full today. It was made last week in Perth to a national congress of the Australian Society of Accountants. The honourable member for Port Adelaide pointed out that it is not just the Yugoslav concept of selfmanagement that we have in mind when we say we are behind other countries in this field. We only have to look to such countries as the Federal Republic of Germany, Sweden, Norway, the Netherlands and Austria, to mention but a few, to recognise that much work has taken place already in developing employee participation. It is interesting to note that most, if not all, of those countries have had social democratic governments which have spurred on this valuable work. 
The Labor Party is firmly committed to industrial democracy. We do not just emphasise the productivity gains to be achieved; we believe that it is morally correct to be committed to democracy everywhere. Just because a man or a woman walks through the gate of his or her work place, it does not mean that democracy should stop. This particularly applies because of our increasingly educated work force. If we are to have satisfaction at the place of work, we have to have democracy at the place of work. I repeat that we cannot allow democracy to be surrendered at the gates or doors of our factories and work places. We must see that democracy applies there as well. In a gentle way I rebuke the Government for suggesting that all of this subject has to be seen in the context of productivity. I recognise, however, that the Minister said that the Government sees employee participation as an essential tool for productivity improvement as well as improving the quality of work life. I would rather that he put the emphasis the other way round. We recognise that an improvement of productivity is needed if we are to have an increasing standard of living. I mention in that context that we on this side of the House would be happy about that additional productivity only if the benefits of it were well spread, not only to those in jobs but also to those outside the work place at the present time, some of those half a million people who are unemployed. 
We cannot have a proper spread of the benefits of productivity if we continue to have a government which knocks the public sector, which suggests that it is not right and proper for the public sector- the government sector- to create jobs. There has to be a spread of benefits in this way. Of course some firms in our community do not need stimulus from government to ensure that there is proper employee participation. I take this opportunity of paying tribute to Simpson Pope Ltd in my own State which has improved the work place for its employees. This has had marvellous results. I wish I had more time to give other examples. Awareness of government and stimulus from government will help in many other places where employee participation does not exist. I hope that the Minister will give consideration to bringing out the booklet in a more popular form. It is heavy reading and I believe that the message should be more widely spread. If the language were in a more popular form it would help that to happen. 
Increasingly the Parliament is being sidestepped or kept in the dark concerning variations in the level of assistance given to industry. One of the Bills which illustrates this is the Bounty (Rotary Cultivators) Bill 1979 which we are debating. The uncertainty and the inconsistency surrounding this Bill, which I will outline in a moment, make it just another victim of the inadequate procedures adopted by the Government in announcing and explaining decisions made on advice from the Industries Assistance Commission and the Temporary Assistance Authority. Tariff changes, whilst the subject of advice from the IAC or the TAA are brought before this House by means of an antiquated procedure which effectively prevents debate on individual issues. As a result, lengthy research is required just to discover how the Government has evaluated the independent advice which it has received from the IAC and the TAA. Even then, there is no guarantee that any acceptable rationale will be found for the action which the Government has taken. 
Bounties are debated in this House because they are a direct form of Government expenditure. They come before the House as the subject of numerous bounty Bills. At the moment we have five such Bills on the Notice Paper, of which this is only one. But this has not prevented the Government from concealing the true nature of and the reasoning behind the Government's decisions on independent advice from either the IAC or the TAA. As a result, this House is treated with contempt when it comes to variations in the level of government assistance to Australian industry. This Bill before the House is a typical example of that. 
The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  in his second reading speech, which he made when he introduced this Bounty (Rotary Cultivators) Bill 1979, did not give answers to four questions which are absolutely essential to an understanding of the Bill. The first question is: What was the recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission relating to this Bill? The second question one asks, on learning that the Government did not accept the recommendation of the IAC- that could be learnt not from the second reading speech, but by referring to the IAC report- is: Why did the Government not accept all the Commission's recommendations? The third essential question, having established that some of the recommendations were not accepted, is: Why were those recommendations not accepted? An independent advisory body, at great expense to the taxpayers of this nation, studied an industry- in this case, the industry which manufactures rotary cultivators- and came up with recommendations which the Government did not accept. Why did the Government not accept those recommendations? 
The fourth pertinent question, not answered in any way in the Minister's second reading speech, is: Why did the Government make the decisions it made; in other words, what is the rationale underlying the level of assistance actually decided upon by the Government and set forth in the second reading speech? This House of the Parliament, in the second reading speech, was presented with a flimsy, inadequate outline of what is contained in the Bill. The second reading speech contains what I allege to be misleading words. The Minister stated: 
Following advice and recommendation from the Industries Assistance Commission in its . . . report  . . it has been decided to . . . 
That just is not so. The decisions arrived at by the Government did not follow the advice of the IAC. You,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  have had to sit through a number of debates on this subject. They do not deal with the most riveting of the subjects to which the House has to address its attention, but these subjects are vitally important when it comes to employing people and ensuring that industry in this country is healthy. As you will know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  very rarely have I had to disagree with decisions taken by the Government because, to a great extent, it has followed IAC recommendations. But recently there have been a number of cases in which this has not happened. I will cite a few of those cases later. I want to make it clear that my main complaint is that this House is given insufficient reasons for the IAC's advice not being followed. The words which I quoted are now appearing in second reading speeches, irrespective of the nature of the Government's decision on IAC or the TAA recommmendations. Those words have become so usual that they are meaningless and misleading. They have the effect of lulling the listener or the reader into the sometimes false belief that the Government has accepted the independent advice of the IAC or the TAA. That is not always so. 
The Government's failure to identify and to explain its decisions on independent advicewhether on tariff, bounty or quota changesgenerally has two effects. Most obviously, it denies easy access to information on whether the Government has accepted the advice of the IAC or the TAA and why it has made that decision. It makes a sham of the independent advisory process. It would be more honest and less hypocritical- if I may use that strong term- if the independent advisory processes were dropped completely. It would be better if the Government, instead of treating the House in a cavalier manner, just said: 'This is the decision we have come to. It is not built on any independent advice. Sure, we have had to go through the motions of putting the matter to the IAC, but we think the IAC report is worthless. Therefore, we have come to this conclusion.' This could be for all sorts of reasons, maybe something to do with funds going to political parties. I am not happy that that is the way in which such decisions have been arrived at. Less obviously, what has happened enables inconsistencies and pork barrelling to creep into the process. That is evidenced by the double standards often apparent in the approach adopted towards protection. 
I ask the House to compare the Government's recent decisions concerning assistance provided to producers of tyres, on the one hand, and to the citrus industry on the other hand. The Government accepted heavy cuts in tariffs on tyres, as recommended by the IAC. However, for reasons which were never explained to this House, let alone debated in the House, the Government rejected the advice of the Industries Assistance Commission concerning assistance to the producers of orange juice. Instead, the Government decided to provide a high level of assistance to the latter, yet penalised the former. The suspicion of pork barrelling, which inevitably follows this sort of decision, is the direct result of the procedures adopted by the Governmentprocedures, I assert, which avoid explanation and which avoid debate. Maybe there are good reasons for this sort of decision being made. If I were told the reasons and enabled to make a judgment on them, I would be able to accept those reasons. But we have not been given those reasons in the second reading speech. They are not properly explained to us and, therefore, to the people. 
Those procedures, which I have stated I believe are misleading, are contrary to the intentions of  Sir John  Crawford when in 1973 he recommended the establishment of an independent advisory body to make recommendations on assistance to industry. Certainly, they are contrary to the intentions of the Whitlam Labor Government when it established the IAC and the TAA. This Government is abusing the system which was laid down in those years. The time has come for the Government to approach the whole matter with more honesty and with greater candour than it has approached it hitherto in a number of these types of cases. I am not asserting that there were many. I have given a couple of examples and I am particularly annoyed about this one. 
The Bill illustrates clearly the need for a change in the procedures by which decisions about varying levels of assistance are announced, explained and debated. We do not deny that it is the prerogative of the Government to make the final decision. However, we do expect full and candid disclosure by the Government of its decisions on the independent advice that it receives, as well as some explanation of those decisions. The explanation as to why these decisions have been arrived at may be simple but, I repeat, we have just not been given it. 
Alternatively, the Minister could say to the House- I would accept it readily- that the Department or someone on his staff had slipped up; that that was the reason why the full facts had not been given on this occasion. I would accept that, too. The Minister has a busy portfolio. But I would want to know more. I had the choice of spending even more time than I had been able hitherto to find out some of the answers, but it just seemed to me to add insult to injury to have to pursue it privately. It is better that it should be brought out into the open here; that I should express my disappointment in the hope that procedures will be improved in future. 
I would like to give some of the background to this Bill and the work that I have done in coming to my conclusion, so that the House will be aware of why I am annoyed. That involves chronicling the events which indicate so clearly the inadequacies and deficiencies of procedures which can result in a Bill such as this coming before the House without adequate explanation. On 6 October 1978 the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs asked the Industries Assistance Commission to inquire into and advise upon whether assistance should be accorded to the production in Australia of rotary cultivators having a power of less than 15 kilowatts. The Minister asked for a report within 60 days as to the necessity for short term- that is, urgentassistance. Also, the Commission was given 12 months in which to consider the nature of long term assistance required in the production in this country of rotary cultivators. Only Howard Rotavator Pty Ltd of Northmead in New South Wales- I will refer to it hereafter as Howardgave evidence at the public hearings into the question of short term assistance. Howard is the sole producer of pedestrian-operated rotary cultivators and one of the only two producers of tractor-operated rotary cultivators. The company requested short term assistance by means of a bounty equivalent to 20 per cent of the materials input cost for each model of the goods under reference. It asked that such assistance cover both pedestrian-operated and tractor-operated rotary cultivators for both domestic use and export. 
Howard requested this urgent assistance to compensate for the tax effect of tariffs incorporated in materials input; in other words, in order to make one of these rotary cultivators, it had to use imports which were subject to tariffs, and wanted compensation therefor. Company representatives said that the extra costs it incurred because of the tariff on the imports made their product uncompetitive against similar imported products. Howard asked for $45 per unit for pedestrian-operated rotary cultivators, and for an average of $150 for tractor-operated rotary cultivators. 
Following consideration of the request and the evidence the IAC, on 6 December 1978, issued its report. The Commission recommended assistance only for pedestrian-operated rotary cultivators, produced for home consumption. That is, it recommended against the provision of short term assistance both in respect of tractoroperated rotary cultivators and pedestrianoperated rotary cultivators which were exported. In particular, the Commission recommended, first, that a bounty at the rate of $20 per kilowatt of engine power of the prime mover, be paid on the production and sale in Australia of pedestrian-operated rotary cultivators. This represents a bounty of about $45 for the type of pedestrian-operated rotary cultivator manufactured by Howard. Secondly, it recommended that the bounty be paid on machines with a local content of not less than 60 per cent of the total factory costs. Thirdly, it recommended that the total bounty payments in any one year be limited to $60,000. 
In a joint Press release of 7 February of this year, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs announced that the Government considered that the level of assistance that had been recommended by the Commission might not be adequate'. They gave no explanation as to why they believed this to be so. They merely made the bald assertion that the assistance might not be adequate. Additionally, the Government announced that it would pay a bounty on the production and sale in Australia of pedestrian-operated rotary cultivators at the rate of $40 per kilowatt of engine power, and not $20 per kilowatt as recommended by the IAC. However, again no reasons were given for the doubling of the bounty rate. The Government also announced, inexplicably, that it intended to set a limit of $60,000 to the bounty payable in any year. That had been the level recommended by the Commission. Again, no explanation was offered as to why the Government, having doubled the rate of bounty, had not also doubled the limit. Honourable members will recall that the IAC had recommended a payment of $20 per kilowatt, with a limit of $60,000. The Ministers stated that the payment was to be double that sum, but nevertheless the limit was to remain at $60,000. Even more incredibly, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, in his second reading speech on the Bill, failed to make any reference to the fact that the Government had rejected some of the advice of the IAC. As a result, he also offered no explanation as to why he or the Government had rejected that advice and had opted to double the bounty rate. 
Therefore, we have a situation in which the Government has overturned a recommendation made to it by the IAC but has given this House absolutely no indication of that fact or of its reasons for so doing. I repeat, the Opposition does not deny to the Government the right to reject the advice of the IAC. Nor does it take issue on the ground of the moneys involved. The amount, $60,000, is some would say a mere bagatelle. It is the principle that is involved that is important. The decision made may have been the correct one. But justice must not only be done; it must be seen to be done. 
We take issue with the fact that no mention of the Government's rejection of the advice of the IAC was made in the second reading speech of the Minister, nor was any explanation given. It has been left to us in opposition, and everyone else for that matter, including the IAC to ascertain. I do not know who else would be applying their minds to this subject. It happens to be one of the duller duties of the Opposition to involve itself in such detail. We do not have a whole department behind us, as do Government members. It has been left to us in opposition to realise the nature of the Government's decision, to try to understand it, to carry out our own investigations to try to guess what is in the mind of the Government. 
The Government should not leave these matters completely to our inquiries, even if those inquiries were to be successful and we were to understand what was the position. It adds insult to injury when our inquiries prove, as they have done, inconclusive and puzzling. One source told us that Howard had asked for bounty protection not only for rotary cultivators produced for home consumption but also for those produced for export. The source implied that the doubling of the bounty rate was intended to provide assistance for production for both domestic and export sales. In other words, double up on the domestic sales and that will help to offset what was required on the export sales. If that was the intention, which frankly I doubt, it does not explain why the Government did not double the limit to the bounty payment from $60,000 to $120,000. Further, if it had been brought out in the open that that was the purpose of the additional amount, such action would have been in contravention of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which prohibits subsidies on exports. 
Another source put forward yet another explanation. That source argued that Howard had indicated that a bounty of $ 1 50 per unit was required to make local production more competitive with imports. He reasoned that a bounty rate of $90 per unit would be more appropriate than the $45 per unit recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission. However, this explanation conflicts with evidence presented to the IAC inquiry. Remembering that this recommendation came from the Temporary Assistance Authority and is of a temporary nature only, an Industries Assistance Commission inquiry is going on at the same time to determine what the long term nature of assistance should be. When I refer to evidence to the IAC helping me to try to understand what is at the bottom of these decisions I am referring to evidence in relation to that IAC inquiry from which we have not yet had a result. In fact, if we take that evidence from the IAC inquiry, Howard requested urgent assistance to compensate the company for the tax effect of tariff on imported components which company representatives estimated to be about $45 per unit for pedestrian operated rotary cultivators. The IAC recommended the granting of Howard's request in full. Did the Government become confused with Howard 's request for an average bounty of $150 per unit for tractoroperated rotary cultivators? The Minister rejected that request explicitly in his Press release in February. 
Perhaps the Government felt that the annual production estimate implicit in the IAC's recommendation, namely, 1,250 units, was too optimistic and that a figure of 625 units was more realistic. The figure of 625 was certainly the average figure for the 1976-77 and 1977-78 production, but frankly the seven years before that period saw production vary between 1 ,020 units and 1,454 units. If the Government felt that a level of production around 625 units was more realistic, at least in the short term, why did it not explain this? Why did all these conflicting views emanate from my sources and why indeed does the Government still not reconcile the request from the one and only company, as far as I know, which is receiving a bounty under this Bill? 
Given the vacuum, instead of a satisfactory rationale for the Government's decision, we in opposition can be excused for seeking other less charitable explanations. For example, publicity just prior to the release of the IAC's report in December last year criticised the Government's record in assisting this industry. These Press reports highlighted the drastically different treatment meted out to Howard, the beneficiary of this bounty, on the one hand, and to Norton Villiers Australia Pty Ltd, which is the manufacturer of engines used in machinery including rotary cultivators and which is rumoured to be owned by members of the Liberal Party in Ballarat, on the other hand. Norton Villiers has apparently been the subject of five inquiries since 1962, while Howard has struggled to get this one inquiry. This is despite the large contribution which Howard makes to employment in the area in which it operates. Perhaps the Government thought that by acting in a generous fashion towards Howard on this one occasion, the adverse implications of the publicity which it received earlier could be ignored and left behind. A final irony in all of this is that Howard has rejected the bounty assistance and has described it as being insufficient. The company did not criticise the bounty rates, however, but the limit placed on the bounty payments. In his evidence to the continuing inquiry into long term assistance in March this year, the managing director of Howard expressed dissatisfaction with the Government's decision. I quote his words:   the bounty or subsidy of $40 per kilowatt (i.e. $90 per unit) on pedestrian tillers on the face of it appears generous, but the limitation of $60,000 per annum does nothing to help me effectively compete in the market place. 
Not only has the Government refrained from telling the Parliament why it has decided to be more generous, but it has also failed to please the company to which the generosity was aimed. The wash-up of all of this is that the Opposition cannot support this Bill under these circumstances. On behalf of the Opposition I therefore move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the House declines to give the Bill a second reading until the Government gives the House a satisfactory explanation, inter alia, as to- 
why the Government considered that the level of short-term assistance on the production and sale in Australia of pedestrian operated rotary cultivators which was recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission might not be adequate; 
why the House was not informed that the Government had rejected the recommendations of the Commission relating to this matter; and 
why the Minister in his second reading speech did not explain the reasons for deciding on a bounty which is double the rate recommended by the Commission'. 
Further, the Opposition urges the Government to reconsider the whole manner in which decisions about assistance variations are announced, explained and debated in this Parliament. 
-At last the Government has been flushed out as to the reasons it has made the decisions which give rise to this Bill. The fact is that in spite of all the huffing and puffing of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)-  we might even call it blustering- the Government was caught with its pants down. In the Minister's second reading speech we had merely two paragraphs which did not explain satisfactorily to anyone looking objectively at this Bill why the Government had arrived at the decisions at which it had arrived. I hope that this exercise in relation to this Bill will show the Minister that in future he should not accept from his Department a second reading speech which does not give members of this chamber adequate information upon which we can debate a measure of this sort. 
The Minister has now made the clarifications that were required. I am grateful to him for taking the trouble to make the decision last night to adjourn the debate on this measure so that he could get the necessary advice. He has had the courtesy to do that. I thanked him for doing so last evening and I thank him again. I hope that he will concede that the information he gave to the House in his reply to the second reading debate should have been in his second reading speech at the start of the debate. In this Committee stage I will talk to those clauses which set a bounty rate. I remind honourable members that my objections at the second reading stage were that the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission had not been followed in decisions that were taken by the Government and reflected in this Bill. I should have referred to recommendations of the Temporary Assistance Authority. 
It was the IAC. I thank the Minister. There was no explanation of why the recommendations, even though short term, were different from what is in the Bill. Indeed, the rate in the Bill is double that recommended in the IAC report. It is really quite irrelevant to tell us that this measure is short term. 
The Opposition was not objecting to the decision itself or to the Government's right to take a decision which is different from what had been recommended by the IAC. As would be clearly seen from the wording of the amendment I moved at the second reading stage, the Opposition was objecting to the fact that in the Minister's second reading speech he had not told us that what he had decided upon was different from what was contained in the IAC report. We had to find that out for ourselves. I believe that on these occasions we have the right to be told that sort of thing. Then he did not tell us why he differed from the IAC report. Thirdly, he did not justify doubling the bounty recommended by the 
IAC. He said that the gaps were not intentional. I accept his word that they were not intentional. 
I had no choice but to ring the Minister's office to find out all this additional information. I think that all honourable members, even honourable members on the other side of the chamber who have little goodwill for me, will recognise that we in the Opposition lead a busy life and that shadow Ministers who have the activities of three Ministers to oversee lead particularly busy lives. It is not my function to ring the Minister's office or departments to gain this information; it is my function to flush out in this Parliament any deficiencies. I believe that by the exercise we have undertaken in respect of this Bill we have flushed out a deficiency. I believe that in future the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs will not make flimsy second reading speeches and that adequate information will be provided in those second reading speeches to justify the decisions which have been made and to explain why they have been made if they are different from the recommendations made by independent authorities. 
Last night the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  and today the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short)  and the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  misrepresented, I believe wilfully, the position which we in the Opposition have taken. They did not have to listen to any speeches to get the position clear; all they had to do was to read the amendment we moved to the motion for the second reading of this Bill. A lot of their speeches was built on the assumption that we were against the bounty being paid to Howard Rotavator Pty Ltd. That conclusion cannot be drawn from anything that we said in our speeches or from the amendment we moved. We objected to the Minister bringing from the Government to this chamber insufficient information to justify its decisions. I repeat: Honourable members do not have to mishear what has been said in the debate or to misread the  Hansard  record of the debate; all they have to do is to look at the amendment we moved to the motion for the second reading of the Bill to get the gist of what we were doing. 
If the honourable member for Mitchell is responsible for  Mr Tinkler  coming all the way from the honourable member's electorate to this Parliament tonight, he is responsible for additional expense being incurred by  Mr Tinkler's  company because the honourable member must have misrepresented me and misrepresented the position we have taken. In no way are we an adversary of the company receiving the bounty. We are a critic of the Government for not explaining its reasons for making the decisions it has made. As part of the wilful misrepresentationit is certainly a misrepresentation, if not wilful- the Minister repeated what it was suggested earlier I had said, namely, that the company concerned was dissatisfied with the amount it had received. He said that I had said that incorrectly. I repeat: In no way can I be accused of having said that incorrectly. What  Mr Tinkler  said at further Industries Assistance Commission inquiries is on record. He said that he did not complain about the amount of bounty per unit, but that he did quarrel with the Government about its putting a limit of $60,000 on the amount to be expended. I do not ask honourable members to rely upon anything I have said; I have indicated what is recorded in the transcript of proceedings when  Mr Tinkler  appeared before further IAC inquiries on this matter. 
I end my speech as I began, by saying that all the huffing, puffing and blustering in the world will not avoid the crux of this matter, namely, the fact that the Government has not properly explained its decision to this chamber. Prior to the Minister closing the second reading debate on this Bill, the Government had not explained why it made the decision it did. It did not even take this chamber into its confidence when it should have owned up to rejecting independent advice from the IAC concerning the amount of bounty. I repeat: The Government did not explain sufficiently the reasons for making its decision. I hope that in future we will not have any more of those flimsy second reading speeches and that this chamber will be informed properly of the reasons why the Government reaches the decisions at which it arrives. 
I ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs: Has the Government a preference for the site of the proposed National Companies and Securities Commission? Has the Minister noted the advice of  Senator Peter  Rae that a compromise is needed between Melbourne and Sydney, both of which cancel each other out, and that Canberra should be the site? Will the Minister reject that advice, which would be ridiculed by the business community and would worsen government-business relations, and support instead, as has been anticipated already, a preferable compromise, namely, a State capital with a relatively large, thriving business community, already the home of a number of national head offices- a relatively central city with good communications to and from the main centres - 

 Honourable members interjecting; 


 -Mr Speaker, I have an inkling that some honourable members have already anticipated the name of the city to which I refer. Accordingly, I need not mention it, other than to say that it is one which, for decentralisation and many other reasons, should become the white collar capital of Australia. 
-As the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  indicated, we are debating cognately three bounty Bills, namely, the Bounty (Bed Sheeting) Amendment Bill, the Bounty (Dental Alloys) Bill and the Bounty (Paper) Bill. As all of these Bills conform with the recommendations made by the relevant authorities- that is, the Temporary Assistance Authority and the Industries Assistance Commission- the Opposition does not oppose them. However, as the person leading for the Opposition in this debate, I have some comments to make on all three Bills. I would also like to make some general comments on the Government's use of bounties, which are only a part of an industry policy. In addition, I will make some comments on the future of the clothing and textile industry when I deal with the Bounty ( Bed Sheeting) Amendment Bill. 
The Bounty (Paper) Bill 1979 gives effect to the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission in its report No. 183 dated 17 October 1978 and entitled 'Certain Paper and Paperboard '. This report recommended the payment of a bounty to eligible Australian manufacturers of specified coated and uncoated paper which is produced and sold for use in Australia. The IAC recommended a bounty at the rate of $90 per tonne on specified coated paper and $70 per tonne on specified uncoated paper. It also recommended that the bounty should operate for eight years. A limit of $2. 5m of bounty payable has been set. This figure represents a midpoint between the $2m to $3m recommended by the IAC. 
The next Bill on my list, the Bounty (Dental Alloys) Bill gives effect to the recommendations of the Temporary Assistance Authority in its report of 5 February 1979 on this subject of dental alloys. The Bill accords assistance by way of bounty to the manufacture in Australia of dental alloys. The TAA recommended that 'urgent action be taken to provide assistance to the industry producing dental alloy' and that assistance be granted in the form of a bounty of $ 1 5 per kilogram of dental alloy produced in Australia up to a maximum of 3,000 kilograms; that is, a limit of $45,000 per annum in bounty payments. This assistance is to be a temporary measure until such time as the Industries Assistance Commission has conducted an inquiry into the long term assistance requirements of the dental alloy industry. 
The Opposition is concerned with two aspects of this Bill. Our first concern is that in clause 3, against the general heading of 'the period to which this Act applies', the following words appear:  period to which this Act applies ' means the period that commenced on 22 December 1978 and ends on 21 December 1 979 or on such later date as is fixed by Proclamation, being a Proclamation published in the  Gazette  before 2 1 December 1979, as the date after which bounty is not to become payable under this Act; 
Our understanding of the purpose of this Bill is that it is to give temporary assistance to this industry until such time as a full inquiry can be undertaken. The Opposition is concerned that such a provision is included in this Bill, because it will allow the Government to continue to extend the period over which bounty may be paid simply by making an Executive directive. We would like to see included in the Bill a time limit on the payment of the bounty which is not subject to alteration by Executive directive. This is not to say- and I am not to be misinterpretedthat we are against bounty being paid on dental alloys. This matter concerns procedure in this House. We believe that the Parliament ought to have control over such payments and that the control should not be left to Executive directive. I believe that in many cases there is a bipartisan approach to the appropriation of money by way of Executive directive. 
I am glad to have a 'hear, hear' from the honourable member for Swan just to illustrate that there is a bipartisan approach when it comes to these procedures. We would like to see included in the Bill a time limit on the payment of the bounty not subject to alteration through Executive directive. In setting such a time limit plenty of time should be allowed for the IAC to make its recommendation, recognising that it has a lot of work to do. Relevant to this point also, we draw the Government's attention to clause 7(1) which states: 
The amount available for payment of bounty in respect of dental alloy in respect of which bounty becomes payable in the year that commenced on 22 December 1978, or in any succeeding year, is $45,000. 
The phrasing of this clause implies that the time over which the payment of the bounty may be made is unlimited. As I understand the words, no restriction is imposed such as 'until such time as the IAC has made its final recommendation' or until the Parliament reviews the matter'. We in the Opposition are concerned at the bypassing of Parliament in these matters, as I have indicated earlier, especially when the bounty assistance is being introduced on an allegedly temporary basis. 
The third bounty Bill being considered is the Bounty (Bed Sheeting) Amendment Bill. The purposes of this Bill are twofold: Firstly, to increase the limit of the amount of the available bounty and, secondly, to widen the eligibility criteria in respect of bountiable sheeting. The Bill incorporates the recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report entitled 'Conditions for Eligibility for Bed Sheeting Bounty' of 7 August 1978 and 'Further Short Term Assistance Arrangements for Textiles, Clothing and Footwear' of 25 October 1977. In the report on assistance for textiles, clothing and footwear the IAC made a number of recommendations, including the following: Firstly, that short term assistance in the form of a bounty should continue; secondly, that the bounty should continue to be payable at the existing rate; thirdly, that the maximum amount payable should be raised by $100,000 to $600,000 per annum because of a continued change in the market demand away from cotton to polyestercotton; and, lastly, that the indexation of the bounty should not occur. 
The other report I mentioned earlier, the IAC report on bed sheeting, recommended that the bounty be payable on printed bed sheeting, whether or not the process of making up the fabric into bed linen occurred on the premises of the same producer. Under the existing Bed Sheeting Bounty Act only a firm which weaves, prints and makes up polyester-cotton bed linen on its own premises qualifies for the bounty. Piece-good sales- sales of printed cloth to be made up by other firms- do not qualify. The IAC accepted the case that this distinction was not acceptable and so recommended that both cases should be eligible for the bounty. 
In all three cases the decisions taken by the Government and embodied in these three Bills were based on independent advice from authorities respected by both sides of the House- the Temporary Assistance Authority and the Industries Assistance Commission. Accordingly, the Opposition supports the legislation. However, this debate gives me an opportunity to say something about the Government's general use of bounties. We in the Opposition see temporary assistance, whether it be by way of bounties or by other means such as tariffs, as only one part of a package of policies designed to improve the efficiency and international competitiveness of our industries. That is the way it should be- just one part. 
We are perturbed that the other parts of a necessary industry policy are not very evident at present under this Fraser Government, and I would like to draw attention to what we believe some of those other aspects of an effective industry policy should be. Firstly, a controlled stimulus to the economy to increase consumer demand for the products of industry is vital. Secondly, we need the institution of positive industry policies designed to encourage the revitalisation of existing industries and what I call the 'restructuring up 'of industries. Instead of 'restructuring down' or 'restructuring out' of industries, let us talk about 'restructuring up' into new industries and about positive manpower policies and programs to increase the mobility of workers through training, retraining and job search subsidies. These are essential parts of a comprehensive and proper industry policy and are sadly missing today. 
May I revert to my recommendation that a more expansionary macro-economic policy be instituted? I draw attention to the fact that we cannot be complacent about the level of retail sales today. If we take out of retail sales the sales of automobiles in particular, we find that retail sales generally are very sluggish. I know that at the present time the Government is making great attempts to talk up the economy. I am very reluctant to say anything which would kill confidence because we all want to see not only our economy but also the world economy getting going. At the same time, I believe that it is essential for us to face nasty facts. One of those facts is that basically the Australian economy will get going as a result of Australian policy only if stimulus is applied to domestic demand in this country- if people in the market place get going and have the confidence to buy. But at the present time retail sales are very sluggish. 
At this time only if a comprehensive policy, such as the one I have suggested- namely, a macro-economic policy combined with the other industry policies to which I have averted- is adopted can we reasonably expect industry to improve its efficiency and competitiveness while receiving tariff and bounty assistance, and so be able to go it alone. However, at the present time, all we see happening is that temporary assistance is being provided in isolation, which is what the Bills before us involve.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I know that for a moment you were doubting the applicability to these Bills of what I was saying, but I assume from the look on your face that you now see' that my remarks were extraordinarily relevant, lt seems to be the Government's naive hope that business stability will result from an enforced lowering of the inflation rate and that, in consequence, market forces will magically bring about an upturn in economic activity and an improvement in the viability of Australian industry. Not only is that chain of reasoning- I am very hesitant to call it logic- unconvincing but also it has been invalidated by the experience of the past three years. The retail sales figures, excluding those for automobiles to which I referred are the best example of that. Retail sales are very sluggish indeed when we take out the automobile. 
It seems inevitable that the Government's reliance upon varying assistance alone will mean that the long-term prospects for industry will be dependent upon a series of short-term measures in which efforts to sustain struggling industriesindustries which, in our view, are struggling unnecessarily- inevitably will dominate. Each of the three industries to which these Bills apply would like nothing more than a return of community confidence. Yet, without the correct macro-economic policies being adopted, they will not have that. I am sure that those industries would prefer a return of community confidence to the temporary sort of assistance provided by the bounties. But the bounty is necessary also. It seems likely that the present Government will continue to be preoccupied with short term palliatives, offering little positive leadership in ensuring the long term viability of Australian industries, if the present signs are correct. 
On the other hand, we in the La bor Opposition are optimistic that the right package of policies could strengthen our industries and could get our economy back on the road to full employment. Any pessimism we express is as a result of the limited and misguided nature of the policies presently being adopted. Until the Fraser Government recognises the errors of its ways and adopts a strategy such as the one I have suggested- if I were allowed, I would include in this debate discussion on research and development allowances, export allowances and those sorts of measures- 
-Unless a policy such as the one I suggested is adopted, we will just go on being led into a deeper recession. In speaking on the Bounty (Bed Sheeting) Amendment Bill, which is causing the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  so much amusement, I am allowed to talk about the future of the clothing and textile industry I am sure because, as you will understand,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the manufacture of bed sheeting is part of the functions of that industry. With respect to the clothing and textile industry, in particular I draw attention to a recent announcement made by the Australian Labor Party, when I and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  stated in a joint Press release that we were firmly committed to the survival of a strong and viable clothing industry in Australia. We in opposition appreciate the importance of the industry to regional centres, such as Geelong, Ballarat and Bendigo, key areas of Tasmania, such as Launceston, and many other parts of Australia. Labor's attitude is supported by the Crawford Study Group, which stated: 
It may be appropriate to develop industry-specific policies -  that is a term taken from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development which means, to put it in layman's language, specific policies for specific industries- 
Tor those Tew industries with difficult problems in order to improve their ability to cope with changed circumstances and to ease the adverse consequences of adjustment. 
Clearly, the clothing and textile industry falls into that category as it is highly labour intensive and, therefore, very sensitive. This is an area which requires the adoption of a specific policy. In the statement released jointly by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition and me, we announced Labor's positive policy in this area when we said that a future Labor government would establish a textile and clothing authority to ensure better long-term planning and certainty within the industry. That decision was made after discussions were held over 12 months with all sectors of the industry, including the manufacturers and the unions. 
We are concerned about the continuing erosion of regional employment, particularly in Victoria and Tasmania, caused by uncertainty in industry about its future.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I know you come from a provincial centre, namely, Maryborough. I do not know whether it has a textile or clothing factory, but if it has you will be even more aware of the need for specific policies such as those which I have suggested to look after the needs of regional areas where there is no alternative employment to that provided by the clothing and textiles industry. The authority which we would establish would take over the functions of the Industries Assistance Commission and the Quota Review Committee in respect of the clothing and textile industry. 
We assert that our textile and clothing authority would advise on specific policies related to the industry and would implement decisions made by government. But the final decisions must always be taken by government. Whether it be the IAC, the Quota Review Committee or our authority, they can merely recommend to government and government has the final say- it is responsible for the policies. We assert also that there is a need for an authority such as the one we propose to bring together the fragmented work of the IAC, the Temporary Assistance Authority, the Quota Review Committee and, indeed, what goes on in the Department of Productivity. We assert that there is a need for a coordination of the work performed in those various areas as they apply to the clothing and textile industry. There is a need also for a body such as our authority to monitor and to implement the policies which are decided upon by government. 
Our authority would include representatives of employers and employees to permit a practical input from people directly involved in the industry. It would monitor the activities of the industry and recommend policies. But, as I have said, it would not make final decisions. It would not only suggest measures to improve efficiency but also aim to provide a base for confident investment and development. In particular, it would be concerned to consolidate a sound base for opportunities in regional employment over a medium term of, say, five years while a longer-term future was being planned. This is not, as one commentator suggested, a policy of high protection. We recognise that in this country we need to be internationally competitive if we are to provide real security for any sector of manufacturing industry. 
Ours is a policy decision relating to the machinery to oversee a particular industry. Just because the machinery has been changed in order to make it more efficient, we cannot come to the conclusion that that action will lead to the provision of higher protection, per se. 
In looking to increased efficiency in the industry, a Labor government would be looking also to greater efficiency in the supervisory administration which would reflect concern for the social and regional implications of its advice. On behalf of the Government, our authority would consult and plan with our trading partners so that Australian production of clothing and textiles was integrated, to the greatest extent possible, with the production of countries which were exporting to us. It is vital that we have good relations with the people of the Association of South East Asian Nations and, indeed, with our other neighbours, the people of East Asia. 
I would hope that one of the results of setting up an authority such as this would be not only cheaper bed sheeting, as the honourable member for Swan has suggested, but also cheaper clothing generally- in the context of the provision of at least as much, if not more, employment in the industry, employment provided in an efficient way. The Australian Labor Party is confident that the flexibility that would be provided by the authority that it intends to set up should lead to increased international competitiveness and reduced protection, which would mean better value and a higher standard of living for Australian consumers. 
I repeat: These bounty Bills give honourable members an opportunity not only to talk about industry policy generally, but also to review these three industries in particular. The decisions taken by the Government, as embodied in the Bills, have been based on the advice of independent authorities, and the Opposition supports the legislation.  (Quorum formed) 
I ask the Treasurer whether it is a fact that the Reserve Bank of Australia has involved itself in the market place for banking shares by pressing for the takeover of the Bank of Adelaide. Has he noted reports that the consequence of this intervention has been a serious under-valuation of Bank of Adelaide shares in the offer from the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd at the expense not only of shareholders but also of employees who hold shares through their superannuation fund? Will the Treasurer use his influence either to seek the continuing separate identity of the Bank of Adelaide, which is of value to South Australia, or at worst see that pressure from the Reserve Bank is eliminated so that time is given for improved offers to be made, based on better valuations? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  in his reply to my question about the possible takeover of the Bank of Adelaide, suggested that I was not informed on the events. He is wrong. I have had close contact with a great number of people who are involved in the reorganisation of the Bank of Adelaide. I know of the appalling haste in which valuations have been carried out and how inadequate are those valuations. I know of the Reserve Bank causing this haste and the undervaluations. The Treasurer also said that I was not acting in the best interests of South Australia. He is wrong again. There is an enormous advantage for the economic development - 

 -Mr Speaker, during the course of his answer the Treasurer suggested that I was not informed about the advantages to South Australia. I want to explain to you and to the House that he is wrong on that count inasmuch as it is of enormous advantage to South Australia to have a bank with a head office in South Australia. That was the import of my question. 
The third thing he said during the course of his reply was that I was not helping the shareholders of the Bank of Adelaide which include, of course, the employees through their superannuation fund. I suggest that the Treasurer was wrong on that count because, if you remember my question, I asked him to eliminate the Reserve Bank pressure on the Bank of Adelaide for this merger and suggested that if that pressure were removed more time would be given for valuations and with more time given for valuations there would be higher prices for the shares. 
-Although the Supply Bills are appropriations of funds required during the early months of the new financial year- from 1 July until the Budget is passed through this House- and do not purport to show new Government initiatives, they are prepared within the existing fiscal strategy. Therefore, the debate on the Supply Bills provides an opportunity for some discussion and evaluation of the framework within which they have been prepared, and give us an opportunity to assess the Budget strategy brought down last year. From the start the Government has simplistically argued for an inflation first strategy apparently being prepared to relegate to second, third or even less important places, the improvement in economic well-being through growth, employment creation, reduction of poverty or the provision of widely needed community services. Reduction of inflation is of course important, and the Opposition has said time and again that it recognises its importance, but a more sophisticated and less doctrinaire government would have been able to find ways of combining this aim of reducing inflation with the others. 
The outcome of the inflation first strategy was the adoption of macro-economic policies, budgetary and monetary policies, which had a contractionary impact on the economy: reductions in spending and increased taxes betraying promises and legitimate expectations, and excessively tight monetary policy preventing borrowing necessary for investment and essential accommodation. 
This strategy has been sustained by the coincident similarity of the doctrinaire positions of the Government and its advisers. The Prime Minister and his various Treasurers seem to have thought simply in terms of one-liners- reductions of the size of the public sector to make way for the private sector, which is one of the doctrinaire statements we hear from time to time; that the size of the deficit must be reduced because deficits are inflationary, which we hear ad nauseam; and wage increases must be suppressed because they are inflationary. Each of these simple-minded propositions is misleading. The national economy is not a static box in which one portion will be enlarged by reducing the size of the other. It is a dynamic organism in which, if one sector atrophies, the other tends also to wither. Similarly, whether the deficit has an inflationary effect or not depends on how the deficit is funded. The fact that the Fraser Government's Budgets have each had large deficits by Australian standards whilst there has, until recently, been some fall in the rate of inflation, should have persuaded the Government of the vacuity of this belief. Any reduction in real wages has several effects also. While costs might fall and this might lead to some slowing in the rate of increase of prices, lower real wages also lead to lower household incomes, reduced consumer demand, lower turnover and therefore higher overhead costs per unit of output, leading both to higher unemployment and to inflationary pressure of a different kind. The effect which predominates cannot be deduced from a prior argument. Simple-minded propositions are an inept way to manage the economy. 
Although much more sophisticated, some of the beliefs of the Government advisers are also quite inadequately tested. For example, some advisers seem to believe that inflation is the major obstacle to renewed private sector growth. Whether or not this is true, there is no evidence to prove it. If it were true it is surprising that there has been so little private sector growth in recent years, when the rate of inflation has tended to fall. The advisers and the Government also seem to believe that the private sector will perceive any growth in the deficit as evidence that a new upsurge of inflation is about to occur and that their confidence will collapse as a result. There is no evidence for this inflation psychology. Even if private sector spokesmen say it is their belief, this is not conclusive evidence that businessmen behave in this way. Rational businessmen might just as easily conclude that an expansion of public expenditure would lead to increased national economic demand and react by increasing investment and employment in expectation of an increased demand for their output. That is how they should react. The point is that the belief is untested. This is tragic for if the belief is wrong there would be little to lose and everything to gain in modifying economic policies so as to give some stimulus to demand. 
Another belief seems to be that people's tendency .to save will fall when the rate of inflation falls. Attempts to test this suggest that insecurity related to the level of unemployment is at least as significant as unease about the rate of inflation in determining the propensity to save rather than to consume. Certainly this would be a reasonable attitude, for with half a million people unemployed at the beginning of this year and many hundreds of thousands of others who have given up trying to find a job, the competition for available employment and the danger of losing a job are clearly very substantial. People therefore must find ways of protecting themselves against this danger. 
Finally there is the belief shared by both Government and advisers that important means of ensuring renewed economic growth is to increase incentives. It is for this reason that taxes on high incomes have been reduced. On this issue there is a considerable body of empirical evidence which has led both the Asprey Committee and a recent study by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development to conclude that the net effect of taxation on work effort by executives and professionals is just as likely to increase as to reduce motivation. This is no doubt related to the fact that for executives and professionals work offers many forms of satisfaction as well as financial return. 
It is quite clear that the conceptual basis of the Government's policies is flimsy. Honest assessment of the effectiveness of the Government's policies would also lead to a questioning of their basis, for it is quite clear that general economic performance during the last three years has been very poor and that weaknesses and distortions are increasing at present. Such an impartial assessment was published last week in the influential and rigorous  International Currency Review.  The report in the  Review  began: 
Superficially, the Australian economy might seem to have assumed an appearance of buoyancy. This has impressed itself upon certain commentators, who appear unable to see beyond the ends of their noses. For all is not as promising as it seems- since much of the prevailing improvement in economic activity and confidence has been a direct consequence of the fact that the growth rate of the money supply doubled within a year. This development, in turn, largely reflected the politically motivated establishment of interest rate levels, and funding the farmers' wheat crops. 
The report draws attention to a number of particular problems. It states: 
In the first place, price pressures have again been gathering momentum with planned oil price increases and food prices particularly worrying. 
The writer would have had cause for more serious concern had he known of the 3. 1 per cent increase in food prices in the single month of April, and of a further increase in the rate of growth of prices of manufacturing inputs, building materials, manufactured goods and electrical materials. He did not know that because those figures were announced only yesterday. Secondly, the report draws attention to the consequences of declining real wages on consumer demand. One of the points I have already made is that there has been so much error in the present Government's economic strategy. I quote again from the  International Currency Review: 
Formal wage rises have been lagging considerably behind the new surge in prices- with the result that the rate of increase in real consumer spending has been declining. 
The writer takes a more realistic view than the Government of the effect of declining consumer demand on the overall level of domestic economic activity. Thirdly, the  Review  points out: 
The Federal Government has had to bury the political humbug associated with its claims to have jawboned interest rates downwards. 
The review concludes that the Prime Minister and his colleagues will need to pay close attention to economic conditions outside Australia since these are likely to deteriorate. The Government will need to shout about them from the rooftops. It is ironic that it has taken three years of government to teach the Fraser Government the simple truth that economic conditions overseas are an important determinant of constraint on Australian Government policy. If the Liberal and National Country Parties had recognised that at the time of the 1975 elections I wonder whether they would have been so dishonest in making such lavish promises to the Australian people which they could not in any way keep. They are now seen to be broken promises. It is important to evaluate fiscal policy, not only in terms of its macro-economic impact, but also in terms of the direct effect of taxation and expenditure policy on the well-being of people. It is well to do this with an eye on Government promises since these presumably determined people's expectations when they voted in 197S and again in 1977. 
Social Security accounts for 28 per cent of budget outlays, the most important form of Government spending. Pension and benefit payments do more than any other single form of Government activity to reduce hardship and poverty and to reduce the inequity and injustice of our economic system. The Prime Minister in his election policy speeches in 1975 and 1977 promised: 
The real value of pensions will be preserved- 
Politics have been taken out of pension increases by linking them automatically with the consumer price index. 
How hollow those promises sound today. Yet 6- monthly indexation of age and invalid pensions has been abandoned, forcing large numbers of people further below the poverty line. Many allowances and supplementary benefits have not been increased at any time during the Government's term in office. Their real value has fallen by 35 per cent. The real value of the family allowance which was introduced with such a fanfare in 1976 has already fallen by 28 per cent. If the Government were seriously concerned about poverty and hardship, it would at least increase pensions and benefit levels to the poverty line. This it has not done. All pensions and benefits are now below the level necessary to provide a minimal standard of living to provide for effective participation in community life. For example, a couple with two children, for whom the poverty line was at about $125 a week at the end of 1978, are receivings 1 12.20. This is nearly $13 a week less than an austerely denned poverty line. Single parent families are even more seriously disadvantaged. A single parent with one child, for whom the poverty line was $85.30 is receiving $64.20- more than $20 less than the amount required to provide basic necessities. Discussion with any of the non-government welfare agencies confirms that it is single parents supporting children who are most deeply in poverty in Australia at present. Yet these are the very people most directly affected by the failure to index family allowances. A single parent with three children was receiving $30 a week less than the poverty line for that group at the end of 1 978. Since then, prices have risen but there has been no indexation of any allowance or benefit. So much for a Prime Minister who said he was going to govern for the whole community. So much for the promise to retain the real value of pensions. 
The Government has said that it is important to increase incentives. Yet it has done nothing to. remove the strong disincentive to casual or part time work by the unemployed. At present the unemployed are allowed to earn $6 a week only without loss of benefit. Any earnings above that level lead to an equivalent reduction in unemployment benefit. Unemployed people are therefore directly discouraged from taking casual work because not only are they unlikely to receive any net income increase but also they can expect a delay of several weeks before becoming eligible again for unemployment benefit. If casual work does not continue, they do not receive any income at all because of that delay before receiving the benefit. A more encouraging policy would be to reduce unemployment benefit by a percentage for each dollar of income earned, so ensuring that there was a net increase in income as a result of casual part time work. It is extraordinary to recall the Prime Minister's saying in his 1975 election policy speech: 
We will be generous to those who can't get a job and want to work. 
Later he said: 
In a situation where there is high unemployment, special attention should be given to the needs and the real personal hardships of those unemployed. 
Those words again spoken in this Parliament sound particularly hollow when one realises that the Minister for Employment, as I think he is called, or miscalled, has made more announcements today about harsher means tests for the unemployed. We know that with the hidden unemployed there are about 750,000 people seeking jobs in this country. 
The reality is that humiliating and legalistic regulations have been introduced in relation to Commonwealth Employment Service officers. Last night, the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  said that unemployment benefit should be abolished for people under 25 years of age without dependants. The Prime Minister said about 6 months ago that he wanted Australia to be a fair, compassionate society. How do we reconcile these statements? The reality is that the personal tax system has been fundamentally altered in favour of the very top income earners, that pensions and benefits for the poor have been reduced, that unemployment has rapidly increased and that the unemployment benefit has been reduced and the unemployed forced to wait in arrears before their benefit can be obtained. 
The Government is also being cruel to the community through other programs. The Prime Minister promised in 1975 to maintain present levels of assistance to Aborigines. In the first year of his Government expenditure was cut by $24m. 
I heard an interjection from the shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Capricornia, noting the cynicism of such a claim. Over the last three years the Aboriginal share of the national Budget has fallen from 0.9 per cent to under 0.7 per cent. We on this side of the House say- even though it may not be popular in all quarters- that anybody who has a feeling of compassion for the many underprivileged in the society in which we live would consider this shabby treatment. The Prime Minister promised in 1975: 
We shall ensure that no person is denied legal aid because of lack of means. 
In practice the legal aid service was foisted onto the States and sharp restrictions on access to legal aid have been imposed. In recent Appropriation Bills, payments to the States for legal aid provided in the Federal area were cut from $7m to $3. 5m. Any of us representing electorates with people of middle or lower income groups know just what an enormous benefit it has been to underprivileged people to have the facilities of legal aid. It is very saddening to note the lesser service that is being offered in this area. 
I turn now to housing. The Budget allocation for housing was $663m in 1975-76. In 1978-79 this had been reduced to $363m- a fall to well under half in real terms- at a time when 100,000 people are on housing commission waiting lists. In addition, tens of thousands of people are living in caravans, and many thousands have no accommodation at all. Exorbitant rents are being paid for housing in some areas, notably in Sydney, because of the shortage of rental accommodation. The courageous and cost effective growth centre projects and the urban and regional development programs which were doing so much to improve the living environment in Sydney have been decimated. Budgeted expenditure in 1975-76 was $448. It was down to $108m in 1978-79. This is a completely vindictive annihiliation of a great program that was improving the quality of life in the overcrowded cities of Melbourne and Sydney. 
I could go on showing the sort of decimation which has taken place and which has reduced the quality of life particularly for people on lower incomes. The pattern has been consistent throughout the last three years. Effective programs for increasing the equity, compassion and attractiveness of our community have been slashed. Programs to improve conditions and incomes for the already well off have been steadily improved, all in the name of stimulating our economy. Yet we have not seen this happen. The Government justifies this simply in terms of the need to improve incentive. How long will the community be willing to accept steadily increasing injustice? How much inequality is required before incentives are adequate to achieve the recovery the Government expects? 
I have talked about the Fraser Government throughout my speech, but I do not want to put the blame entirely on Ministers. I want to draw attention to an article in the  Age  of 12 May 1979 which carried the headline: 'Backbench rally'. Referring to the Government, the article stated: 
. a group of backbenchers is beginning a campaign to steel its nerve. 
It continued: 
Each will make two speeches on aspects of economic 'responsibility ' and the importance of market forces. 
The first of those two speeches was made last night. I believe the honourable member who come under the heading of the 'steely five' have had the doubtful pleasure of being on  Nationwide  tonight. Let me name them. They are the honourable member for Eden-Monaro,  Mr Sainsbury,  the honourable member for Moore,  Mr Hyde.  I name them here because they will be named many times by the Opposition in their own electorates shortly. I hope the honourable member for Perth,  Mr McLean,  who is another, got on  Nationwide  tonight. He is in the House now. We will be nailing him as well. The other two are the honourable member for Ballarat,  Mr Short,  and the honourable member for Mackellar,  Mr Carlton.  They are the steely five and their co-ordinated action, so the report tells us, 'is just one sign that economic hardliners are talking a higher profile within the backbench'. I am sorry that some of those Government backbenchers who feel rather differently are not with us. If they were we could see their reactions to this sort of hardline. I noticed last month a headline in the  Australian:  'Liberals abandon plans for change in philosophy'. The article stated: 
The Liberal Party has virtually abandoned any prospect of going into the 1 980 election with a totally new philosophy. 
The article went on to give a preview of the Liberal Party council meeting which was to be held in Perth during April. Where do members opposite stand on this issue? Some back benchers are acting as steely hardliners. Let the other Government back benchers say whether they support the continuation of this economic policy which has brought the country to its knees, all in the name of defeating inflation first. Yet we have the phenomenon at the present time of the rate of inflation increasing. What the Government has achieved, as I pointed out earlier in this speech, is a growing inequality in this community, and all to no avail. 
I might mention some of the other members who are on this Government members' treasury committee so that perhaps we will draw them out of the woodwork and learn whether they feel the same way as the five who are standing courageously and appearing on  Nationwide  and advocating increases in taxation. The honourable member for Henty,  Mr Aldred,  is the  deputy chairman  of this exalted committee. The honourable member for Macarthur,  Mr Baume,  and the honourable member for Barton,  Mr Bradfield,  are on the committee. I name them here to let them know that we will be naming them in their own electorates. They are members of the Government members' treasury committee that wants increases in taxes. Other members are the honourable member for Dawson,  Mr Braithwaite,  the honourable member for Lilley,  Mr Kevin  Cairns, the honourable member for Cook,  Mr Dobie,  the honourable member for Deakin,  Mr Jarman,  and the honourable member for Hume,  Mr Lusher.  I have already mentioned the honourable member for Perth and the honourable member for Ballarat. But let me not hoodwink them. I will tell them here and now that their advocacy for increased taxes will not be forgotten as we move among their electorates and point out what they really believe. I wish we knew where Liberal Party back benchers stood on this issue. I wish we knew whether they wanted the Government to be tougher or whether, like some other members, they go to water. They pretend that they are seeking a fairer society but in fact are hoodwinking the public when they make such a pretence. 
The attitude of the Opposition is that the Government should adopt a stimulatory but cost-reducing strategy in the next Budget. The Opposition recognises that this has to be done in the context of an incomes policy, which means co-operation with the trade union movement. That can be done only if that incomes policy is seen to be redistributing income and wealth from the haves to the have nots. That is far from the sort of incomes policy that the present Government is seeking to foist on the Australian people by this present wages policy. 
One of the means of obtaining that incomes policy is cutting personal and indirect taxes as part of the bargain, part of the arrangement to achieve greater stimulus to the economy in order to create those extra jobs that are needed to reduce unemployment while at the same time doing so without ricocheting into an inflationary situation. I draw the attention of the House to an excellent article entitled 'The overtaxing of Australia' by Professor J. O. N. Perkins in the Age of 22 May. Professor Perkins had this to say: 
Once the economy recovers, the Budget deficit will fall, and it might even eventually be less than it is now. But, in any case, the deficit is not large by comparison with those of many other countries, including West Germany and Japan. 
As I am running out of time, I merely draw attention to that excellent article advocating a reduction in tax, not an increase in tax as advocated by the Government Members Treasury Committee. I believe that members of that Committee would be well advised to read that article. 
In conclusion, I point out that a striking symbol of the autocratic elitism of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his willingness to spend tens of millions of dollars on his own comfort by buying two new VIP planes. Further escalation in the cost of these planes was announced this morning when it was learned that refitting the planes to make them quieter would cost an additional $20m to $2 5 m. This increase comes in the same month in which a cut of $1.9m was made in grants to organisations providing accommodation for homeless persons. That action encapsulates the attitude of this Government. I again quote what the present Prime Minister said in November 1975: 
We have a comprehensive strategy to restore prosperity. 
He suggested that a growth rate of 6 per cent to 7 per cent was possible, that the deficit could be halved and that confidence would return to the business sector. To recall these promises is to show their absurdity. Words by Lewis Carroll in another context describe well what has happened in Australia: 
But the principal failing occurred in the sailing. 
And the bellman, perplexed and distressed 
Said he had hoped, at least, when the wind blew due east. 
That the ship would not travel due west! 
This ship has been travelling in exactly the opposite direction to what it should be travelling. 
I summarise what I have said and what the Opposition believes by now moving the following amendment to the second reading of these Supply Bills: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that the Government stands condemned for continuing to pursue a restrictive fiscal policy which has (a) greatly increased unemployment; ( b ) restricted economic growth; 
failed to control inflation; (d) reduced living standards of the great majority of the Australian population; (e) severely restricted important government programs, and (f) increased inequality and poverty in the community, and accordingly calls on the Government to produce' a budget for the next financial year which implements an alternative program designed to promote employment, living standards and equity'. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
-by leave-Never have so many miles been travelled, so many hours of negotiations been entered into and so many words been used to seek to justify the efforts made for so little purpose than has happened in these negotiations with the European Economic Community. There has been so much huffing and puffing, let us hope that the matter has come to rest in these two extraordinary statements. Not just one but two statements have been made on the subject. Firstly, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a statement before dinner. Now the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  has made a statement after dinner. These two statements have so little substance to them. 
The visit of  Mr Gundelach  may have justified one statement being made, but there is no reason that I, my colleagues or, I believe, any independent observers of the situation, can see to justify the making of two statements. We understand why the Prime Minister wanted to get into the act: He has had such a bad time this week and, indeed, since Question Time last Thursday. However, he would have been better advised to have spoken on a subject which would have given the country some reason for believing that he was trying to rehabilitate himself rather than to make the sort of speech that he made before dinner. Now we have had to listen to another speech of the same sort made after dinner by the Minister for Special Trade Representations. 
Incidently, I take this opportunity of stating that it will be a long time before the Opposition again is so accommodating in relation to statements such as these. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that not only did we give leave for the interruption of debates which were taking place in order that the Prime Minister could make a contribution in the debate on the statement made last Thursday by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  but also we agreed to the suspension of Standing Orders so that in making the statement the Prime Minister would not have a time limit imposed on him. Normal procedures were broken when an opportunity was not presented for a member of the Opposition to answer the provocative speech made by the Prime Minister. Instead, we accommodated the Government once again by allowing the Prime Minister to make at that time a speech on these negotiations. If I had known at the time that we would hear yet another speech on the same subject after dinner, I would not have counselled that the Opposition be so accommodating. 

 Mr Gundelach 's visit is worth recording in the debates of this chamber, as I have indicated earlier. However, one speech would have been enough. But before I move away from the subject of  Mr Gundelach  's visit, I wish to quote from a transcription of the remarks he made at the National Press Club today. He stated: 
It's even further back than ever that a commissioner for the EEC has put his head in the lion 's den. 
They were his words. Later he stated: 
Too much has gone amiss in particular over the last few years. 
He also stated: 
In order to put at once what has gone wrong over the last few years and that because we do belong to the same type of a culture . . . 
In other words, there is no resiling whatsoever on the part of  Mr Gundelach  from the recognition that the relationships between Australia and the EEC have reached a very low level. All that has happened in the last few years since the Fraser Government came to power. It is, therefore, very little wonder that the Government should be doing a lot of huffing and puffing at this time in seeking to try to justify these thousands of miles of travel and these thousands of hours spent by Ministers in order to justify that effort. I need to turn back to the Minister's statement to try to find some substance in it to justify all that effort. In the early stages of this statement it is nothing more than a repeat of details of the travelogue. I repeat that if success were built on miles of travel then we ought to find something in it. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Incidentally, the statement contains- before we even get into anything that could be called substance- misinformation about the Opposition's attitude. 
We on this side of the House did not at any time state that some efforts should not be made. We agree that the common agricultural policy has had very dire effects on the trading relationships of this country with the European Economic Community, and we support the fact that something should be done. But the way it has been done has been the cause of criticism on our part. We hoped that Australian ockerism might have been dead, that it should have been shed a long time ago. If ever ockerism was epitomised in national negotiations, we find the evidence of it in the relationships between the Fraser Government and the EEC. No amount of huffing and puffing, whether it is by Prime Ministers before dinner or by Ministers for Special Trade Representations after dinner, will repair the damage that has already been done to this country's reputation in the way that these negotiations have been carried on. 
Let me now try to find some substance in this statement. Let us look at what purports to be the specifics of the Minister's statement. Firstly, he says that the present levy-free quota of 50,000 tonnes of beef imports into the European Economic Community is to be increased. We are given no clue as to the extent of the increase. Why is the Government so shy about such details? We are told, however, that the increase will be allocated on a global basis and that Australia should benefit. There is no certainty whatsoever in this statement. There is no substance in this section of it and indeed, as I think I will show, there is no substance in any section of it which is worthy of a statement of this sort in the House. There is merely the chance that we might get a share of an unspecified increase in competition with the rest of the world. The Minister will have to pardon us for not becoming too excited about this game. Let me remind him that Australian beef exports to the EEC represent only 1.5 per cent of our total beef exports. We were selling significantly more to Iran before the revolution there than we were selling to the EEC. We sell well over six times as much to the socialist countries of eastern Europe as we sell to the EEC. For the Minister's benefit- I am glad to see that he is still in the House- I mention that those figures were published by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. 
The second point in the Minister 's speech- as I try to get some substance from his statement- is that the Community has offered a new and much smaller quota for high quality beef, a quota to be reserved exclusively for Australian exporters. I certainly hope that Australian exporters will benefit from this offer but, as we all know, the production of high quality beef is not the specialty of the Australian industry. Moreover, the granting of a quota is not the same as the achievement of sales under that quota. If we have beef suitable for this category, it will still have to compete on price with the subsidised local product within the EEC itself. The Minister next informed us that there is an understanding on EEC imports of manufacturing grade beef and that, of course, is the category that really matters to this country. The understanding is that the Community's imports of beef in this category will increase in proportion to future increases in Community consumption. The Minister does not say so, but one presumes that this is again on a global basis. Whether that point matters, only time will tell. The fact is that the recent trend in the European Economic Community's consumption of manufacturing grade beef has been downward. There are reasons for this. We all know that the increase in price has meant a cut in consumption. But let us not huff and puff and pretend that there is a lot of benefit in this particular section of the Minister's statement. According to the latest information from the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation, the Community's consumption of beef and veal actually declined marginally between 1976 and 1977. From the latest information, that reduction has continued. 
The next point in the Minister's statement is an early warning system for EEC action to keep out manufacturing beef. This is useful but it is hardly a mark of expanding trade. The resumption in the near future of levy-free buffalo meat sales at the modest level of about 2,000 tonnes a year is good luck to the Northern Territory buffalo hunters. One almost suspects the EEC of sending up our Prime Minister. We all remember that last year he was accused of wild buffalo diplomacy. This year the European Economic Community offered to let us export wild buffalo meat without imposing a protective levy. All we need now is a buyer for that particular meat. Next comes the Minister's most distinguished piece of obfuscation in the whole statement that he has given to the House tonight. It deals with cheese. I am sure that all honourable members will recall the lengths to which this Fraser coalition Government has gone in recent times to cut back Australian cheese imports. All these actions were designed to encourage local cheese production, a matter close to the hearts of a good many Ministers with dairy factories in their electorates. 
Among them is the Prime Minister himself, the Minister for Industrial Relations.  Mr Street,  the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony  and also the Minister for Transport,  (Mr Nixon).  In fact, it is interesting to go through other seats where cheese factories are located. I notice that the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  has five in his electorate; the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  has two; and the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  has two. We also might mention the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs,  (Mr Fife)  who has one at Albury. I could go on through the list mentioning the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  as well as the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom).  In my State the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  has two, one at Murray Bridge and one at Mount Gambier. I would like them to stand up in this House and give us their opinions on the so-called achievements that have been reached and the benefits that might result for them out of the negotiations which have taken place. The action which probably caused most resentment- indeed we could call it hostility- among European cheese producers and Australian consumers was the artifice of requiring a lengthy quarantine period. But now, apparently our attitude has changed, or so we learn in this statement. The Minister stated:  in return for certain concessions on cheese imports into Australia, the EEC has offered to guarantee access for worthwhile tonnage of cheese under favourable conditions. 
So far as this is capable of interpretation at all, that statement means that we will open our market to the European cheese producers who are in great demand and highly competitive on price in Australia. In return, what do we get? The Australian cheese producers will be allowed some limited access to the European market. The expression 'under favourable conditions' must be taken to mean that this access will not be levyfree. One must assume from that choice of words that any sales made in Europe by our cheese producers will be subject to levy, but probably at a lower rate than normal. Whether our cheeses have appeal and are price competitively under these circumstances remains exceedingly problematical. We have noted just how competitive the European cheeses are in this country and how much they are in demand. 
The Minister went on to mention some unspecified benefits for offal exports, meat extracts, dried fruits and certain canned fruits. In return for all this he said that Australia had agreed to bind duties on a range of industrial products that Europe wants to export to us. He said that the Government is convinced that the concessions offered will have no detrimental result. On the record of this Government there is not much comfort in that statement. Until we know what the concessions actually are, no judgment is possible. I fail to see any practical reason why these details should remain secret. Presumably the offer has been firmly made and the Australian interests likely to be affected surely should have the longest lead time available to prepare for their new situation. Why have we not been given more substance even in this regard in the statement tonight? 
The larger consideration from the Government's point of view is that it does not want considered judgments of what it has been doing. It wants to give a hard sell to the two statements it has made tonight and to bury the other side of the equation- the costs of these so-called benefits which we are receiving. The Government is acting as though all the advantage in these negotiations has come to rest with Australia. This obviously is complete nonsense. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  said earlier this evening, the European Economic Community faces a vast annual bill for the support schemes embodied in its Common Agricultural Policy. The bill is 8,000 million currency units, according to Commissioner Gundelach in his public speech today at the National Press Club. The currency unit, as we know, is equivalent to the United States dollar before it went off the gold standard. Forty per cent of that bill is accounted for in dairy products. A modest few hundred million is allocated each year to the inevitable long term restructuring process. We have only to turn to the most recent speech of the Minister for Special Trade Representations. He addressed the Australian Dairy Industry Conference on 1 November 1978. He said: 
Between 197S and 1977 the Community doubled its share of world butter exports and increased by about one third its share of cheese and skimmed milk powder. Appropriations for export refunds on milk and milk products in 1977 were a massive 809 million units of account. 
The Minister knows what a massive market the EEC has given rise to in that area. To the extent that the restructuring process is making any headway, the Community is allowing a little more flexibility in its negotiations under the umbrella of the multilateral trade negotiations. What the Government is trumpeting tonight amounts to no more than that. We cannot even tell on the information available to us whether it has been able to hold its own on that basis. One suspects very strongly that if the Government had been able to tell us these details it would not have been loath to do so. As I said at the opening of my remarks, the sum total is that there has been a great deal of huffing and puffing but very little of substance. I have drawn attention to anything of substance and said that it requires a lot more detail before we can be satisfied. 
-The Opposition opposes this Bill which gives legislative backing to the mini-Budget which was brought down last Thursday night. That mini-Budget, of which this Bill is a part, destroyed the last vestige of the credibility of the Fraser Government. Secondly, it created much more uncertainty and insecurity in households and in the business community in Australia. Thirdly, it distributed the cost burden in an inequitable and highly regressive manner. Fourthly, on the admission of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  it will fail to reduce inflation, it will fail to bring down the level of unemployment, and the economy will continue to deteriorate. 
We have just dealt with a tax Bill arising out of that mini-Budget. The Bill dealt with some of the more iniquitous effects of it- the fact that no indexation will be applied; the fact that the surcharge is to continue; and the fact that there is going to be fiddling with the consumer price index. The Bill before the House imposes the two per cent ad valorem duty on imports into this country which are not already burdened with some form of duty. The Treasurer attempted to sell his package on the basis of Budget responsibility. Spokesmen for the Government say that its central aim is to reduce the deficit because this will bear down on inflation and reduce unemployment. We have not had any evidence that that strategy works, yet the Government is persisting with it. 
On two counts the Government's concept of Budget responsibility is utterly invalid. Firstly, the Government completely ignores the fact that this process of increasing taxes and reducing 
Government expenditure will threaten employment by contracting consumer demand. The Government will create more unemployment. Its policy of reducing the deficit will inevitably create more unemployment. This has been happening ever since this Government bought its way into office. It bought its way into office, both in 1975 and 1977, by making false promises. Secondly, the Government has completely overlooked the fact that measures that have been used to reduce the deficit have had a direct inflationary effect. Where it has increased indirect taxes, this has had an influence on prices which in turn have influenced the level of inflation. Those indirect taxes have influenced living expenses generally. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  said last Thursday night in his reply to that Budget statement: 
Fraserism comes with a high cost. 
This Bill represents one of those costs. I repeat that we have amateurs in charge of the economy. They run the economy on hunches and guesses, and those hunches and guesses are not working. They apply completely foolish economies. I say that they are foolish because they are inflationary and contractionary- in other words, they play on inflation and help to increase unemployment. If we look at the Treasurer's statement last Thursday night we find only this explanation of why this Bill has come into the House: 
It is intended to impose from 1 July 1979 an ad valorem revenue customs duty of 2 per cent on most goods currently imported free of duty where international trade commitments and understandings permit. This measure is estimated to yield about $80m in revenue in 1 979-80. 
Those are the words that introduce the changes about which the Treasurer told us last night. The Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee),  in the cryptic and far too brief second reading speech which he made when he introduced this Bill to this House, gave no details of how the Government estimated this figure of $80m. Indeed, he did not even mention the figure of $80m. We have to go back to the Treasurer's statement for that. I am glad that I cannot blame the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  who is sitting at the table, for the preparation of this second reading speech because he and I had a little altercation a week or two ago about the need for greater detail in second reading speeches. Now that I look at the departmental advisers present, perhaps this second reading speech was prepared by his Department. I can only say, if that is so, that the lessons have not been learnt because we cannot learn much about this Bill from the second reading speech. However, let me recount to the House some of the few things that we have learnt from that second reading speech. When the Minister for Productivity spoke to the House he gave only a sketchy, albeit a more extensive, indication of the duty free imports which would be excepted from paying this new duty, including goods covered by rates bound by international trade agreements, crude and enriched petroleum oil, motor vehicle components, non-commercial goods such as outside packaging and re-imports and, lastly, government purchases. 
This Bill is living proof of the foolishness, deception and, indeed, hypocrisy associated with the mini-Budget generally. It is foolish because the measure itself is inflationary; it is deceptive because it represents an inequitable form of indirect taxation; and it is hypocritical because it is in conflict with the Government's posturing in bilateral and multilateral trade negotiations. I will come to each of those three elements in turn. I shall deal first with the inflationary impact. The imposition of such a tariff on imported products increases the price. It allows domestic producers of similar products to increase their domestic prices on those products. Thus, the imposition of a tariff can, and usually does, lead to an increase in the domestic producers' gross returns on their output in proportion to the increase in the domestic prices made possible by the tariff. The gross effect of an increase in tariffs upon prices therefore would be greater than that simply associated with importers passing on to consumers the extra $80m in customs duty. In other words, the consumers of this country will have to pay not only that extra $80m but also the mark-ups on that $80m that will occur in many cases. 
How much consumers will have to pay in addition to the $80m is not possible to estimate at this stage. It depends on the market share of domestic producers; it depends on the competition in the market for particular goods against which the imports compete; and it depends on the extent to which imported goods are intended for final consumption or for inclusion in domestic production processes. As the House will readily note, if the goods are for domestic production processes there will be mark-ups as the process continues through to the final consumption stage. It also depends on the gross profit margins which are applied after the imported goods have been landed in this country. Therefore, the burden on the consumers of this nation will be much more than $80m by the time they come to pay for the goods on which these import duties are to be applied. 
We are uncertain about how much will have to be paid, but we are certain that, whilst the $80m is only about 0.15 per cent of the private final consumption expenditure during 1977-78, the impact on inflation will be greater than that 0. 15 per cent. Not only will these increased tariff costs be passed on to the consumer of imported goods, whether they be individuals or businesses, but also additional inflationary effects will be associated with other factors, such as, firstly, the many goods previously imported duty free, being themselves inputs into Australian production processes, and, secondly, the action of domestic producers and/or retailers in putting up the prices of domestically produced goods competitive with these imports. 
Therefore, this inflationary effect has to be added to the other effects resulting from the steps announced in the mini-Budget, including increased personal health costs and, of course, price rises by companies trying to compensate for higher company tax payments resulting from the abolition of the trading stock valuation allowance. These additional inflationary forces have to be considered against the background of the already resurgent inflation loose in the Australian economy. For example, only yesterday the Australian Statistician described the increases during the last year in the prices of materials used in manufacturing as 'the highest on record ', being an amazing increase of 32 per cent during the 12 months to March of this year compared with an increase of 5.5 per cent the year before. The Government appears to be doing its hardest to ensure that we will soon again pass through the 10 per cent inflation rate barrier- a rate which is double that promised by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in August of last year. 
Leaving the inflationary effect of this measure, the next point to consider is the inequity of the measure. As the Minister for Productivity noted in his second reading speech, this tariff impost is not across-the-board when it comes to imports currently admitted duty free. Since the percentage of our imports admitted duty free is around 60 per cent, so that the likely value of duty free imports in 1979-80 would have been in the order of $8,000m, these exceptions would seem to account for about half of all duty free imports. The goods left over- that is, the ones on which the imposition is made and which are still subject to this tariff- apparently will number between 800 and 900 items, ranging through the whole spectrum from raw fish to aircraft. Housewives will find the price of raw fish in the supermarket a burden. When it comes to aircraft, the extra cost will be added to the freight costs of this nation, which will have a multiplier effect and will move through almost everything that we purchase as consumers. This tariff hits goods quite arbitrarily. It is based not on capacity to pay principles or protection principles but on the country of origin or the nature of the consumer criteria. 
Let us consider one of the inequities which will result from this additional tax, which is what it is. It is really a form of indirect tax. In spite of the announcement of the Treasurer that he will not impose further sales taxes or a value added tax, he has introduced this measure, which is a substitute for that. But it is not an across-the-board form of applying a tax. This tax will hit our export industries. Their cost structures will be adversely affected because of the increased costs of inputs, either wholly or partly imported. Our exporters are that group in the private sector which we should be encouraging at this time. We should not be pulling the rug from under their marginal markets. We are all well aware of the need to be more internationally competitive, and yet this measure will do nothing but increase the costs of inputs whereby our exporters will find it all the more difficult to be competitive because of the need to absorb those costs. That our exporters, whether of agricultural or industrial goods, will be affected is clearly indicated by the fact that, of our imports, around 45 per cent are producer materials for use in our building and construction, rural and manufacturing industries and around 25 per cent are capital equipment items. Only 25 per cent are finished consumer goods. 
The third main point that I want to make in responding to this measure is that it is hypocritical, hypocritical because it is in conflict with the Government's posturing in bilateral and multilateral trade negotiations. Not only will this measure add to inflation and inequities, as I have explained, but it also underscores the inconsistency of this Government towards trade matters. We have heard that the Prime Minister while overseas often lectures to the effect that the world economy needs freer trade and reduced protectionism. Likewise, the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  has stated- he must have done so with his tongue in his cheekthat the object of our involvement in the Multilateral Trade Negotiations talks has been: 
. the liberalisation and expansion of world trade by reduction of tariff and non-tariff measures to trade in both agricultural and industrial products. 
So the 2 per cent additional tariff flies in the face of all of this posturing. This is made even more incredible because one of Australia's key interests in the MTN has been to push for a meaningful liberalisation of trade in agricultural products as an essential condition for a successful outcome. We had a lot of posturing on this from the Prime Minister before the dinner break last night when referring to the visit by  Mr Gundelach,  and after dinner by the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations in seeking to persuade us- he was not very successful- a lot had been achieved in the negotiations with the European Economic Community. The most important nations for our agricultural products are the developed economies, those very countries which this increased tariff will most affect because the imports from developing countries are exempt. 
Where is the consistency of this Government's attitude to international trade questions? On the one hand it postures, as I have suggested, in the sorts of statements that are made abroad in international negotiations; yet on the other hand, it comes down with a measure such as this, putting a 2 per cent impost on all those goods which are not now subject to tariffs, with a number of exceptions which are really not very meaningful. Further, this new tariff is in blatant disregard of Article 37 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which involves a commitment to refrain from increasing Customs duties. Unlike the 12'/2 per cent additional duty on goods subject to quota which was imposed on the Australian community in the Budget last August, this action cannot be defended by Article 19, where it may have been excused on the grounds that increased import competition was threatening to cause serious injury to domestic producers. There is no such excuse in this case. It is a tax, an impost which I cannot see comes within the roles of G ATT in any way. 
Coming to my conclusion, the purposes and problems besetting this Bill are a microcosm of those contained in the Government's mismanagement of the economy generally. For this reason, I repeat that we oppose this Bill in no uncertain terms. We do so because there appears to have been little serious thought given by the Government to the possible consequences of its actions. The Government has grabbed greedily at the opportunity to raise an additional $80m annually. As I have explained, this will not be the amount with which the consumers of Australia are clobbered. It will be $80m plus. This has all been done without asking whether it is worthwhile, given the detrimental effects in terms of inflation, in terms of the inequities it is causing, in terms of the disruptions in the economy, and in terms of our international relations. 
In this respect, the Government should be condemned for circumventing the requirements of section 24(3) and (4) of the Industries Assistance Commission Act, which specifies that the Minister should not increase or reduce duties imposed in imported goods without first referring the matter to the IAC for recommendation. In serious doubt is the wisdom of the Government in hastily embarking on this course of action without considered advice as to the effects of the decision. Finally, I suspect that this move is only the thin end of the wedge. Neither the Treasurer nor the Minister for Productivity, when he introduced this Bill, mentioned the duration of this measure. We have heard of the tax rate changes. We were not given, as promised, indexation from 1 July. We were not allowed, as promised, the elimination of the tax surcharge, and those measures date only until November. There is no such promise in this case. This is a revenue-raising measure with which we are going to have to put up fairly indefinitely. Indeed, the words used by the Government seem to indicate that this indirect tax impost on Australian producers and consumers is here to stay. Who knows when and how often it will be increased. 
We have seen before examples of thin ends of wedges in cases such as this. We learned in the Budget last year that we were going to be given 40 per cent of our medical costs as a rebate directly out of taxation. Of course, that has now been taken away from us. That was another thin end of the wedge whereby the worst fears we held have come to pass. This is just another one of those fears that we must readily have and from which we have no relief. In short, I repeat that the total package has destroyed the last vestige of credibility that this Government may still have had. It has created more uncertainty and insecurity in both households and business sectors. It has distributed the cost burden in an inequitable and a highly regressive way, and it will fail to reduce inflation. In fact, measures such as this will increase inflation, and through that it will also increase unemployment in our community. Is it any wonder that we will oppose this Bill not only at the second reading stage but also at the third reading stage. 
-The Opposition welcomes this announcement. I was hoping that there would be time for an Opposition spokesman to come into the chamber to make the same comment in relation to the proposal with which we have just dealt. We are glad that these particular projects are going ahead both at Coolangatta and at Cairns. I hope you will permit me the indulgence of mentioning also the patrol base at Cairns,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  We trust that the construction of both projects will go ahead with all speed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I want to explain to the House, with your indulgence, that the Opposition decided not to divide on its amendment because of the amount of legislation that there is before the House at present. However, we would like our opposition recorded in  Hansard.  I know that that will now be done, thanks to you giving me that indulgence. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-Can the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs say why the debate on the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) was adjourned last night and not taken to the vote after the scheduled four speakers had completed their contributions? Will the Minister give the House information about the Bill's imposition of the customs duty of 2 per cent, a virtual turnover tax, I am sure he will agree, on most goods currently imported duty free, which information is missing from the Government's second reading speech? What are the main categories of goods involved? Is it a fact that the decision will worsen the startling increase in the cost of manufactured inputs announced last Tuesday? Is it also a fact that the decision will make many of this country's exports less internationally competitive, with a resulting loss of export income? 
-As the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  has just indicated, we are debating cognately the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill 1979 and the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill 1979. We are in the Opposition will not be opposing the second readings of these two Bills but, as I will indicate later, we will be moving a second reading amendment to the second of these two Bills. We have comments to make on both of the Bills. In particular, I want to make special reference to the procedures governing the introduction of both Bills. Although we will be moving an amendment to the second reading of the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill, I cannot do so at the moment because the first of the two Bills- the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill- is before us; I will have to do that when the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill is called on for debate. 
Before looking at each Bill I would like to make some remarks about the system which allows the Government to change the customs tariff and excise tariff without what I would consider to be sufficient parliamentary scrutiny taking place. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  is at the table and I welcome the fact that he is able to be in the chamber during this debate. He has heard me speak on this subject before. Perhaps, like water dripping away at a stone, my mentioning these facts time and again will eventually bring about some reform.. The procedures governing changes to the customs tariff and excise tariff are such that a government may implement a change without having to legislate first. This is the result of special provisions which enable quick alterations to the tariff. The Opposition understands that those quick and speedy alterations are necessary. Nevertheless in a moment I will be making suggestions as to how we might better scrutinise such alterations. At this stage I want to put into the record again the procedures which have operated for some 1 5 years. 
The system is as follows: Firstly, if the House is not sitting, a notice is published in the Commonwealth  Gazette  advising that a proposal will be introduced in the House, and new duties are collected forthwith. Secondly, within seven sitting days a proposal is introduced into the House. The third point to note is that if the House is sitting the proposal is introduced and the duties are collected from that time. Fourthly, the Minister then stands in this House and makes the shortest possible speech, stating that he proposes to move an amendment to the tariff in the form being circulated. If the proposal follows a  Gazette  notice he usually states it is merely putting into effect changes which have already occurred. The debate is then adjourned and the item on the Notice Paper never comes up for debate again. Fifthly, prior to the end of the session, a tariff validation Bill is introduced declaring that all duties demanded or collected up to a certain date are deemed to be lawfully demanded or collected. 
The second reading speech on such a Bill always states that it is merely a machinery measure in respect of changes which have already taken place and which the House will have an opportunity to debate in the future. Sixthly, prior to the expiration date in the validation Bill, the Bill to amend the tariff is introduced, that tariff having taken effect on the day on which the duties were changed. The second reading speech of that Bill also refers to the fact that it is merely the formal enactment of changes which have been made long ago. Lastly, the notices of proposals are discharged from the Notice Paper after all this has taken place. 
I hope that it is of some use to put that in the record again. I hope that some political scientists who want to see the forms of this House improved- as I and other members on both sides of the House want to see them improved- will note the cumbersome nature of that procedure. The consequence of this procedure is that individual tariff and excise changes are not given the same scrutiny through full debate in the House, as have other legislative changes, even in this sphere of assistance given through bounties. Tariff and excise changes are debated as a group without much detail being given at all. If we can describe it as detail then it is lost in the sheer volume which is given. Such changes only come before this House for consideration a considerable time after the changes have occurred which makes the whole scrutiny process somewhat out of date. In other words, this Parliament is presented with a fait accompli and we are now debating a fait accompli. 
I want to voice my concern at this system, as I have already indicated. As shadow Minister in this area, it is my opinion, and that of my colleagues, that full and proper consideration should be given to every tariff and excise change as those changes are implemented. If it is sufficiently important for the Industries Assistance Commission to put time and effort into making individual recommendations, it is good enough for the Parliament of Australia to be involved in the scrutiny process. For example, as I indicated earlier this contrasts with the amount of parliamentary time devoted to the consideration of bounty Bills. 
It is most opportune for me to mention that before the Minister for Housing and Construction brought in a couple of construction proposals, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs introduced a Bill called the Bounty (Injectionmoulding Equipment) Bill 1979. This Bill will come before the House and there will be a full debate upon it. There will not only be a rivetting and shattering contribution from myself but also I know that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  will probably take part in the debate. We will have a contribution of great import from him. Proper consideration will be given to that bounty measure. Yet something that is equally important, namely a change in the tariff, gets shoved through in a wash such as we are experiencing right now. We have got to contrast the two and given that these are obviously regarded by the Government as being important why is there discrimination against the customs and excise changes and more attention given to bounty changes? Surely the most feasible way of achieving proper consideration is to have a parliamentary standing committee examine and report on each measure. 
I am glad to say that that is the form of scrutiny which is being adopted more and more in our Australian Parliament. We have the growth of the legislation committees. There is now talk of us having Estimates committees in the House of Representatives to look in greater detail at Estimates as they come through the Parliament. I hope that this is not only in relation to Appropriation Bills Nos 1 and 2 at Budget time, but also to Appropriation Bills Nos 3 and 4 in about April and May of each year. Surely we should have a similar standing committee to look at these changes? When a tariff or excise change is made I do not suppose there is any reason why, during the recess, the particular committee should not get on with the job of looking at it in detail in order that it is ready to report on the particular change which has been gazetted at the resumption of Parliament. 
In summing up I point out that these sorts of procedures which we are operating today regarding tariff changes may have been satisfactory during the 1950s and 1960s when economic circumstances were different from what they are today. They are not satisfactory today. With three quarters of a million Australians wanting a job and unable to find one, with enormous changes taking place in our day-to-day trading patterns and so on- I could mention many other factors which represent such great changes today as compared with the 1950s and 1960s- every Industries Assistance Commission report and the tariff proposals which flow from it is more sensitive in nature than previously and requires closer scrutiny than we have been giving in the past. 
Just to emphasise this point, I made mention in a debate only last night of the latest act of folly by this Government and that is the imposition of an ad valorem revenue customs duty of 2 per cent on most goods currently imported free of customs duty. That is a virtual $80m turnover tax. These days the Government appears to be using the customs tariff as a revenue raiser with little regard for the effect that this will have on the level of manufacturing activity, leave alone other activity in the economy. In the last full Budget the Government imposed a special additional duty of 12Vi per cent on certain imported goods subject to quota restrictions. The latest 2 per cent additions to tariff imposes a further levy on imported goods. 
The effect of this move will be widespread. Those industries using imported materials as components as part of a production process, will find that their costs of production have risen. This has happened at a time when on Tuesday we had an announcement from the Australian Bureau of Statistics of a 32 per cent rise in the cost of manufactured inputs compared with a 5.2 per cent rise in the previous year to 3 1 March. Further cost increases are being imposed on the manufacturing industry. This will mean that the price of the final product will increase causing an inflationary effect upon the economy. As well, such a move will erode the competitiveness of Australian manufactured goods using imported components. We are going to become less competitive internationally. I thought that we had arrived at a point where there was some consensus between the Government and the Opposition on the need for this country to become more internationally competitive if we are to compete in sending our products overseas, and to compete with countries which are also in the market place. 
Further, this move negates the work carried out by the Industries Assistance Commission when making recommendations on the goods under consideration. The ball game has changed. The recommendations, and thus the changes to the legislation we are now debating, must be considered out of date. The Government has been changing the rules regularly. It happily interferes with the entire tariff structure for shortterm political gain, such as revenue raising. We discussed this last night in relation to this 2 per cent imposition, a virtual turnover tax. The Government is inconsistent and irresponsible in what it has been doing in that regard. I sympathise with manufacturing industry which once again is obliged to pick up the pieces after all these measures have been applied. 
Let me talk in more detail about the first of these two Bills. The purpose of the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill is to enact tariff changes which have been made in the first half of this calendar year by the customs tariff proposals introduced into this House and which are numbered 1 to 15. They have been introduced at different times since February when the House first sat. I will read from my summary of these proposals so that those who have an interest in particular proposals will know the ones with which we are dealing. The first matter was described as administrative change for dental suction apparatus. In that case no duty rose or fell and I have no further comment to make. The second proposal was administrative change for sublimation transfer paper. Similarly that was not imposing any increased or reduced tariff. It is a different matter when we come to the third point which is fisheries and fish processing. There is a decrease in the duty in that case and it was based entirely on the recommendation of the IAC. Similarly, in relation to the fourth point, jewellery, this situation also applies. The fifth proposal related to timber and timber products. There were both increases and decreases of the tariff in this area and in most cases they followed the Industries Assistance Commission recommendations. The sixth point was files, rasps and drafting changes. There was a cessation of the quota in that case. 
The seventh proposal related to inks. In this case, as with timber and timber products, the changes were a bit like a dog's breakfast- some tariffs were increased and some were reduced but the IAC's recommendations were entirely followed. The eighth change was made to injection and puncture needles. The tariff was increased on these goods and the recommendation followed completely the IAC report. No change was made to the ninth proposal which related to copper foil. In the tenth proposal, no change was made in respect of orange juice and there was some decrease in the duty on brandy. The eleventh change related to certain paper and paper board on which there was an increase in the tariff. Most of the IAC's recommendations were accepted. There was an increase and a decrease in the tariff on umbrellas and all the IAC's recommendations were accepted. The tariff on work trucks was increased and decreased and most of the IAC's recommendations were accepted. 
At this stage I might say that where not all of the IAC's recommendations were accepted the Opposition has looked at the reasons for this in detail and has accepted the reasons. In the fourteenth proposal, administrative changes were made to the tariff applying to wool fabrics, liquor and tobacco products. The fifteenth change related to tyres and vegetable oils, et cetera. Of course, these products were not all the subject of the one tariff report but they were the subject of the one proposal when the changes were introduced in this House. The tariff was decreased in the case of tyres and all the IAC's recommendations were accepted. The tariff was also decreased for vegetable oils and most of the IAC's recommenations were accepted. That completes my remarks in relation to the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill. 
I now turn to the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill which is the second of the two Bills being considered in this cognate debate. The purpose of this amendment Bill is to enact the excise tariff alterations moved in the House on 27 February and 4 April 1979. Those changes were made by a measure which was called the Excise Tariffproposals Nos. 1, 2 and 3. The first proposal increased the excise duty on naturally occurring liquefied gas to $ 1 3 per kilolitre. The second proposal set new import parity prices from 1 January to 30 June 1979. The third proposal is complementary to changes being introduced through the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill, the other measure which is the subject of this debate. I wish to deal with that third point. The changes provided for the duty free entry of goods other than alcohol or tobacco that are, at the time they are entered through our ports for home consumption, owned by certain authorities or bodies established for a purpose of the Commonwealth by or under an Act of the Commonwealth. In other words, under that alteration we are extending the duty free status to goods other than alcohol or tobacco where those goods are for home consumption and where they are for a Commonwealth authority. That is all I will say about the third point, except to say that the Opposition has no objection whatsoever to it. Therefore, the rest of my remarks will be about the other two elements of the Bill which I have outlined only briefly and about which I want to say more. 
The purpose of the first part of this Bill is to legislate for an increase in the excise on naturally occurring liquid petroleum gas from $12.60 to $ 13 a kilolitre, which is an increase that has been in effect since December last year. This is another example of one of those ex-post valedictions that I was objecting to earlier. Of course, we should have discussed this measure a lot earlier. It has been a fait accompli for six months. We are now dealing with the horse after it has bolted. The Opposition is not opposed to this excise increase as it is designed to offset windfall revenues accruing to the producers of naturally occurring LPG. Nevertheless, the measure should have been looked at in greater detail at the time. Prior to December last year the price of refinery LPG was $83 a tonne while at the same time the price of naturally occurring LPG was only $67 a tonne. Therefore there was a $13 margin. This price differential had resulted in a shifting of demand to natural supplies with quantities of LPG produced in refineries consequently being flared. 
This was clearly a waste of a valuable resource which could make a significant contribution to Australia's liquid fuel requirements and something had to be done about that. That resulted in this $ 1 3 increase in the price of the natural gas in order to bring it in line with the cost of the gas from the refinery so that there would no longer be a gas flare. Because of this situation, in November last year the price of natural LPG was removed from the control of the Prices Justification Tribunal. This move allowed the price to increase to the refinery price of $83 a tonne. At the same time, the excise was increased by 40c to $ 1 3 a kilolitre. Therefore, the increased price became an excise burden and was able to be siphoned into the public coffers rather than provide an increase in profit to the makers which would have been a windfall increase in profit to the refinery owners. This move was undertaken, as I have said, to offset the windfall revenue which would have gone particularly to the Bass Strait producers and which was effective, I repeat, from 1 December last year. 
Although we supported this move, I take this opportunity once again to condemn the Government for failing to legislate this change until now, six months after it has become effective. We know of no excuse for the delay. Even though there was no way to find time to debate this matter in this chamber, I draw attention again to the possibility of setting up a standing committee of the House to look at this kind of matter in detail. In that way at least a standing committee could have had some opinion on the matter which it would have reported to this chamber at an appropriate time and upon which a debate might have taken place. Even now the legislation before the House is out of date, as the excise on LPG has since been increased to $14 a kilolitre. So we are way out of date when talking about the $ 1 3 a kilolitre. I draw attention to the fact that on 2 May this year the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  announced that the excise would increase from $13 to $14 a kilolitre because the PJT had allowed the price to increase to $1 10 a tonne. I wonder whether it will be six months hence before we debate a measure which enacts that increase in excise. Enough said about that part of the Bill. 
I now move on to the second section of the Bill which allows a change in the price to refineries of domestically produced crude oil. On 1 January this year the price was raised from $12.59 to $13.66 a barrel, but the Government is only now introducing legislation to effect this change. The January price increase was a result of a decision taken in the 1978 Budget to increase the price of domestically produced oil to import parity. The price is set every January and July in line with' changes in the price of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries marker, light Arabian crude oil. The Government has now decided to legislate for the January price increase which occurred five months ago. Any observers who are knowledgeable about this situation will know that we have had a number of OPEC price increases announced since last January. Once again, this enactment comes far too late. As the Opposition has pointed out on many occasions, this pricing policy is imposing a severe burden on the Australian public by way of rapidly increasing petrol prices and through its effect on Austalia's inflation and unemployment rates. 
If the purpose is to reduce usage- I will come to this point in a moment- the measure is not having that effect. Demand is not price elastic, to use an economist's term. This policy means that any increase in the official price of OPEC oil is passed on to Australian consumers in full. By this Government's decision we are locked into oil prices and their effects. We are locked into all the adverse effects of this monopoly situation operated by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. There is no reason why this should have been so. Thirty per cent of our production is local. Of course, we need to conserve oil. We need to be far more thoughtful in our use of fuel in this country generally. But I repeat that price is not a mechanism- not yet anyway- by which to bring about that reduction in usage. 
The sole motivation for the introduction of this policy was, we assert, to provide the Government with additional revenue. It is as a result of the Prime Minister's obsession with the size of the Budget deficit. About 80 per cent of the revenue from a barrel of oil goes to the Government by way of taxes. This money is paid by the Australian motorist and by other users in the form of higher petrol prices. Since June last year the price of petrol has increased by almost 30c a gallon. This hits those who live in the country; it hits those who live in the cities. I am just looking around at the National Country Party benches. I will not mention any names because I am not in the habit of doing so. As I am looking at the Country Party benches I cannot see very much. 
-Except for empty seats. If members of the National Country Party were here I would ask them why they are not standing up and being counted for the people who live in the country who have very little alternative but to use oil for so many reasons, such as when they travel from their farms to towns and so on. Indeed, honourable members might ask why the Labor Opposition has not got more support from the Liberal Party in drawing attention to the terrible effects that the increases in petrol prices are having, not only for the people in the country but also for the people in the cities and, in particular, for people on low incomes who have no margin from which to pay the increased prices and are obliged to suffer a reduction in their standard of living. The Government argues that these higher petrol prices are necessary to encourage energy conservation. As I have indicated earlier, overseas evidence shows and evidence in Australia shows that higher petrol prices are ineffective in controlling demand. If the Government were really serious about conservation it would have implemented policies designed specifically to limit demand. 
The Government argues that the demand for petrol should decrease but, at the same time, it is cutting back on the funds available for the provision of public transport. If the public transport system were made more attractive, it would be one means of cutting down those hundreds and hundreds of cars that each one of us sees in every major city in Australia carrying just one person to and from work each day. If we could do that effectively we would go some way towards conserving petrol, supplies of which are getting smaller. I would like to look a little more at the effects of this policy on the Australian economy. In January this year the Industries Assistance Commission estimated that the Government's import price policy would increase the cost of living by 2. 1 per cent over the next one to two years. This estimate was made before the recent OPEC price increases. Increasing Australian oil prices alone will push Australia's inflation rate into double figures. This oil pricing policy will also detrimentally affect Australia's trading position. The same IAC report estimates that import parity pricing will decrease the incomes of export oriented farm industries by from 6 to 8 per cent in real terms, decrease total exports by 2.4 per cent and increase imports by 0.6 per cent. At the same time, the Government has launched an export drive. These two policies are clearly contradictory. Unemployment will also worsen as a result of" higher oil prices. I have not got the time to trace that through but the Government has pointed out how inflation worsens unemployment. 
The IAC estimates that aggregate employment will decrease by 0.8 per cent and rural employment by 2.8 per cent. This is an increase in total unemployment of 48,000 and in rural unemployment of 8,400. The rural sector is hit particularly hard by this policy as there are no substitutes for oil available to this sector for so many of the pursuits of country people. There is not a section of the Australian community that is immune to the effects of higher oil prices. Petrol is not a luxury; it is vital to the welfare of this country. There ought to be measures other than price adopted to conserve it. Australian oil prices are tied to prices determined by an international organisation, one in which we have had no say and over which we have no control. As a matter of urgency, the Government must review this policy before more damage is done to the Australian economy. It is for those reasons that I will, when the second of these two Bills is before the House, move the following amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that the Fraser Government's crude oil pricing policy has imposed a severe burden on the Australian public by way of rapidly increasing petrol prices and through its adverse effects on Australia's inflation and unemployment rates and should be reviewed '. 
That policy should be reviewed. As I have said, I will move that amendment when that particular Bill is before the House. This has been a cognate debate. We are not going to oppose the first of those two Bills. We will move that amendment when the second Bill is before us. 
-The purpose of the Excise Amendment Bill is very different from the group of Bills we have just passed. It is to implement the Government's decision to increase the excise levy on domestically produced crude oil priced at import parity. The increase in the excise will be applicable from 1 July and will be equal to the increase that will, by then, have occurred in the import parity price since 31 December last year. The Opposition does not oppose this move in as much as it is designed to tax windfall profit increases to oil producers. But- I do emphasise that word 'but'whilst not opposing this move I point out that this represents a complete reversal of policy on the part of the Government. The Government has introduced this policy change contrary to the stance it has been taking on the question of taxing oil companies. Obviously it has introduced this policy without thinking about its consequences and in a way which is clearly contrary to sound economic principles. For this reason the Opposition proposes an amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House notes that this measure is a reversal of Government policy, and is of the opinion that the change of policy made in the Bill comes too late, is not based on clear economic principles, constitutes a major change in the groundrules for the exploration industry and is consequently damaging'. 
As stated in this amendment, the move to increase the excise payable on old oil priced at import parity is a complete reversal of policy on the part of the Government. The Government has been condemning the Opposition for saying that a resource tax on oil producers should be imposed. What is this policy before the House if it is not a type of resource tax? It is not properly thought out and it is not based on sound economic principles, but the underlying rationale is the same as that behind a resource tax, about which the Government has been so condemnatory. 
How has the Government changed its position on this question? In the 1977 Budget, the Fraser Government announced that the price payable to domestic producers of crude oil would increase gradually to import parity, the Government receiving $3 a barrel excise on that proportion of oil priced at import parity. During 1977-78 that proposition was set at 10 per cent. This financial year it is 20 per cent and it will increase we have been told- although we never know whether what we have been told will ever come about because of the somersaults that have been going- on present indications to 35 per cent on 1 July. 
At the time of this decision the Government announced that it was looking at the possibility of introducing a resource tax in order to collect some of the windfall revenue which would flow to the oil companies. But as is known to all informed observers, the Government abandoned this idea of a resource tax. Since then, various members of the Government and, in particular, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  have argued at length that this pricing decision is encouraging exploration activity. They also said that higher prices must accrue to the oil producers so that exploration will be stimulated. We have heard that cry ad nauseum. The Opposition on the other hand, particularly my colleague the shadow Minister for Minerals and Energy, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  who unavoidably is not in the House- which is why I am leading for the Opposition on this occasion- while recognising that an adequate return on oil production is necessary for exploration activity, has been arguing that the price payable on oil already discovered is not the price that encourages exploration. 
We have pointed out to the Government on many occasions that the relevant price is that payable on any new oil discovery. In 1975 the Labor Government announced that full import parity would be paid on any new oil found after that time. This is the major stimulus to exploration activity. Until now the Government has ridiculed this argument. But I suppose we must be thankful for small mercies. Eventually the light dawns. At last the Government understands. 
Let us look at the present situation. The announcement by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in that infamous speech he made to this House last Thursday night- just a week ago- and this Bill now before the House show that the Government no longer believes what it has been espousing for the last two years. The Treasurer in his statement last week even said that new oil would continue to receive full import parity and thus the incentive to oil search will therefore be maintained'. What a change in stance on this matter. But if, as the Government now argues, higher oil prices are not necessary for continued exploration activity, why is it continuing with a policy which will still force petrol prices up? I had a good deal to say about that this afternoon in a debate on another Bill. Let me make it clear that the Government might be stopping oil producers receiving additional profits but it will continue forcing consumers to pay more for their petrol. Currently Bass Strait producers receive $10.66 a barrel on 20 per cent of their oil production and $2.33 a barrel on the remainder. This is an average price of about $5 a barrel. As of 1 July the producer price will be set at $9.59 a barrel for import parity oil which will then be 35 per cent of production, and $2.33 a barrel on the remainder of production. This gives producers an average price of about $4.20 a barrel. 
Although the price of petrol will not go up as a result of this change in excise in this Bill, petrol prices will continue to increase. The Government's policy on the pricing of oil will still hold. Its policy is wrong. Its policy means that if any increase occurs in the official price of Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries oil Australian oil prices will increase by the same amount. This new excise policy means that petrol prices will still go up but the revenue will go to the Government, not to the oil producers. At the moment the price of oil to Australian consumers is $13.66 a barrel. The difference between this price and that which goes to the producer goes to the Government. The revenue from any increase in oil prices from now on will go to the Government. The Australian motorist will pay the price in the form of higher petrol prices. The producer price will be set at about $4.20 on average but the price to consumers will keep increasing in line with overseas price increases. All this is so that the Government can get more revenue. That is the main purpose of this legislation- revenue raising. 
The price of oil is due to increase in July. Price increases already announced by OPEC and further increases expected in June mean that the Australian price is likely to be more than $16 a barrel in July. This increase could mean that petrol prices could go up by 10c a gallon in the near future. The Government might be stopping producers getting any more revenue but it is going to keep getting increased revenue itself. Revenue will continue to come from the Australian motorist and from other users of Australian oil. As I said this afternoon, members of the National 
Country Party in particular should be speaking up for those people who live in the country and are obliged to use a lot of oil for their livelihood, and so should the back bench members of the Liberal Party be joining members on this side if they have any spine at all. They should oppose this policy which is hitting to leg those people who need petrol for their livelihood, for basic leisure activities and also those people on lower incomes who do not have the margin to afford increased costs. 
Let us look at the way in which the Government is going to tax oil producers. It has introduced a pseudo resource tax which takes no account of the adverse effect this will have on the production of oil. The crude oil levy takes no account of how this tax will affect small producers or how it will affect marginal oil pools. A flat rate levy is an inefficient mechanism for sharing revenue between producers and the Government as it does not differentiate between high and low cost fields. The tax is the same whether it costs $ 1 or $ 10 a barrel to produce the oil. If the cost of production is higher than the company's set return the oil will not be produced. 
At a time when Australia needs all the domestic oil production possible the Government is implementing a tax which will stop some oil being produced. A proper resource tax as advocated by the Labor Opposition would stop this occurring. It would tax more heavily oil which is produced at low cost and not deter production from high cost fields because the resource tax is on profits and the profits have to be made before our form of resource tax is applied to them. If the Government is going to have a resource tax on oil producers, why does it not do it properly rather than having an arbitrarily determined tax which changes whenever the Government's revenue requirements change? It is the thin edge of the wedge. The Government is collecting revenue in this way. It is hitting the motorist to leg and at the same time deterring oil production in the less economic fields. 
The Opposition has stated on many occasions that it would establish sound pricing and taxation arrangements to share oil revenue equitably between oil producers and the Government. These policies would be rational policies based on sound economic principles and would work to benefit both producers and consumers. They would serve the national interest and not the interest of the Government coffers. We would establish ground rules which would not be subject to arbitrary changes, as is the case with the Government's oil policy. The oil industry is a very high risk industry which should not be subjected to regularly changing ground rules. This policy change we are debating tonight will have a detrimental effect on the confidence of the industry and on exploration activity. The industry's exploration is based on expectations regarding future returns. Although at this stage the Government has maintained the pricing structure applicable to new oil discoveries, the action of the Government in changing rules midstream in this case will clearly instil within the industry distrust of the Government's statements and actions for new discoveries. As one industry spokesman is reported last week in a newspaper- and I have read many- said: 
Planning for new projects was based on projections of pricing structure for the future. If there was distrust of government action once new discoveries have been made, it was a definite disincentive to explore. 
Clearly this policy change will affect company expectations about policy changes in the future and affect industry plans to lessen Australia's dependence on overseas oil supplies. A further point I would like to make about the Government's stance on the crude oil levy is that this is not part of an overall energy policy. This Fraser Government has no energy policy. Its attitude is characterised by arbitrary changes in policy as evidenced by this Bill tonight. The Government wants a little more revenue so it grabs it wherever it can. The Government says that it is not going to apply a resource tax. Yet with an eye for the main chance it hops in and grabs a resource tax of this sort- a wrong type of resource tax, a damaging form of resource tax. The Government has failed even to produce a discussion paper on energy policy options. On the other hand we in the Opposition have such a discussion paper. This Government's promised Green Paper has failed to materialise to date. I believe that it is now being redrafted for the fourth time. The international oil situation will not stand still while the Government decides what to do. I repeat that the Opposition's amendment sets out in brief form these arguments which I have put to the House. With much pleasure I have moved the amendment. 
In the absence of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, for whom I have waited half an hour to come into this House, but who still has not done so, I ask the Prime Minister: Is  Mr Harvey  Bates still the exCommissioner of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics, or has he done an Eric Robinson? What caused  Mr Bates's  resignation? Is there any way the Prime Minister can reduce the damage already done to the Bureau's vital international links? 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 22 March 1979: 
1 ) What has been the budget allocation to the Industrial Research and Development Grants Board in real terms since its inception. 
What part of the $24m allocated to the Board in the 1978-79 Budget will be used to fund (a) existing commitments and (b) new grants. 
What has been the proportion of industrial research and development expenditure to gross domestic product since the inception of the Board. 
-I give notice that on General Business Thursday No. 10 I shall move: 
That this House, recognising the importance of small business to the Australian economy and acknowledging the particular problems of small business, directs the Government, amongst other things, to- 
1 ) Upgrade the Finance and Small Business Branch of the Department of Industry and Commerce; 
Improve the availability of finance for small business; 
Provide more extensive management training and counselling programs for small business; and 
Explore methods of easing the taxation burden on small business. 
-The issues I raise under this heading, namely, the Fraser Government's incompetent handling of the Federal Narcotics Bureau, are indeed grave ones. The immediate episode which has initiated this debate- the Eric Robinson-type resignation of the Commissioner for the Federal Narcotics Bureau,  Mr Harvey  Bates, is a bizarre one to say the least. The Opposition raises this subject in sorrow but it is its duty to seek to persuade the Government to change its course because its present direction is an exceedingly dangerous one. What greater chaos or disaster could be imagined than for a law enforcement agency to be penetrated by the very people it is duty empowered to police? That is the situation arising from one of the allegations that has been made against this agency. Here we have the most serious of allegations- that the Federal Narcotics Bureau has been infiltrated by organised crime. By all accounts, the multimillion dollar drug ring is better equipped than the community's Bureau itself. What of our relations with overseas narcotics agencies? How can they be expected to have confidence in our efforts to deal with what is essentially an international evil when the drug underworld has access to the secret records and files of the Narcotics Bureau? 
Australia may well be cut off from information ordinarily supplied by overseas police forces and international drug control policing programs. Nothing they gave us could be regarded as secure. The allegations involve access to the Narcotics Bureau computer enabling drug criminals to keep one step ahead of the police authorities. These are some of the harsh facts which we have to face. Let me give some details. Last Friday the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  announced that the New Zealand couple Isabel and Douglas Wilson, had passed information to the Queensland police in June 1978, a year ago, that an unnamed Narcotics Bureau officer had been involved in the giving of information to drug traffickers. The Minister's response to this most serious allegation was to set up an investigation of police officers involving the Commonwealth police, the Queensland police, the New South Wales police and headed by an officer of the Victorian police. Why not somebody from the South Australian police? They could be far more objective in this area than anyone of the other four police forces which have been involved. Indeed, there is less ill-will between them and some of the other agencies than exists between the four police forces that have been chosen. 
The subsequent resignation of the Bureau's Commissioner,  Mr Bates,  and the Minister's frantic attempts to have  Mr Bates  withdraw his resignation are matters of public notoriety.  Mr Bates's  withdrawal last night of his resignation adds a touch of farce to the whole affair. The Opposition charges that the Government's handling of this whole matter has been inept and incompetent can now be substantiated by further details which I intend to give the House. Two people are dead. These are just the most recent deaths. There are charges that, related to the drug ring, there have been five deaths in recent years. But, in relation to the two most recent deaths, the Victorian Police Force not only leaked the initial disclosures to the Melbourne  Sun,  it now charges that the Narcotics Bureau, in fact, sat on allegations made by the Wilsons for a year without conducting proper investigations. It further charges that the Narcotics Bureau's data on the people at the top of the drug distribution tree is seriously defective. 
What is the Government's response to this? It sets up a police inquiry to be headed by the same police force that is making some of these serious allegations. In that sense the police forces involved, in particular the Victorian Police Force, are to act as the accuser and the judge and jury for the allegations. The tensions which have existed between the Narcotics Bureau and State police forces for some years are well known. The Government cannot claim that this so-called external investigation is impartial. Clearly it is not. I repeat that the same people are the accusers, the judge and jury. However there is an even greater defect in the investigation than its lack of impartiality. All the investigation will attempt to establish is whether the allegations made by the Wilsons are founded or unfounded. The ramifications of this affair extend well beyond that. This Parliament is at present being asked to give greatly extended powers to the Narcotics Bureau in the investigation of drug offences. As recently as last Wednesday that legislation was before this House. It is still before the Senate. Yet, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs admits that he knew of the allegations last Monday. I assert that it was the height of impertinence to try to sneak the legislation through this House before the allegations became public knowledge. One suspects that it was only the fact that the Minister realised that the full story was about to break that prevented him from attempting to rush the legislation through the Senate as well. 
I call for the Customs Amendment Bill 1979, temporarily at least, to be withdrawn. It is all the more vital for the Opposition's amendments providing greater safeguards to be adopted when that legislation returns to the House if, indeed, it is withdrawn as I believe it ought to be. We cannot give these vastly increased powers to the Narcotics Bureau until we are satisfied that the purpose for which they are to be used is the purpose for which this Parliament intended them to be used. Until we are satisfied that there are sufficient checks and balances against their abuse. I call on the Government to withdraw the legislation from the Parliament and when that legislation comes back into the Parliament to provide those extra checks and balances that the Opposition, with the support of some members of the Government parties, has sought. 
Neither during his Press conference nor subsequently has the Minister raised the question of ministerial responsibility relating to this matter. The Minister, by implication, believes that his officers were at fault for not informing him about the allegations. The Minister must accept responsibility for the wrongdoings of the Department which he administers. Certainly, that responsibility does not warrant the resignation of the Minister. I am not now calling for his resignation. The Opposition calls for such resignations sparingly. We had one example of the Opposition calling for a resignation in this Parliament yesterday because there was due cause to do so in relation to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman).  However not a word has been said about how this matter of the relationship between the Minister and his Department is to be rectified in the future and how the Minister will have more effective control of the Bureau. It is right and proper that that should be examined. Certainly, a police inquiry will be quite unable to determine the proper relationship between the Minister responsible for Customs and the Narcotics Bureau. The matter is just being glossed over at present. 
I emphasise that this matter does not just raise the question of whether allegations first raised by a New Zealand couple, who have since been murdered, are correct. It goes to the very heart of the credibility of the Narcotics Bureau and to the Minister responsible for that Bureau. The Government is continually giving the community dire warnings about the effect of the drug trade on the lives of Australians, particularly young Australians. On two occasions it has introduced drastic measures to try to deal with that trade. On both occasions, despite some dispute about the details and extent of the legislation, the Opposition has given the Government basic support. Now allegations are made that elements of the 
Narcotics Bureau itself are involved in the drug trade. That is the gravamen of the allegation. Until the extent of the infiltration, if any, by drug traffickers into the Narcotics Bureau is established, there can be no confidence in the Bureau, either internationally or in Australia. The allegations and all the repercussions cannot be swept under the carpet or dealt with by a half-baked inquiry with all the appearances of a kangaroo court. We need a far better inquiry than the one we know about now. 
Next, I want to deal with the question of the Eric Robinson-style resignation of the Narcotics Bureau chief. We hold no brief for  Mr Bates,  nor do we seek to malign him. However, this Parliament and the Australian people are entitled to know what concessions were made to  Mr Bates  that led him to alter his position from a resignation in protest against the form of inquiry to be undertaken by the Government to a position where he was prepared to withdraw that resignation. I am sure that the Minister and objective members of this House will agree that, indeed, we did not get a satisfactory answer to a question asked along those lines in Question Time today. No concessions have been publicly acknowledged. However, we are entitled to ask why a man would feel on Friday that his integrity made him honour bound to resign, yet he could withdraw that resignation the following Monday. We have not been given satisfactory reasons.  Mr Bates's  resignation and subsequent withdrawal only add to the intrigue surrounding the whole affair. 
The Opposition's position in relation to this grave matter is quite clear. It was stated on Sunday by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  We believe that only a royal commission-type inquiry will suffice. We reject the kangaroo court-type inquiry set up by the Fraser Government, which, as far as we know, is still the policy of that Government. The questions involved are too important to be swept away by a limited police inquiry. The Government already has a judge suitably equipped for the task. I refer to  Mr Justice  Williams, who was appointed in 1977 by the Government to head a federal inquiry into drugs. It is not as though we are calling on yet one more judge to undertake a task outside his normal area of work. The judge is already working in this area and he should be given the extra terms of reference to do the extra job that is required. We call on the Government to give  Mr Justice  Williams these new terms of reference so that this matter can be resolved to the satisfaction of the Australian community and the international drug law enforcement community. Unless this is done, there can be no confidence that this whole matter has been investigated properly and completely. Unless this is done, the fractured relationships with the international drug law enforcement agencies caused by this bizarre episode cannot be repaired and restored. 
Let me refer to some of the matters raised by the Leader of the Opposition in that Press release he issued last Sunday and which we believe must be considered by a judicial inquiry. Firstly, the extent to which the Narcotics Bureau has been infiltrated by persons involved in drug trafficking and organised crime must be considered. We do not believe that the inquiry can be limited to the initial allegations made by the Wilsons. Millions of dollars are involved in the narcotics trade. The Government has itself recognised this by providing for new penalties to attack the financial nature of the trade. With such amounts of money involved and with such penalties involved, the temptation of drug traffickers to attempt to gain inside information from the Bureau is obvious. The temptation of some people in the Bureau with access to information of use to drug traffickers to accommodate people offering huge sums of money for their co-operation cannot be ignored. 
Secondly, we believe that the inquiry should investigate the degree of diligence shown by the Bureau in investigating the allegations made by the Wilsons. Last Sunday in the  Sun-Herald  it was reported, no doubt from inspired leaks from sources in the Victorian Police Force again, that the Narcotics Bureau had been much less than diligent in investigating the allegations. Thirdly, we believe that a royal commission must investigate the question of whether the New South Wales and Victorian police forces were provided by the Narcotics Bureau with information which might be in the interests of the Wilsons. Obviously we do not suggest that because people provide information such as that provided by the Wilsons, a 24-hour protective guard should be placed around them. However, on the evidence available it appears that there was no communication to either the New South Wales or Victorian police forces despite the fact that the Wilsons were at various times within the jurisdiction of these forces. Fourthly, a royal commission would need to inquire into and report upon the proper relationships between the Minister responsible for Customs and the Narcotics Bureau and the relationship between the Minister and his Department and the Department and the Bureau. It is all very well for the Minister for 
Business and Consumer Affairs to say that he was not informed of the allegations until last Monday week and that with hindsight he should have been notified. But what is he doing about it? No police inquiry is going to clear up that matter. 
It is the duty of the Minister to establish the proper relationships between himself and his Department, the Department and the Bureau, and himself and the Bureau. He has not done so. Questions can arise from time to time about the degree of independence of State police forces from the Crown. That arose in the Salisbury affair in South Australia. The Opposition believes that all police forces should be subject to complete ministerial responsibility. The Narcotics Bureau should not be considered to be a police force. It cannot treat the Minister responsible for it as a person who will be provided with information only on a need-to-know basis. The Minister must take responsibility for his Department, and responsibility means that he must be informed. Clearly he cannot be involved in the investigation of every offence in relation to narcotics, but when an allegation which goes to the very heart of the credibility of his Department is made, he cannot simply abdicate responsibility by saying: 'I was not told. In retrospect I think I should have been told'. This matter is central to the whole issue and is one that in view of the failure of the Minister to establish a proper relationship, can be established only by a royal commission. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-by leave-The Opposition welcomes the statement by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs (  Mr Fife  ). However, I should like to remind the House that this Bill was adjourned at the end of the second reading stage. I say 'at the end' because I understand that all those honourable members listed to speak had made their speeches. I understand that the Bill will shortly go into the Committee stage. Having been granted leave to make a short statement, I take this opportunity to remind the House and the people of Australia that the Opposition has opposed this Bill at the second reading stage and will vote against it very shortly because the Opposition believes that it is part of the horror mini-Budget proposals. 
This particular proposal will raise $80m in the way of import duties on those imports not otherwise subject to duties. We are glad that the amount of $80m is now to be reduced to $73m by the amendments which the Minister has just announced to the House. The Opposition will be supporting the amendments at the Committee stage, but only because they slightly improve the Bill. I repeat that the Opposition will vote against the Bill at the second reading stage and at the third reading stage as well because we believe that it is an unnecessary revenue-raising impost on the Australian people. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I point out to the House that the Opposition is opposing this Bill not only at the second reading stage but also at the third reading stage. However, because there is a lot of legislation before the House the Opposition will not be taking it to a vote. I want at this stage to record the Labor Party's opposition to this impost. Admittedly it has been reduced from $80m to $73m, but that is brought about merely by removing the tariff on books, which would have restricted the rights of individual citizens to acquire books for purposes of private education and self-development. That is one improvement. The Bill still contains the offensive clause which provides for the raising of 2 per cent import duty on many other items, which will merely add to the inflation of this country. It is part of the horror mini-Budget, as I mentioned earlier, and we are against it. We will record our opposition on the voices. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: this House, whilst supporting bounty assistance for local printers, is of the opinion that the Bill should be withdrawn and re-drafted to provide such assistance for minimum runs of500 copies instead of the present 1000 copies in order to aid smaller, more specialised printers who have previously been encouraged to invest in facilities through, for instance, the investment allowance and who must be encouraged to undertake structural adjustment in more equitable and less costly and disruptive ways'. 
-We are dealing with a cognate debate on two bounty Bills. I will deal first with the Bounty (InjectionMoulding Equipment) Bill 1979. This Bill gives effect to the Government's decision on advice from the Industries Assistance Commission of assistance to manufacturers of injection-moulding machines, which recommendations from the IAC were contained in the report entitled Miscellaneous Industrial Machinery. Whilst this report is dated 12 December 1978 it has not been released. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  in his second reading speech to the Parliament when introducing this Bill sought to excuse this on the ground that the Government's decision on other products covered by that report have not been announced. He will understand, and I am sure the House will understand, that without the benefit of being able to examine that IAC report, there are difficulties for members of the Opposition to examine this measure as closely as we would like and to be as informed as we would like. 
However, the Minister did reveal that the IAC had concluded that it could not identify public benefits commensurate with the high rate of tariff protection, currently 55 per cent, for these particular injection-moulding machines and that reduced tariffs would lower costs to the plastic products industry, the users of injectionmoulders, so increasing that industry's competitiveness in world markets, thus being able, we would hope, to create extra jobs in the plastics industry. We take the Minister's word for this. I am sure that the information is correct because he knows that we will be able to check it when eventually the IAC's report is tabled. The IAC recommended, therefore, that existing tariff protection, namely the 55 per cent which I have mentioned, should be reduced to 15 per cent. It also recommended that transitional assistance to eligible Australian manufacturers of injection moulding machines be accorded by way of bounty payments, initially at the rate of 45 per cent of value added, but reducing by 10 percentage points each year over five years. Such a phasing out of bounty over that period would allow the industry to restructure and to become, hopefully, more competitive at the lower tariff level. This is the view of the Government in reaching its decision. 
The Government has accepted all the major recommendations of the IAC. The only recommendation that it has rejected is the payment of the bounty on equipment sold overseas. Tariff proposal No. 18 introduced into this House on 22 May 1979 has given effect already to part of the recommendation which reduces tariff. This Bill is to give effect to the bounty elements of the Government's package. The cost of the bounty scheme is estimated to be approximately $4.2m over the five years, of which $1.5m will be spent in the first year of operation of this bounty Bill. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill since we are informed that it conforms largely with the IAC's advice. Our major complaint, however, is that the detailed reasoning underlying this IAC advice is not available to us and to the Parliament generally so that we can be absolutely confident in the decision we have made. Frankly, this is unusual as no draft report was released either in this particular case. I repeat that it does create difficulties for the Opposition and weakens the checks and balances which are the essence of this Westminster system. The absence of this report raises problems since this policy initiative is based upon a gradual reduction in assistance to the industry. I am on record at other times in condemning the use of general acrosstheboard tariff cutting alone to promote industrial development, particularly at times of high unemployment such as we are suffering today. I do not deny, however, the benefits of giving reasonably long advanced notice of future tariff cuts- I emphasise- in certain industries. I do not want to be dogmatic about this but I emphasise - 
-One industry I have in mind which was a high cost industry was the domestic whitegoods industry to which tariff reductions have been given notice of well in advance and where, indeed, structuring is taking place. In answer to the interjection of the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  I state that that is a case where I believe the policy is working. He will agree with me that plenty of notice has been given of the reductions and those reductions are gradual and phased and give time for the restructuring. I merely state at this point of time that I accept that as one of the methods to be used in certain industries to bring about the structural change, but I would not be dogmatic and state that it is the method that ought to be used to bring about that structural change in every case. 
Appropriate industries for such action must satisfy certain criteria. I want to list those criteria which will also supplement the answer I have given to the interjection. The industry must be made up of large firms all with reasonable market shares. The potential economies of scale and economies of greater capacity utilisation must be sizable. Furthermore, the direction and nature of industry rationalisation must be apparent to all in the industry. The last of the criteria I want to mention- I do not pretend to be necessarily exhaustive- are that management must be progressive, which includes a progressive attitude to industrial relations, and management must be committed to adjusting to international market realities. Not many industries do satisfy these criteria. Whether the injection-moulding machinery industry is one of these I cannot say because, I repeat, we do not have the IAC's description and analysis of the industry. Nor do we have the IAC's views on the sort of rationalisation they would hope might occur within the industry. 
The main reason we have not opposed this Bill on the grounds that I have stated is the Minister's assurance that officers of the Department of Industry and Commerce will be monitoring developments in the industry. We look forward to the IAC's report being tabled because without it we are putting more trust in the Government than perhaps the Government deserves. But I can only sum up by saying that we are coming in on a wing and a prayer. 
I turn now to the Bounty (Books) Amendment Bill 1979, which is the other Bill before this House in this cognate debate. The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the Government's decision to continue assistance to the manufacturers of books in Australia. The purpose of this assistance which is, and has been, provided in the form of a bounty for some time, is to assist local printers against import competition. The intention is for the bounty to be available only for books which, in the absence of assistance, would otherwise have been printed overseas. The Bill largely conforms with the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission contained in its report entitled 'Products of the Printing Industry' dated 31 July 1978. The IAC report pointed out that book production is a relatively small section of the Australian printing industry, employing about 1,500 persons and having an annual turnover of about $28m in 1976-77, the last financial year for which statistics are available, as far as I know. However, it is the section of the printing industry which currently records a relatively low level of profitability and experiences more and more import competition. 
The Bounty (Book) Act 1969-75 has assisted the printing of books in Australia by providing for the payment of a bounty on eligible books on the basis of one-third of costs of production. The payment of the bounty under the Act had been due to terminate on 31 December last year but following the recommendations from the IAC, this bounty assistance is extended to 31 December 1979. The existing bounty is equivalent to an ad valorem tariff of about 55 per cent and affords an effective rate of assistance to book manufacturing of 45 per cent. 
Having examined the background to the introduction of the bounty generally and its history and effects, the IAC concluded that the purpose of the bounty should remain to assist local book manufacturers to obtain work which, in the absence of assistance, could be lost to overseas competitors. To this end the Commission recommended, and the Government accepted, that assistance in the form of a bounty should continue for a period of seven years from 1 January 1980. There is already legislation in force to 31 December 1 979 and now the further seven years from 1 980 is to be covered. It was the Industries Assistance Commission's view, however, that the present bounty is high. Further, the Commission considered that significant improvement in the international competitiveness of Australia's book manufacturing was unlikely while the industry remained fragmented. 
The commissioners of the Industries Assistance Commission who looked at this industry, and whose report which I mentioned is dated 3 1 July 1978, argued that at the original bounty rate of 25 per cent- the rate which applied between 1969 and 1974- some rationalisation had occurred in the book sector of the printing industry. However, since the increase of the rate to 33  Vi  per cent in 1974, the assertion by the commissioners was that production had become progressively more fragmented. Therefore, the IAC recommended that the long term rate should be returned to the 25 per cent rate. Recognising the need for stability in business planning they also recommended that the bounty period be extended until 31 December 1986. The Government has accepted this advice. However, the 
Government has decided to phase in the reduction in the bounty rate, that is, the reduction from 3316 per cent to 25 per cent, by leaving the bounty at the 33'/3 per cent rate until the end of 1982, then setting it at 30 per cent for the year 1983 and finally setting the rate at 25 per cent from 1 January 1984. This contrasts with the lAC's recommendation that the new rate of 25 per cent be brought in on 1 January 1 982 . 
Finally, the IAC argued that the various eligibility criteria employed since 1969 may have led to the payment of bounty for publications of a kind likely to be printed overseas. However, to avoid the need for a complex set of eligibility criteria, the Commission argued that the criterion which most determined the likelihood of import competition for book production was the size of the order. I will quote the argument of the IAC from its report: 
Of 700 imports examined, only 0.4 per cent involved orders of less than 1,000. The Commission considers that, by setting the minimum order size at 1.000 copies, almost all books not subject to overseas competition will be excluded, and the need for a complex set of eligibility criteria will be avoided. 
Based upon this reasoning, the Bill incorporates the revised eligibility criteria recommended by the IAC, incorporating a minimum order size of 1 ,000 copies if the particular bounty is to be applied. It is this last mentioned aspect of the Bill to which the Opposition objects. It is our view, based as I will show in a moment on representations and submissions made to us which seem to be good, that the rather arbitrary minimum level of 1,000 copies will be detrimental to the continued operation of efficient, more specialised smaller printers. The figure of 1,000 was first suggested to the IAC by the Printing and Allied Trades Employers Federation of Australia, a body which frankly represents the larger printing organisations, not the smaller ones. In our view, the smaller printers were not properly heard on this issue. 
The IAC, having heard this representation, then rationalised this figure of 1,000 on what I consider to be a fallacious analysis that only 0.4 per cent of import orders involved less than 1,000 copies. But these figures were based upon import orders during the operation of a bounty scheme when local printers, both large and small, were being protected, more printing was being done in Australia than otherwise would be the case, and when only large orders may have been profitable enough to be handled by overseas printers. Thus the lAC's evidence in support of a figure of 1,000 is quite inappropriate and irrelevant. It would have been appropriate only if it was based upon the import figure in the absence of any protection or assistance. For this reason, the Opposition rejects the 1 ,000 run requirement as being based upon a rather flimsy analysis. 
I have a suspicion that the IAC was hoping to use the restrictive eligibility criteria to reduce the fragmentation in the industry by forcing out of business many smaller printers. However, we in the Opposition argue that the sudden exclusion of small orders from eligibility for bounty payments is quite unacceptable as an instrument for reducing fragmentation. I have already said something about their often being the need for rationalisation in many industries, but in many cases this way of going about things is the wrong way. This is especially so when the Government has been encouraging the smaller, more specialised printers, not only by the provision of a bounty hitherto, but also by the provision of the 4 per cent investment allowance. The reduction of fragmentation in this way is quite unacceptable as an instrument when the social and economic costs of this move involving bankruptcies and redundancies are compared with the small benefits as measured by the very small reduction in Government expenditure brought about by making the runs a thousand or more in order to attract the bounty. 
The IAC estimated that if the more limited eligibility criteria had been adopted in the 1 976-77 financial year, bounty payments would have been almost $lm less-in fact, $920,000-with only part of this figure attributable to books printed in runs of less than 1,000 since eligibility is to be restricted in ways in addition to the 1,000 copies requirement. If a minimum order size is required, the Opposition suggests that the figure should be 500. We believe this would be far more appropriate, from what we have learned from those in the industry, than the 1,000 that has been included in this legislation. This figure was unsuccessfully put to the IAC by Craftsman Press Pty Ltd and the Australian National University on behalf of the Association of Australian University Presses and the Australian ViceChancellor's Committee. It is also the substance of representations made to me by a small South Australian facsimile printing firm, Austaprint which has specialised in the reproduction of early colonial books, something which I believe ought to be encouraged and which we would like to continue to exist in this country. In addition, the Australian Book Publishers Association has made objections to any minimum order size requirement. I do not think it will be altogether happy with the 500 recommended by the Opposition. It certainly will not be happy with the minimum run of 1,000 set down in the Bill. For this reason I give notice of my intention to move a second reading amendment to the Bounty (Books) Amendment Bill requiring that it be withdrawn and redrafted. I am unable to move my amendment at the Committee stage because it involves an increase in government expenditure by the payment of an additional bounty to those who have book runs of between 500 and 1,000 copies. I am left with only one means of recording the Opposition's objection to the requirement of 1,000. Therefore I give notice now that when we are considering the second reading of the Bounty (Books) Amendment Bill I will move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the House, whilst supporting bounty assistance for local printers, is of the opinion that the Bill should be withdrawn and re-drafted to provide such assistance for minimum runs of 500 copies instead of the present 1,000 copies in order to aid smaller, more specialised printers who have previously been encouraged to invest in facilities through, for instance, the investment allowance and who must bc encouraged to undertake structural adjustment in more equitable and less costly and disruptive ways. 
We do not suggest that there should not be rationalisation; that there is not a need for economies of scale; or that the Government coffers are such that the amount of bounty available is limitless. We suggest that at this stage it would be far more equitable, less disruptive, and less likely to lead to bankruptcy in printing firms if the order was 500 rather than 1,000. In summary, the Opposition is not opposing the Bounty (Injection-moulding Equipment) Bill 1979, but we will be moving a second reading amendment to the Bounty (Books) Amendment Bill 1979. 
-This is a debate on two Bills, the Customs Tariff Validation Bill and the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2). Let me say at the outset that the Opposition does not oppose either of these Bills. I mention with the indulgence of the House that the Opposition moved an amendment to the motion that the Bounty ( Books ) Amendment Bill be read a second time but we did not call for a division on that question because agreement has been reached that the time that has now been saved can be used to permit additional debate at the second reading stage of the Australian Federal Police Bill after debate is concluded on these Bills. 
The purpose of the Customs Tariff Validation Bill is to provide for the validation until 31 December 1979 of duties collected under Customs Tariffproposals introduced into this Parliament during this session and not covered by the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill 1979 which was debated in this House last week. The Customs Tariff Amendment Bill which was passed on 3 1 May will consolidate Customs Tariff Proposals Nos. 1 to 15 in the Customs Tariff Act. However, the Government has also introduced Customs Tariffproposals Nos. 16 and 17 on 3 May, No. 18 on 22 May and No. 19 on 5 June, which Proposals were not contained in the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill that I referred to earlier. These Tariffproposals which were not contained in the earlier legislation relate to decisions by the Government on recommendations by the Industries Assistance Commission on four separate items. The first is the IAC report on nuts, bolts and screws- Proposals No. 16. The second is the report on the Australian citrus industryProposals No. 1 7. The third is the report on injection moulding machines- Proposals No. 18. 
The fourth one is the report on acetyl products, oxo alcohols, butyl alcohols and vices- Proposals No. 19. However, Customs duty collected on these Proposals, namely Proposals Nos. 1 6 to 19, are protected from legal challenge only until the end of this session of Parliament which we of the Opposition understand from the Government, although we have not been kept fully apprised, maybe some time tomorrow. Because the Government is unable to prepare another Customs Tariff Amendment Bill before the House adjourns for the winter recess, it is introducing this Customs Tariff Validation Bill to give legal authority to Customs duty collected up until 31 December of this year. This Bill therefore enables the Government to cover itself temporarily. 
Because validation Acts have a limited life, ultimately these changes will have to be incorporated in amendments to the Customs Tariff Act via a Customs Tariff Amendment Bill. We presume that that Bill will be introduced in the Budget session. This Customs Tariff Validation Bill is therefore an element of the procedure which allows the Government to implement tariff variations without first having to legislate for these changes. That is, this Bill is part of the special provisions which enable quick alterations to the tariff. 
I remind the House that in the debate last week on the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill I set out the procedures relating to the enactment of tariff proposals which have been in operation for some 15 years. I will not go through that list again but I draw attention to that debate in which I set out the procedures. The consequence of these procedures is that individual tariff changes are not given the same scrutiny through full debate in the House as is given to other legislative changes such as assistance through bounties. I will not repeat the points that I made in that debate. I merely want to draw attention to them because surely the most feasible way of achieving proper consideration of tariff changes is to have a parliamentary standing committee examine and report on each change as soon as possible after the Government gazettes the tariff proposals. Such a standing committee could meet during the parliamentary recess when proposals are made known and much of the work could be done then. This would allow the representatives of the people to exercise proper scrutiny over proposals which are of immense importance to job creation and many other features of our economic life. I would be glad if the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  at some stage, as he has now had notice for a week or two of this, would give an opinion on this suggestion of mine. 1 am not suggesting he is able to do so in this debate because he has had the courtesy to tell me he has been called away on other business and is unable to take part in the debate. Unless, as I hope, the Government falls in the meantime there will be other opportunities for him to talk in tariff debates in the Budget session and perhaps he could then give me an opinion on this suggestion. 
The procedures currently in operation may have been satisfactory during the 1960s and early 1 970s but they are not satisfactory today. With three-quarters of a million Australians unable to find a job- that is, the Australians who want one- and with enormous changes taking place in our trading patterns, and so on, each one of the IAC reports, as I have indicated earlier, and each one of the tariff proposals which flow from Government decisions about the IAC's advice is more sensitive in nature and more important to our economy than previously applied and requires close scrutiny. 
I turn to the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979. The purpose of this Bill is to increase the excise on naturally occurring liquid petroleum gas from $13 to $14 per kilolitre. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  announced this excise increase in a statement to the House on 2 May this year and the higher rate has been in effect since 3 May. At the time of this announcement my colleague, the shadow Minister for Minerals and Energy, did not oppose this move. Similarly, and for the same reasons, we do not oppose this Bill now before the House. We do not oppose the increase in excise, because it will offset windfall profits which accrue to the producers of liquid petroleum gas. 
Since the last increase in excise from $ 12.60 to $13 a kilolitre in December last year, the Prices Justification Tribunal has allowed the price of LPG sold on the domestic market to increase by $27 to $1 10 a tonne. This increase has brought the domestic price almost in line with export parity, which on 1 May was $ 1 1 6.40 a tonne. Such an increase in the domestic price was necessary to encourage usage of LPG in Australia. If there had been a margin between the cost of LPG and the cost of natural gas, needless to say, natural gas would have been used and the LPG would have been flared. At the time that the domestic price was $27 a tonne less than the export price, the Bass Strait producers of natural LPG had no economic incentive to sell on the Australian market. There was far greater scope for increased earnings by exporting their production. Bringing the domestic and export prices into line will  therefore create a more favourable economic climate for producers to develop a domestic market. This market for our own LPG is of great value to us. Our own energy should be used to the greatest extent possible in this country, particularly if the cost of that energy is marginally lower than the cost of energy available to our competitors. This should enable us to create jobs in this country. 
In the face of rapidly increasing prices for imported oil supplies, liquid petroleum gas is the only fuel now available to the transport sector which can be used to decrease Australia's consumption of motor spirit. In 1976 the Royal Commission on Petroleum recognised that LPG was the only available alternative to motor spirit in Australia before 1990. It is not that we are opposed to the export of Bass Strait LPG, but if steps can be taken to encourage domestic usage, then in terms of Australia's energy needs this is the more desirable course of action. 
The energy value of Australia's reserves of LPG is equivalent to about 50 per cent of the remaining recoverable reserves of crude oil in Bass Strait. Therefore, this resource can make a considerable contribution to Australia's liquid fuel requirements. Even with the $27 increase in price, LPG remains about 12.5c a litre cheaper than motor spirit. Although consumption per kilometre is greater than that for petrol, at this price differential a vehicle will save about $ 14 for every 1,000 kilometres travelled on LPG. A higher price was necessary to encourage producers to develop a domestic market, but even at this higher price LPG retains its competitive advantage over motor spirit. 
Although raising the price to export parity was desirable, this does not mean that producers should receive substantial windfall profits by way of the $27 a tonne price increase, as this increase occurred without any corresponding increase in production costs. For this reason the Opposition supports the increase in excise by $ 1 a kilolitre provided that returns to producers are still sufficient to encourage the penetration of the domestic liquid fuel market. They are the reasons why the Opposition supports this measure. I repeat that the Opposition support not only the Customs Tariff Validation Bill 1 979 but also the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill ( No. 2 ) 1 979. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-There are clearly still many, many questions that have to be answered. The first one is: Why is it that an article which may or may not appear in a national newspaper tomorrow morning flushes out this statement tonight? Why is it that we were within 24 hours of this Parliament's going into recess with this grave statement- these grave allegations against the Minister- still hanging over him without any explanation to this Parliament? I remind this House that 24 November last year, seven months ago, was the last time that the Opposition raised the question in this House. On that occasion it had been 34 months since these problems first came to the fore. It is now 41 months since we first learnt of the defalcations that have taken place, since, indeed, all the suspicions that must be aroused further by this statement from the Minister first came to light. Many of the questions which I raised in this Parliament on 24 November 1978 are questions that still have to be answered. 
The first one is the one I have alluded to. Why has it taken 41 months for this sort of statement to be made? And it is only the first instalment. Why indeed does it have to be an article which may be published in the Melbourne  Age  tomorrow that has flushed out this statement? That is my first question. The second question is: Why has this Minister made misleading statements about this affair, not only in this House but also on the Willesee program on a previous occasion and in answers to questions asked by the former Leader of the Opposition. I can go through some of these quotations. The Minister said on 12 October 1977: 
It has been reported that there is a deficiency of more than $250,000 in company funds. There are no amounts outstanding which have not been accounted for within the company or between the shareholders. 
That is a quotation from this Minister himself on one of these occasions. 
There were many other occasions. I have mentioned the Willesee program. I mentioned the questions put by the former Leader of the Opposition. These are all to be found detailed in  Hansard  of 24 November 1978, on page 3402 and following pages. I need not go further into them tonight. Why have we not had drawn to the attention of this House the national significance of these defalcations? There is the amount of tax that has been forgone because of the $542,125 which is now a claim against these companies. Why was that not drawn to the attention of this Parliament before? Why indeed did the Minister get up tonight and pretend that this was a personal explanation when there are these matters of national concern involved in these affairs? 
Let me continue. Maybe I could just interpose here that this is not just a question of a fair go for the Minister. There is the matter of a fair go for the Australian people, who have a Minister like this involved in the affairs of this country. Let me continue with some of the questions which were raised in the House at that time. To what extent can we be certain that the accountants' report is an independent one, inasmuch as the accountants were the firm of the father of the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party himself? Why have we not got an explanation of the fact that there was a solicitor who was looking after the disparate interests of the many groups involved in this affair? There is no evidence coming forward that the explanation given by the Minister is built on an objective analysis of the affairs as they are today, grave though the admissions are that are in those statements. 
However, I will end on this note. Why indeed is it that we have had the Lynch affair, with that Minister being stood down; the Garland affair, with that Minister being stood down when grave allegations were made against him; the Robinson affair, with that Minister being stood down when there were matters like this hanging over his head; not to mention the Withers affair as well? There probably would be others I could mention if I were not speaking on the spur of the moment. Why is it that this Minister, with an amount of over half a million dollars at stake, with at least $200,000 of that being public funds because of the claims for taxation, has not stood down and has not taken his medicine as the others had to take their medicine during the time of their investigations? I end as I began. We are only just beginning to see the tip of the iceberg. This is only the first instalment. It is a totally unsatisfactory statement as far as I am concerned and, I believe, as far as any objective observer of this scene is concerned. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Adelaide moving a motion of censure of the Minister for Primary Industry and the Prime Minister. 
We heard from the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  earlier today that the Government would be prepared to allow this subject to be debated. I am now seeking the suspension of Standing Orders. I note that honourable members opposite are indicating that they do not oppose the motion. In that case I will not proceed further with it. 
I move: 
1 ) That this House censures the Minister for Primary Industry because of- 
his contradictory and misleading statements in relation to his family financial affairs, the latest statements about which disclose misappropriations between $500,000 and $ 1 ,000,000; 
his reluctance to report to the Parliament fully and promptly, with delays covering nearly three and a half years and the latest statement being forced by the publication of a newspaper article; 
his failure to show that he has not benefited personally from the misappropriations; 
his lack of candour in his most recent statement in neglecting to admit his own responsibility as a director of some of the companies concerned; and 
his responsibility for the loss of Government revenue due to the avoidance of tax liabilities resulting from claims for misappropriations; and 
) That this House censures the Prime Minister for failing previously to suspend the Minister for Primary Industry and now to dismiss him. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  deserves the grave censure of this House for all of the reasons that I have listed in the motion and more which I hope I shall have time to outline. Firstly, on 12 August 1977, the Minister issued a Press release to the Press Gallery which I will quote in full. It stated: 
It has been reported that shareholders of a North Shore Funeral Company, including myself, met today. 
Such a meeting was held. 
I am not a shareholder. I attended as a Director of the Company and as proxy for a family company. 
It has also been reported that there is a deficiency of more than $250,000 in Company funds. 
There are no amounts outstanding which have not been accounted for within the Company or between the shareholders. 
So ends that Press release. In the light of what was divulged last night after over 4 1 months of waiting for such a statement, incomplete though it is, could there by anything more misleading than that Press release which went into the Press gallery? Clearly, the Minister was playing with the truth and clearly he was trying to cover up. That was not all. 
Let us now turn to the Mike Willesee interview of 15 August 1977.  Mr Willesee  mentioned the deficiency in funds of $250,000. He was not as up to date as we are now. The Minister's first words after the Mike Willesee introduction were: 
Well, you 've certainly blown up the story Mike. 
Then there was the attempted confusion of seeking to show that he was not a shareholder of the troubled companies. But Sinclair Pastoral Co. Pty Ltd was a shareholder, and guess who benefited from that? Later on in this interview are some more gems which the Minister gave as answers. First of all let me quote the Willesee question. It states: 
But you say the term misappropriation is being misread by people like me, even though it is in the  order of  $250,000 you say. 

 Mr Sinclair answered: 
Yes but you haven't looked at how much money has been lent to the companies Mike and you don 't know what the net sum is. You see, this is what it is all about. You 've blown up a sum of $250,000. If you look at the other side of the ledger you will see that there are equally sums, in fact there is more than that, that has been borrowed from the company. 
The Minister is once again misleading the public and misleading this Parliament by suggesting that there were not misappropriations at all. I could also quote him on other occasions, not only from that interview but from elsewhereexamples of the great cover up. He answered questions from me in this Parliament and from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  from the member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  and from  Mr Whitlam,  the former Leader of the Opposition. Every time one looks at the text of these answers one sees more evidence of the Minister seeking to mislead the people about the true nature of this charge that hangs over him at the present time. 
Let me now turn to the second part of my censure motion, which concerns the Minister's reluctance to report to the Parliament fully and promptly. The delays cover three and a half years, or just short of that, 4 1 months. The Opposition has waited and waited. The people have waited and waited for answers. We have been patient; the people have been patient. The last occasion on which this subject was raised in this Parliament was over six months ago when I moved the following censure motion in this House: 
That this House censures the Minister for Primary Industry because, among other reasons, he has failed: 
1 ) to provide the Parliament with a satisfactory explanation in rebuttal of serious public charges made against him in relation to his financial affairs, and 
to justify, in particular, taxation claims for misappropriations made by companies with which he is associated amounting to over one quarter of a million dollars which deductions cost the public purse over $115,000. 
We did not know the full facts at that time. Once again we get the bland reply from the Minister in that debate. There was nothing to worry about, he told us. It was all a private matter. A full explanation would be made in time. What time? How long did we have to wait? In his statement last night the Minister admitted that he had been flushed out by being tipped off that a newspaper story on the scandal was about to appear in the Melbourne  Age  this morning. He admitted to this. He said in the statement: 
. in view of information which has come to me about the reported purchase by the Melbourne  Age  newspaper of confidential documents relating to the investigation and which, I understand, are to be published in tomorrow  'sAge  I seek to make this statement tonight. 
In other words he was not going to come clean with this Parliament or the public in other circumstances. All this vital information was available, but there was no way we were going to learn about it. It was only because of this threat of the  Age  article that it comes out. Does he not think that what he had to say to this House last night is not of public concern? Of course it is. Essential information about the affairs of a Minister of the Crown of the nature that we learnt last night is a public affair and is of great concern. Of course, he should have volunteered the information, incomplete though it is, rather than have it flushed from him in the ignominious way that it has come out. He knows- and we all knowthat he was seeking to buy a few more months. The reason he was seeking to buy a few more months was the grave nature of the charge. He knew that the parliamentary recess was coming up. He knew he could possibly buy those few more months. He had only another day of this parliamentary session to withstand. He wanted to borrow some more time. His reputation suffers further because of the way this had been flushed out from him. 
The third point in my resolution concerns the matter of who benefited from this amount of $542, 125, which is the present known amount of misappropriation. I put it in that way because last night's statement itself does not make clear whether a further $292,000.31, also identified as losses by misappropriations, is included in the $542,000. Perhaps if we had been allowed questions in this House, as indeed senators were allowed questions in the Senate to get vital information from this debate, I need not have raised these questions now. They should have been answered publicly by this Minister. We gave him the opportunity to do so. I will not canvass the reasons why that has not come before us. 
Another thing of concern is that the figures do not add up. If we add together the $250,093 as shown in the group accounts of Reliance Investments Pty Ltd as a loan to the Sinclair Pastoral Co. Pty Ltd, with the further misappropriation, we do not get the same figure as that total of $542, 125. 1 can only think that the statement was got together in such a way that it is not accurate. Also, there is another inaccuracy in the statement. At one place we are told the Minister received a loan of $2,000. In another place we are told the amount is $4,000. There is no relationship between the two. What we do know is that there is an amount of something over half a million and something under one million still unaccounted for and to be explained. We do not know who benefited from it. Is it any wonder that we seek far more explanations than we are receiving. Is it any wonder that we felt that we in the Opposition were wronged in not being allowed to question this Minister on a matter of such grave public concern in Question Time today? Who were the beneficiaries? Let me quote from a report in the  Australian Financial Review  of 10 November 1978. It states: 
Primary Industry Minister,  Mr Sinclair,  told Parliament in a personal explanation yesterday that one of his family companies, the Sinclair Pastoral Company, owned 10 houses in Sydney and had a mortgage on another, although rent was only paid on three houses. 

 Mr Sinclair was responding to Labor backbencher, John Armitage, who claimed that a house owned by the company at 3 1 View Street, Woollahra, was tenanted but on a no-cost basis. 

 Mr Armitage said acquisition of the property represented a considerable investment for a medium-sized non-listed company, especially when its main interests were in rural production. 
An asset, valued at more than $80,000, was incurring the company costs rather than revenue, at the expense of shareholders. 

 Mr Sinclair said the company had invested in houses so that he could divest himself of shareholdings. 
Shareholdings could be said to affect my holding of a public office, ' he said. 
I'll say shareholdings could affect his holding of a public office. That is what this debate is all about.  His  shareholdings do affect his holding of a public office. Indeed, he should not hold public office because of what has been divulged already. Of course this House needs a full and clear explanation about these property holdings and how the funds were found for the investments. There has been an abject failure to explain how the Minister himself has not benefited from the misappropriations. The next part of my censure motion deals with the lack of candour in last night 's statement and on other occasions. 
-Candour. You ought to listen. This section of the motion deals with the lack of candour in explaining the Minister's responsibilities as a director of some of those erring companies. He has a serious responsibility as a director and as a Minister of the Crown. He should be giving an example of propriety in discharging those responsibilities. Instead, he has evaded the issues. I need only draw the attention of the House to the  Bulletin  article of 3 1 October 1978 where, indeed, some of the questions being put by the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commissioner,  Mr Finnane,  the investigator into these affairs, are fully canvassed and show how this matter is a public responsibility. I wish to quote from just one part of the article in  The Bulletin  in which a letter from  Mr Finnane  to  Mr Sinclair  is quoted. It states: 
I have formed the tentative view on the basis of evidence before me and of other material in my possession that you should give specific attention to certain matters to enable me to reach a conclusion as to whether certain offences may have occurred contrary to the provisions of the Companies Act 1961. 
We have this matter of public duty overhanging the Minister's head as well. The article continues: 
I wish to make it plain - 
Said  Mr Finnane  in this letter-  that the matters which I propose to forward do not comprehend all possible breaches of the Act and at a later time I may well formulate some additional questions. 
The rest of that article shows the public responsibility of this Minister in the matter of his directorship of companies and of the way that he discharged his responsibilities in that regard. The next point in the motion relates to the tax claims. If the full amount of $542,125 was not taxedthe tax rate during this period was 46c in the dollar- then the public purse has lost, due to this misappropriation, $249,377. If indeed we include only the amount which is described as misappropriation- we do not know enough from the statement; we have not been told enough yet- namely, $292,000, the loss to revenue from the tax claim amounts to $134,320. But this is only the tip of the iceberg, as I said last night. We need far more information. But we know this is the minimum amount. 
The last point in my motion directs itself to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  What is already known is more than enough to censure this Minister. I have outlined point after point which shows that he deserves that censure. Of course, the Minister for Primary Industry should be dismissed now because of the statement he made last night. But what was known earlier was more than enough for this Minister to be suspended. Why did we have a suspension in the case of the Lynch affair, a suspension in the case of the Garland affair, a suspension in the case of the Robinson affair and a dismissal in the case of the Withers affair? Yet, graver charges are made against this Minister and there is not one indication from the Prime Minister that he will be dismissed - 
-The charges are quite clearly set out in this censure motion. I have detailed them and I will go on detailing them. There is only one reason why this Minister has not been suspended or will not be dismissed. It is because he belongs to the National Country Party. This grazier from Wannon will not offend his grazier friends. It is up to the sycophants in the Liberal Party to look at this situation and to note that their own Ministers in the Liberal Party are being suspended and dismissed but there is not one bit of evidence that anything will happen to this Minister. The grazier from Wannon sits there and allows all this to take place around him. Some people say 'fair go for this Minister'. Some suggest there are no charges hanging over his head - 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that, counting the mini-Budgets, tonight's Budget will be about the sixth Budget since he became Prime Minister nearly four years ago? Which of the past five Budgets has been most successful in achieving the result of pointing the Australian economy in the present direction of double digit inflation, record levels of unemployment - 
-by leave-I thank the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  for extending the usual courtesies in allowing me a couple of hours to examine this statement. I do have a point of view to put on it. For 24 hours there apparently has been high drama surrounding the delivery of this statement. Its history is that it was to be made and then it was not to be made. I heard that it was on again and then off again. Even today I heard that it had been put on and then off again. At least it has been delivered. I congratulate the Minister at least on delivering it to the House. The rumours have been to the effect that there have been strong back bench committee objections. If those objections have been to the effect that this is a fairly ineffectual statement, trying to be all things to all men at a time when our country is crying out for strong government leadership, then I have sympathy with those back bench objectors. But I am doubtful that the objections were along those lines. 
On behalf of the Opposition let me now state an important objective which it has. If there can be a bipartisan, non-political approach in this sensitive area of industry development then we want to achieve it. We know that job-creating investment requires stability; it requires a long term investment perspective. We seek to help that investment in job creation in our country being carried out in that longer term perspective with the stability it requires. 
Our country is in dire trouble. Over half a million of our people are unemployed. Technological developments are running wild and threatening thousands of jobs. Decisions on the introduction of this technology are not being made in a neutral atmosphere. On the one hand we have payroll tax discriminating in favour of employing machines rather than people and on the other hand we have the investment allowance similarly discriminating in favour of employing machines rather than people. So we do not have neutral ground on which these decisions are being made. To a marked extent this technology has entered the tertiary sector with the silicon chip and micro-processing. This sector which in the past has absorbed the decline in employment in the primary and secondary sectors, is threatened. 
Rome is burning. Australian employment problems are enormous. Yet the Neros of the Fraser Government are fiddling. This statement is another bit of the fiddle. Let me nail the first sentence of the Minister's statement. He said: 
Australian manufacturing industry is a major beneficiary of the 1979-80 Budget. 
It is not a major beneficiary of this Budget. Nobody is benefiting from this Budget. In order to nail that opening statement I will quote from a couple of Press releases. In the Press release from the Confederation of Australian Industry,  Sir Max  Dillon said: 
Overall it is disappointed- 
That is, the Confederation of Australian Industry- as a result of the 1979-80 Budget. 
In another part of the Press release he said: 
Many of the decisions industry had anticipated from the Government in this Budget have simply not materialised. 

 Sir Max Dillon itemised the points specifically as follows: 
No significant decisions had been announced on the Crawford Report- 
I do not think that he will think that any decision of any note has been announced in this statement today. The Press release continues: 
No increase in the level of export incentives. 
I will support him on that matter in a moment. It continues: 
No depreciation allowance on commercial buildings other than those for accommodation purposes. 
No re-introduction of the Trading Stock Valuation Adjustment. 
No abolition of the 2 per cent revenue duty imposed in the May mini-Budget. 
In case any honourable member thinks that that is an isolated case, let me quote the Director of the Chamber of Manufactures of New South Wales,  Mr Noel  Mason. He said: 
There is nothing in the Budget to help manufacturing industry, which is a major source of jobs and a vital part of the economy. 
We had looked to the Government for a positive stimulus, particularly along those parts of the Crawford report which recommended increased expenditure on export incentives and industrial research and development. 
The Government has not shown the leadership that manufacturing industry expected. 
That is the response of industry to this Budget. As I have stated, the Minister's statement does nothing to alter the situation. The Budget does not tackle the problems confronting Australian industry. Instead the $ 184m increased allocation for research and development and for export market allowances largely involves funding for the present inefficient across-the-board schemes. In many cases the funds are to meet carry-over commitments. The Budget allocations have very little to do with encouraging new employmentcreating industrial development. I will discuss this matter in detail later. 
Let me mention two enormous difficulties faced by the Minister for Industry and Commerce. They arise from the whole thrust of the Crawford report. Under the heading 'A time for realism ' the report states at page 1 8 of volume 1 : 
The Study Group believes that it will be impossible for manufacturing industry to undertake transition- 
That is, restructuring for competitiveness-  without government involvement. 
The first difficulty that the Minister faces when doing anything meaningful to help industry is his own philosophy, and indeed the philosophy of the Fraser Government and the philosophy of members of the Liberal and National Country parties who support that Government. They cannot support the sort of involvement set out in the philosophy of the Crawford study group. Government members do not believe in government involvement. They do not believe in the type of partnership between government and the private sector that we in the Labor Party support. They do not believe in that vital planning framework which is essential if anything worthwhile is to be done to help the manufacturing sector and to create employment in this country. I will return to that planning framework in a moment. 
The other great difficulty faced by the Minister for Industry and Commerce in bringing down a statement on a report such as that of a study group which has a philosophy different from his own is related to the last point I have just made. It is a necessary ingredient if changes are to be made so that we can compete against imports and get out and sell exports, namely, expansionary budgetary and monetary policies. Instead we are living in an environment of the most contractionary, recessionary, depression-making Budget that this country has had to withstand for many years. Receipts are up 15 per cent. At a time when inflation is admitted to be 10 per cent, expenditure is up only 9 per cent. There is this contraction about the Budget. It does not set the framework for that restructuring to take place in manufacturing industry which is vital if it is to be restructured in a way that will create jobs for the half a million Australians who are out of employment at the moment. 
We have to live in an atmosphere created by the macro-economic policy which has been brought down in the Budget. We have to put up with it over the next year but it is so wrong for the charges that are necessary. Because of these irreconcilable difficulties, we can claim quite legitimately, I believe, that the Crawford report virtually continues to gather dust. Indeed, it has probably been buried. The Minister's statement will probably have the effect of burying it. In essence his statement is little more than further promises that something will happen in the future. In a few cases it represents policy aboutfaces. In another place it deals with the establishment of more committees or task forces. In yet another place it talks about stalling until other committees have reported. I refer to the Campbell Committee and the Myers Committee. In other cases it refers to recommendations 'still under active review'. That in essence is what the Minister's statement, which addresses itself to the recommendations of the Crawford report, is about. 
I mentioned earlier that any claims to the effect that the Budget helps manufacturing industry are quite illusory. I illustrate this point as it relates to two important instruments for change. The Minister and I fully agree on the importance of these instruments, namely, research and development incentives and export assistance. Let me talk, first of all, about research and development assistance. The Budget allocation for industrial research and development incentives is up by $8m, or 33 per cent, to $32m. However, the increased allocation is considerably less than the level of funding required to meet, firstly, the carry-over commitments from last year. Anyone who has taken an interest in this area will know just how vast are those carry-over commitments. The Australian Industry Research and Development Incentives Board has had to stall time and again in relation to them. Those carry-over commitments amount to $6m. Secondly, this funding does not meet a real level of demand for industrial research and development assistance which is equivalent to the level apparent in the 1978-79 figures. 
What I am saying is that under the present rules- leave alone argument about those rules for research and development assistance being changed, and I would advocate that there is great need for change to make the funding on a more selective basis- and without change at all, the level of assistance in this Budget does not meet past or present commitments for this financial year. By not attempting to meet the current level of commitment for industry research and development assistance within Australian industry the Government is putting the Australian Industry Research and Development Incentives Board in a difficult position. Because it received a strong response from industry and does not want to dampen the awakening interest in research and development activity the Board is tempted to devise ways and means of reconciling the demand with limited funding. It is considering the options of delayed payments and of delaying the processing of applications in order to maintain momentum. It has already started to downplay heavily the role of commencement grants. Because of this the Board runs the risk of getting back to a position, as happened last year, in which the Government will be forced to bail it out from an over commitment of funds. That is the sad situation which we find in this important research and development incentives area. 
I now turn to export incentives. The story regrettably is the same in that area. A substantial increase in the allocation for export incentive grants is largely illusory. The $170m allocation- I admit an increase of $ 150m- is to fund carry-over commitments only. But none of the money relates directly to encouraging new exports. The carry-over involves completion of payment of outstanding claims from the last financial year- $ 110m under that heading- and the payment of some of the claims from current year of $60m. The huge backlog of claims is as a result of the insufficient allocation of funds and staff in the last Budget. All we are going to do by continuing this policy is to disaffect people, to discourage them from what is so vitally needed, and that is getting up, getting out and encouraging exports from this nation. 
In summary, there are no new initiatives in this 1979 Budget in these important areas of research, development and exports. So the existing policies- described in the Crawford report as 'incomplete, funded inadequately, intermittent and spread too thinly'- of the Fraser Government continue. Yet we have claims that this Budget is some great document for industry. It is not. I mentioned earlier that the Australian Labor Party believes that it is essential to use these instruments to bring about change. These are the positive, carrot ways of bringing about change to improve competitiveness. This is much more satisfactory than using the negative, punitive stick of tariff reductions. We do not rule out tariff changes. Reductions are to be aimed for in an ideal situation. There is a place for tariff reduction where those reductions follow changes which have already been made; where they create new jobs- which they can do by lowering the cost of production input- where there are alternative jobs for those displaced; where it means that consumers get cheaper goods; where it means that those consumers have more money left in their pockets to buy new goods. Extra demand creates extra production, and that means extra jobs. There is a place also for reduction in order to initiate change where we cannot bring it about by more positive ways through research and development incentives or export market allowances. 
We have seen a good example of this change coming about in an orderly way by the use of the tariff- I congratulate the Government and support it in what it has done- in the white goods industry. The merging of the Simpson-Pope and Malleys companies and the merging of the Email and Kelvinator companies we hope will bring about stronger units, economies of scale and increased employment through a rational approach. But at the same time I would have liked more government leadership to make sure that the decisions being made in the market place are the best and the least costly possible. I believe that with proper planning mechanisms with a policy of greater partnership between the government and private sectors we will achieve just that. In an ideal world there is a place for tariff reductions but we have to treat them cautiously. Too often the slashing of the tariff is counter-productive. It merely throws people on to the dole queue. We have seen that in relation to an announcement yesterday concerning Firestone Australia Pty Ltd, the tyre manufacturer. I refer to that announcement as one example of tariff changes which have been nothing but counter-productive to this point. I highlight the difficulties of 700 workers thrown out of work at the Firestone plant. I quote from a statement which reads: 
It was announced today that Firestone has decided to close down its tyre manufacturing plant at Auburn New South Wales with a loss of 700 jobs. 
The reasons given were: Over capacity, import competition, changing market conditions. Firestone enjoyed a market share of . . . 6 to 7 per cent. 
I could go on but I have said enough to highlight the difficulties of poor tariff policy being implemented without any help for those being thrown out of work, without any positive government measures to see that jobs are created for those thrown out of work. Tariff reductions must be used cautiously. We do not rule them out if plenty of notice is given and if there is gradualism. It is possible that the desired result is being achieved in the white goods industry now. I make the charge that there are more committees, more reviews, more pigeon-holing and more stalling in this statement than has met the eye so far. 
I shall list the areas where there have been such errors of omission, where there is such a lack of decision making. I refer to the recommendation in the Crawford committee report for an innovations authority. This is one of the recommendations that has been stalled. It has been put to another committee. I refer to the depreciation allowance on manufacturing buildings. We have not had a real announcement of a real policy in this area in this statement presented by the Minister today. I refer to the whole area of finance and to the need particularly for medium and smaller businesses to have more adequate finance at a reasonable rate of interest. There is nothing about that in this statement by the Minister. There is no decision from the Government in spite of the fact that it has had the recommendations from the Crawford committee for over six months now. The Government is waiting for the Campbell committee report to be presented in this House. When that happens we will have another interdepartmental committee, another wait for six months and another statement from another Minister about what the Government will do about the Campbell committee recommendations. Much of that statement will say that the recommendations will be pushed on to another committee to report. This highlights the lack of government leadership which is the hallmark of this Fraser Government at a time when there are over half a million unemployed in this country. 
What about that recommendation about the Australian Bureau of Statistics? One of the great characteristics of the Fraser Government has been its decimation of the Australian Bureau of Statistics. We are getting less and less information on which to build proper policies for the health of Australian industry, not more and more as recommended by the Crawford inquiry. We are getting more and more staff ceilings and slower decisions about computers because of earlier bungles. This is the highlight of this Government's policies. Similarly, I refer to regional policies which were recommended by the Crawford inquiry and which were completely set aside in this statement from the Minister. We do not have anything concrete from this Government on these vital areas.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  coming from South Australia, you know that they are vital to you and to me. We are concerned about industry specific policies and the need for a better policy than we have now for the motor manufacturing industry. 
On the subject of industry- specific policy, we of the Labor Party take some pride in the fact that we supported such policies long before Crawford reported. As I have said in other fora, I am prepared to say to which industries those policies should be applied. I particularly list the motor vehicle manufacturing industry; the clothing and textiles industries; the footwear industry; the fabricated steel industry; the whitegoods industry and other industries. But we have not had such leadership from the Fraser Government in this statement. It contains vague expressions of support for industry- specific policies but there are no details in this statement of what industries are being referred to and what the policies might be. 
Finally let me refer to this statement, the Crawford report and the difficulties that this Minister has had. I believe that the report destroys some of the Fraser Government's sacred cows. The report of the Study Group on Structural Adjustment was critical by implication of the Government's inflation-first strategy. It noted that economic recovery 'would not solve all of industries problems' and that 'it is appropriate for government to assist change by promoting employment creating industrial development'. Further, the study group rejected the Government's doctrinal reliance upon the solutions offered by market forces. It concluded that market forces alone cannot achieve the desired adjustment in a reasonable time and without a major degree of disruption. The report also shattered the Government's complacency about its industry development initiatives. It found that the range of programs is incomplete'. It found that the 'programs are not funded adequately'. It found that 'assistance has been spread too thinly' and 'programs . . . have been of an intermittent nature' and suffer from 'a serious communication gap between industry and government'. I quote from the report for very good reasons, and they are that at a vast expense of $100,000 or more four of the most respected people in the industrial area in this country have come out with recommendations which are opposed to the philosophy of this Fraser Government. That is the reason for this feeble statement that we heard this afternoon. 
I hope that I will have another occasion on which to say more about the Crawford report and about the policies of the Labor Party in relation to it- policies which will do something about creating jobs in this community through industry rather than having to put up with a statement like this which does nothing but put off decision making 
Motion ( by  Mr Staley)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bourchier)  adjourned. 
-by leave-The word 'Anzac' is a special one for Australians in the short history of this nation. The Anzac tradition, particularly as it relates to Gallipoli and the achievements of our fighting forces, not only in Gallipoli but also elsewhere and at other times, is important for most Australians, even the younger generation. I felt this most when I visited Gallipoli about eight years ago with a delegation from this Parliament. To be aware, for instance, that a couple of my great uncles were buried there, that my father fought there over 60 years ago and that thousands of Australians have visited that strange remote corner of the world was a moving experience and all part of our Australian experience in reaching nationhood. 
I suppose that outwardly we are about the least patriotic group of people in the world. Along with that lack of patriotism we are less emotional than most other people about things such as the word 'Anzac'. But it is a special Australian word. In spite of the change in the statutory rules to which the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  drew attention in his statement it will continue to be a special word with a special meaning. Times change and the rules must change to fit those times. The slight alteration to the rules made by the Government seems to the Labor Opposition, as far as I can ascertain in the short period I have had to study the statement, to fit the changing times. I note that the Minister in his statement used the words 'in consultation with the Returned Services League'. In my view the statement would have been even stronger if he had said that the change had been made 'with the agreement of the Returned Services League' and not just 'in consultation with the Returned Services League'. However, I presume that this was so. The League has not been in touch with me to say that it was not so. 
I make one last point on this subject. The word Anzac' is also a special word for New Zealand. At a time when there is talk in the air of a closer union with our greatest friend across the Tasman it is well to remember how much we have in common with New Zealand. The special place of the word 'Anzac' is but one manifestation of this. 
Misleading statements at election time are not unknown but their use by Liberals and Liberal fronts at this time leading up to a South Australian State election next Saturday is more blatant than usual. Indeed, the statements have been false as well as misleading. Let me start with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The figures he cited for investment in South Australia in his electorate talk last Sunday are untrue and the picture he paints is, accordingly, misleading. The correct figure for projected investment in South Australia in the next five years is $33,030m, not $300m as he stated. It is 10 per cent of the total investment, not two per cent. South Australia is in the same category as Queensland and Western Australia, with rates of investment higher than normal for its population. These investment figures are based on projections by the management consultant firm of W. D. Scott and Co. Pty Ltd. They are realistic and soundly based, not falsified like the ones used by the Prime Minister. 
The figures used by him, the House should know, had footnotes expressing a number of qualifications. Some of the investments were included twice, in separate totals; yet these have all been added together by the Prime Minister in arriving at his totals. The footnotes made it clear that the figures were mutually exclusive and they made it clear that no totals should be used. Let me quote the words in the bureaucratic document. It reads: 

 Any additive exercise would have to be carefully qualified. 
What does the Prime Minister do? He uses the totals falsely and he misleads the people.  His  additive exercise' was in no way qualified. He puts himself in the same category as the Murdoch newspaper, the Adelaide  News,  which day after day has blazoned out misleading antiLabor headlines distorting the news of the day. Why? It has no interest in being objective.  Mr Murdoch,  the newspaper's proprietor, wants to damage Labor. He wants to punish the Labor Party because its members dare to question whether it is in the community's interest that he should have the licence for yet another news outlet- Channel 10 in Sydney. So his sycophantic editor in South Australia runs this vendetta against Labor at this election time, bowing meekly to his boss's wishes and at the same time degrading the so-called independence of the Press, if ever we had it. This example of political partisanship is not confined to editorials, where we can accept it. It is manifest in distorted headlines and it attacks the foundation of our democracy. Let me immediately exclude the Adelaide  Advertiser  and its coverage of this election from the charges that I make. 
Let me turn to the Prime Minister's puppet, the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is sitting at the table. I am very glad that he will have the opportunity to respond to me. Yesterday in answer to a Dorothy Dixer from the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  the Minister alleged that Roxby Downs would be a bonanza in creating jobs for the 
South Australian community. That is totally false. All that could be done in furthering Roxby has been done. The Western Mining Corporation has gone ahead with its feasibility study. It has confidence that the strict safeguards, that are the standards of the Labor Party in the matters of waste disposal, reactor safety and proliferation of nuclear weapons, will be met. It takes that risk. It thinks the safeguards will be met. Many people think those safeguards will not be met. But what is important is that all the investment that can be made in Roxby is being made and will be made between now and 1 982, when the next State election in South Australia is expected. There is no way that Roxby can create one more job for South Australians than is being and will be created by Western Mining and BP Australia Ltd and by the South Australian Labor Government between now and 1982. The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs either knows this and is being dishonest or he does not know it and is showing his incompetence by mouthing this sort of nonsense in this House. I leave it to the people to judge whether it is dishonesty or incompetence. 
Let me repeat that Western Mining and its new partner in this venture, BP, have committed themselves to spending $50m over the next two to three years on a feasibility study. No further decisions can be taken before the next State election in 1982. All the so-called facts given by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  to this House at Question Time today are not facts at all because the feasibility study has not been carried out. It is now being carried out. 
Let me turn to that Liberal front- the group of employers who are spending thousands and thousands of dollars, which they will get back from increased prices that they will charge their customers, on newspaper advertisements to bolster the campaign of their puppet,  Dr Tonkin,  the Leader of" the Liberal Party in South Australia. Why are they doing this? It is because of the incompetence of  Dr Tonkin.  It is because his approval rating is so low that the Liberals have been hiding him all the way during this campaign. They want South Australians to forget that, should the Liberals win, he is what the people will be stuck with as Premier instead of the able and confident person in Des Corcoran. Another reason this employer group, this Liberal front, has embarked on this campaign is to satisfy the political ambitions of their failed politician spokesman, a  Mr J.  L. Rundle, the  President  of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry in South Australia. He is the one who has led the employer group into this crazy intervention, into the partisan political intervention that is taking place in Adelaide right now. He was the defeated Liberal candidate for the Federal seat of Adelaide, the seat I hold, in the early 1960s. He is trying to get his frustrations out of his system in this way. 
Let me say that there are hundreds of decent, sensible employers and managers in South Australia who are appalled by this partisan political intervention and they dissociate themselves from it. They realise that it is as dangerous for employers to get involved in partisan politics as it is for a religion to do so. We do not want any Northern Irelands and Irans in this country. Many employers realise how damaging such a campaign is to industrial relations. Industrial harmony is a very delicate fabric. The South Australian Labor Government has the best record in Australia in industrial relations because it has used negotiation and conciliation instead of confrontation. That record is jeopardised by this minority of stupid employers running this Liberal front campaign. But this partisan political campaign of employers, like the false utterances of Liberal Ministers, is not only dangerous and damaging to industrial relations and the political fabric but is also dishonest. 
The level of economic activity in South Australia basically is related to Federal policies emanating from Canberra and to the nature of opportunities in South Australia, which is mainly a manufacturing State. Everywhere in the world manufacturing has been hit hardest in the economic slump. It is remarkable that South Australia, being a manufacturing State, has done so well during this time of economic slump. Because of the way in which this country has been brought to its knees by the Fraser Government, thousands more are unemployed throughout Australia since the Fraser Government took over, and South Australia has had to suffer along with the rest of Australia, only more so because of its manufacturing base. Because of policies emanating here in Canberra, there is now so much less confidence in the business sector in this country, a confidence which is vitally required for new investment. 
The railways agreement was one reason that we were spared a little of Fraser Government policy. South Australia has been spared a little from the disastrous results which that policy has had. Instead of being the first State hit in the international slump which started in 1974, my State was the last to be hit, but this was due to the Labor Government's policies in South Australia. The cuts from Canberra have been too great. 
The State Government has not been able to continue to minimise the ill effects. We are getting less money now from Canberra in general purpose capital funds than we did five years ago. Just consider what that means in real terms because of those five years of inflation. We learnt today that the Fraser Government is going to impose on South Australia and the rest of Australia import parity pricing for natural gas. This is another thing which will hit industry and the manufacturing industry in particular. These are the sorts of national government policies against which the South Australian Labor Government has had to seek to immunise the community in South Australia. It has done a very valiant job, but it has not been able to do as well as we would have liked. 
At the last Premiers Conference and Loan Council meeting in June, loan funds for South Australia were reduced by a further $50m for this coming financial year. We have now a 10 per cent inflation rate to contend with. Contemplate the effect that this will have. In real terms the Fraser Federal Government has slashed funds for South Australia by almost $60m. The Fraser Federal Government is trying to force State income taxes on the people as well. The Labor Party rejects the double taxation views of the Liberal Government. With the Tonkin Liberal Government the people of South Australia are in danger of being hit with State income taxes. My colleague the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  will have more to say in that regard. I urge the people of South Australia next Saturday to show their disgust for these Liberal policies. They should recognise the great job done by Labor to offset the burdens imposed by the Liberals. 
Let me just go through some true statistics rather than the false ones that have come from the Prime Minister and the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. In the year June 1978 to June 1979 private sector employment in South Australia has increased by 3,400. The crook statistics displayed by the Liberals in their Liberal front organisations selectively and dishonestly include the 1977-78 year when thousands more were thrown into unemployment by this Liberal Federal Government's closure of the Whyalla shipyards. It also used the 1977-78 statistics selectively and dishonestly when it included the effect that the imposition of the brandy excise had on South Australia. That year is used selectively and dishonestly by the Government when it neglects the slashing of Federal Government funds for South Australia in that year. In addition, 1 977-78 was a drought year. 
I use those three examples of the closure of the Whyalla shipyards by this Fraser Liberal Government, the imposition of brandy taxes and the slashing of funds for public works in South Australia to show that all these things had an enormous effect on the State of South Australia in the year 1977-78. Superimposed on all this was the drought of that year. Of course in that year the statistics do not show up as well as they otherwise would have done. That is the year included in the statistics by this Liberal front organisation in the advertisements which it has been putting across the pages of the various newspapers in my State. 
The future under Labor looks bright. I want to indicate this by giving these statistics. The unemployment rate has been stabilised in that State, whereas it is growing rapidly in Western Australia. In the electorate of the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs and in most other electorates in this country the statistics are worse. By using another statistic I will illustrate how retail sales increases in South Australia have been far greater than, for instance, in Victoria, which is the other manufacturing State. The consumer price index increases have been far less in my State than they have been in most other States, including Victoria. In 1978-79 building approvals were up S3 per cent, which was well above the national average. For the three months ended July 1979 motor vehicle sales were up 14.3 per cent compared with the national average of 3.7 per cent. 
With all our problems of wild cat strikes- I do recognise and deplore one that took place yesterday with the tram and bus employees in South Australia- the statistics, under a Labor Government in South Australia, show far less industrial turmoil than anywhere else in Australia. These are the real facts which make a lie of the distorted statements of the Prime Minister and others. We want a Labor Government in South Australia, particularly while the Fraser Government is in power in Canberra, to counter to the greatest extent possible the hardships to people which have been caused by the Liberals. We want a Labor Government in South Australia when Labor takes over the Federal Government of this country so that we can plan together for those extra jobs that Labor wants. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar) Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I grieve for the Bank of Adelaide and the job opportunities which it represents for South Australia and South Australians. With one stroke of the pen, the Liberal Treasurer of this nation  (Mr Howard)  could strike a blow for justice and give the opportunity for the continuing separate existence of the only regional trading bank in the Australian private sector. If the Bank of Adelaide is taken over by the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, which will be the result of the present actions of the Federal Liberal Government, in spite of the valiant efforts of the Corcoran Labor Government in Adelaide and of a number of others whom I hope to mention, then all the major trading banks in Australia will be controlled from Melbourne or Sydney. 
But what worries me most of all at this time of high unemployment is the lost job opportunities for over 1,200 South Australians at a time when my State is suffering more than enough because of the Federal Government's stagnating economic policies. Eighty job opportunities in the Bank of Adelaide subsidary, Finance Corporation of Australia Ltd, have been lost already. As a result of earlier mergers hundreds of jobs in the Australian banking system have been lost already. Maybe we shall get assurances that no one will be sacked in the ANZ takeover of the Bank of Adelaide, but can we believe those assurances? Even if we can, we know that bank branches will be merged, job opportunities will be fewer, promotion opportunities will be lessened and officers of both banks who retire or leave of their own accord will not be replaced. The staff organisations of both banks in South Australia- the ANZ Bank and the Bank of Adelaide- realise this and have had meetings and lodged protests. All that has been to no avail so far. 
But this is not the only element of lost job opportunities. The Bank of Adelaide is the only trading bank in the private sector which has South Australian directors. They know the South Australian scene. That means greater loan opportunities for South Australian enterprises because of the possibility of a loan, not only from the Bank of Adelaide but also from the other banks. The Bank of Adelaide and South Australia cannot be ignored by the other banks whilst they know that there is an Adelaide bank to which the loan applications can be turned. But if the Bank of Adelaide goes, South Australia 's needs will be ignored. The old boy network in Melbourne and Sydney will ensure that preference is given to Melbourne and Sydney. The regions of our country- Adelaide, Perth and built-on Brisbane- will be ignored more than they are ignored now. 
Why is this appalling threat hanging over us? It is because there was an error of judgment on the part of directors and management of the Bank of Adelaide and its subsidiary, FCA. Through FCA, investment was made in some land which has not yet realised its expected value. If held for long enough, the investment would be good. If only we could have some expansionary policies from the Federal Government and get this economy of ours going again. In the short run there was a temporary loss of confidence. FCA, not the Bank of Adelaide, was borrowing short to lend long. It was lending on that land. Because FCA is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank of Adelaide, the bank has suffered. I have nothing but praise for the rescue operation of the Reserve Bank of Australia and other banks in the Australian banking system when there was that loss of confidence. There was a possibility of $80m to $90m being needed in a hurry to salvage that confidence. It was found. I realise that a new injection of funds of a more permanent nature probably was and is needed for the Bank of Adelaide and that it should come from a source which has banking knowledge and experience. I can accept all these things, although I think that we now realise that the affairs of the bank were and are not nearly as bad as we originally thought and that the bank and FCA could probably trade their way out of their temporary difficulties. 
My objection- my grief- is that in the agreement which was drawn up hastily in a time of stress, when those involved thought the affairs were much worse than they were, the stipulation was laid down by the Reserve Bank and others that the Bank of Adelaide should merge withthat is a misleading phrase; be taken over by, would be more appropriate- another bank in the Australian banking system. That limited the number of people who could make offers for the Bank of Adelaide. That limitation has had an enormously adverse effect on what the bank can do- what the directors were left to do- and has had an enormously adverse effect on Adelaide and South Australia. This narrowed the field to far too great an extent. It has undervalued the license to bank, that valuable licence which is held by the Bank of Adelaide. For months now I have been asking the Liberal Treasurer, in whose hands this matter rests, to arrange for that stipulation to be altered. Four weeks ago tomorrow, to be exact, I sent him my latest telex on the subject. I know that he is surprised that I have not yet received a reply. I spoke to him today and warned him that I was going to speak on the subject in this debate. From what he has told me, I understand that he is not going to reply in the way that I want. Previously I received from him a totally unsatisfactory answer in which he said that he was not going to change anything, that he was not going to agree to lifting that stipulation that the bank could merge only with another bank in the Australian banking system. The Bank of Adelaide's directors, he said, had already agreed to the merger with the ANZ Banking Group. 
I know that other South Australian members present in the chamber who are interested in this subject would agree that that was not in any way a satisfactory answer. The Bank of Adelaide directors have had their hands tied by the agreement that the bank could merge only with another bank in the Australian banking system. Of course, when left with that very tight stipulation they had no alternative but to accept the best offer from another bank in the Australian banking system. Undoubtedly, that best offer was from the ANZ bank. If each one of us went privately to any one of those directors and asked him what he wanted he would say: 'Look, this bank is a viable, going proposition. It is not in any danger whatsoever. It is a valuable institution which originated in South Australia. It should have a continuing existence here in South Australia'. I object to the Treasurer's seeking to pull wool over my eyes and over the eyes of others by hiding behind the fact that the Bank of Adelaide directors recommended this merger. 
Because of the delicacy of these affairs and the need for confidence I have kept out of the public arena to the greatest extent possible on this subject. I could have entered that arena to an enormously greater extent than I have done. I believe that other syndicates should be invited to make offers for the whole or part of the Bank of Adelaide. I realise that those syndicates must have the approval of the Reserve Bank and of the authorities generally. For instance, the syndicates must show that they have banking expertise and experience. I realise that that is one of the stipulations that should be laid down. But I would lay down also that any syndicate making an offer for the Bank of Adelaide should have no more than a 40 per cent overseas shareholding. I named this figure because I have been told that this is the extent of the foreign shareholding in the ANZ Banking Group, that bank in the Australian banking system which has been given the nod and which at the moment looks as though it is going to purchase the Bank of Adelaide for a song. I am now told that overseas holdings in the ANZ Banking Group are probably a lot more than 40 per cent. I believe that other syndicates which have only 40 per cent or less overseas shareholdings and which have banking experience would be prepared to make an offer for at least half the shares of the Bank of Adelaide. That would not only give bank shareholders a greater return for that half of their shares that they would sell but also would- this is what is vital- provide that continuing separate existence for the Bank of Adelaide in South Australia as a regional bank. I know of one offer which would have given the Bank of Adelaide shareholders 50c more per share for half their shares than is being offered by the ANZ Banking Group. But the Treasurer has not approved of that offer being made to shareholders. That offer would give the Bank of Adelaide a continuing separate existence which I have already said is so important to us in South Australia. I appeal to the Treasurer to make this simple decision in favour of the bank so that it can have that continuing separate existence. 
I pay tribute to  Mr Cyril  White of Verbatim Reporters Pty Ltd in Perth, who at his own expense put advertisements into newspapers and received 250 letters and 1,850 signatures in reply. I pay tribute to  Mr Meyer  Solomon,  Mr Des  Rundle,  Mr Vin  Keane,  Mr Bill  Hayes and many others in Adelaide who have fought for the Bank of Adelaide. It is sound. Everyone can have confidence in that bank. I pay tribute to Des Corcoran of the South Australian Labor Government for that Government's struggle. 
I hope that all shareholders, depositors and, indeed, supporters of the Bank of Adelaide next Saturday will give Des Corcoran their support to continue the battle. At the moment, the Liberals are responsible for Adelaide losing its bank. South Australians should remember this as they go to the polls. It is only if there is a resounding vote for Des Corcoran and others by those who support the Bank of Adelaide that we will have the right sort of support to request the Treasurer to change the decision that he has made, or indeed demand that he do so. That change is a simple one. The Opposition only wants him, by a stroke of the pen, to allow another syndicate to make an offer for the Bank of Adelaide so that interest in the Bank is not restricted, as it is now, to another bank in the Australian banking system. I grieve on this subject. I believe it is absolutely vital for the Bank of Adelaide to continue its existence. 
-by leave-The Opposition has been content to facilitate the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  making this statement to the Parliament even though he has not followed the normal procedure of allowing the statement to be in the hands of the Opposition for a couple of hours. We are concerned about the Federal Narcotics Bureau. We are glad that the Government has been considering the Bureau's position. There has been a great amount of unease in the community concerning the Bureau's relationship with the Federal police and the various State police forces and whether it is controlled by the correct government department. Many other questions relating to the Bureau have exercised the minds of those of us in the Opposition who have responsibility in this area. The subject of drugs and drug trafficking has exercised the minds of all Opposition members. We are concerned that there has not yet been a report on the allegations that information went from the Bureau to drug traffickers. The Minister and the House will remember that such allegations were made in June at the time that the murder of  Mr and Mrs Douglas  Wilson was discovered. We know that a special committee was set up to investigate these allegations. It was stated at the time that the Committee would report hastily to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  I take this opportunity of saying to the Minister that we hope that that report will be made public shortly. 
We are also concerned that new allegations are being made about the Federal Narcotics Bureau. I refer to a recent report in the weekly journal, the  Bulletin,  that telephone tapping has been taking place illegally. These matters need to be raised in the Parliament to show what unease there is in our minds and, we believe, in the minds of the community concerning the Federal Narcotics Bureau. We are glad that the Government has been re-examining the position of the Bureau. We think it wise that the Government used the services of the Royal Commissioner,  Mr Justice  Williams. As the Minister said in his statement, the Royal Commission is applying itself to the Federal Narcotics Bureau. The Commission is not due to report until the end of this year. It would have been extremely unwise if the Government had made decisions without the views of  Mr Justice  Williams in this sensitive area being made known. So an interim report was sought. 
The Opposition accepts the Minister's assurance that  Mr Justice  Williams has asked for this section of his report to be treated as confidential. It is understandable that this should be so. The Minister has promised me that he will make an Opposition spokesman or Opposition spokesmen in this area aware, in confidence, of some of the developments. I am glad of this and grateful to him. I hope that information will be made available in this way to the Opposition so that it can be well informed of developments. I repeat that we accept that this interim report from  Mr Justice  Williams is of a confidential nature. We accept that it will be part of a fuller report which will be made public at a later date. We also accept that it is of great importance that the Government should be making immediate decisions in this area. The Opposition will be watching developments with keen interest. 

 Mr FIFE (Farrer- Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs)- by leave- I wish to clarify a point so that there is no misunderstanding. In the context of keeping the Opposition briefed on developments in this area generally, an arrangement has been made between the Government and the Opposition. I think it is in the national interest. It is a very good arrangement. But I would not want the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  to feel that I am free to make this document available to him.  Mr Justice  Williams has asked that it be kept strictly confidential. There will be a full report later that will contain all of  Mr Justice  Williams' recommendations. That report ultimately will be tabled in this Parliament and will be available for the information of honourable members. Opportunity will be afforded by the Government for a full debate. 
Sitting suspended from 5.57 to 8 p.m. 
My question also is directed to the Acting Treasurer. It is supplementary to the one asked by the right honourable member for Lowe concerning the correctness or otherwise of reports that the Budget measure limiting to $18,000 the value for depreciation purposes of motor vehicles may be dropped. Has he had brought to his attention the strong representations of, for instance, the Federation of Automotive Products Manufacturers against the present very substantial implicit subsidy attaching to each luxury car sold in Australia under the existing depreciation and lease provisions? In other words, are ordinary taxpayers subsidising the use of these luxury cars? Are taxation deductions for expensive leasing arrangements also to be limited? If not, why not? Will the Government persist with its Budget measure or capitulate to threats, which capitulation will cause a lesser number of jobs in Australian manufacturing industry? 
-I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  to the motion for the second reading of Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1979-80. 1 remind the House of the terms of this amendment because it is now over a week since the Budget was last debated in the House. This amendment sums up most succinctly the attitude of the Australian Labor Party, the Opposition, to this Budget. We do not have the numbers to oppose the Budget and bring the Government down as we would like to do. So our amendment reads: whilst not opposing the second reading, this House condemns the Fraser Government for presenting a budget which- 
reduces the real living standards of Australian families; 
will increase unemployment to the highest level in the nation's history; 
facilitates and stimulates the recent fresh outbreak of inflation 
ensures that economic growth will be well below the nation's productive capacity; 
fails to introduce an effective job creation program, particularly for the young; 
savagely reduces the allocation of funds for job training and re-training program; 
will be responsible for the highest level of tax and total revenue collections in the nation's history; 
forces State and local governments either to reduce their services or increase their charges, and 
intensifies the lack of credibility of the Prime Minister and his Government and adds to their long list of broken promises'. 
At the outset, I will disclose my basic attitude to the role of government because it is on this that I shall build the ideas that I will convey in this speech on the Budget. On one hand I reject an abdication to market forces and on the other hand I reject universal State control. In other words, I reject the proposition that we can or should seek to achieve in this day and age anything approaching a totally free enterprise economy without any government involvement. That would mean no tariffs, no subsidies and no pensions- no government involvement whatsoever. In the same way, I reject the proposition that we should have a communist state, which is at the other end of the spectrum. The formerthat is, the totally free enterprise economy that some people still pay lip service to- assumes that we can return to the early days of the industrial revolution, laissez-faireism, when there was even more inequality, even worse living conditions, and even more exploitation of people than we have today. 
As I mentioned earlier there are still people who pay lip-service to the attitude that we ought to have no government involvement and a complete market economy. There are still people on the conservative side of politics who pay lipservice to that, but I hope that this abdication to market forces alone is gone forever. Similarly, let us hope that we shall never suffer universal state control in this country. Along with it goes a lack of personal freedom. We of the Australian Labor Party fight for individual liberties. We reject the system of the communist states which suppress those liberties. We value our freedoms and we mean to preserve them. We social democrats or democratic socialists- in other words, we members of the Labor Party- believe that people do best if they operate in a mixed economy, that is, a private business sector operating in partnership with a government sector, in which the operation of market forces is controlled by the government either through legal rules or through direct intervention. The legal rules include the tariffs that I mentioned earlier and bounties. Direct intervention includes public enterprises such as Trans-Australia Airlines and the State government insurance offices. 
The great questions- in fact, the only questions in my view- are: Where should the boundaries be set in particular cases? Democratic socialists will decide these issues in a pragmatic way on the merits of each case. Of course this is a pragmatic approach, and rightly so. I defend it as such. It is a pity that the Budget we are debating is not a more sensible, pragmatic document. Instead, because it is built on false premises, it gets itself tangled in such knots that it causes all the difficulties- one might even call them disastersset out in the amendment which I took time to read to the House, such as a reduction in living standards, more unemployment, deepening recession, a higher level of tax- the highest ever level of tax- and more inflation. I could go on. Basically, the Government has adopted the attitude that the only way to prosperity is through poverty. That attitude is as outdated as the one that for any medicine to be good it must have a rotten taste. 
A prominent Liberal- I refer to  Mr Bill  Wentworth, a former honourable member for Mackellar- summed up as well as anyone in recent years the attitude on which the Fraser Government has built its policy, which is a bad policy, by saying that through stagnation comes salvation. That is the Fraser Government's approach. That was the Fraser Government's approach when  Mr Wentworth  was a member of this House. He criticised and rejected that approach. I reject that approach, as does the Labor Party. 
The basic belief of the Fraser Government is that the only way in which to achieve a reduction in inflation and thus make us more competitive is to put a lid on the economy and create more unemployment. We of the Labor Party reject that approach. Of course we agree that we have to make this country more competitive. If we want to achieve full employment and a rising standard of living for ordinary Australians- the Labor Party wants to achieve those things- we must bring inflation under control. We must be able to compete against imports without raising the tariff. Raising the tariff adds to costs. That means more outgoings from the pockets of people and less for them to spend on other goods and services. If there is less for them to spend on other goods and services it means that less employment is being created in other areas in order to help to reduce, the terrible unemployment from which this country is suffering at present. Of course, the increased tariffs and the results of them also mean a lesser standard of living when people cannot purchase the other goods and services. 
As I said earlier, we must bring inflation under control in order to compete against imports, but we must do so also in order to be able to compete on the export market. We are a nation of only 14 million people. We lack economies of scale. We do not have the hundreds of millions of people of the European Economic Community. We do not have the hundreds of millions of people of the American customs union. We do not have the economies of scale of the 50 million to 60 million people in the industrious nation of Japan. We are therefore in a relatively precarious position. We ought to recognise just that. But we have some major advantages. One of them is our relatively lower energy costs due to our abundant supplies of coal and natural gas. Another advantage is our access to raw materials, such as our bauxite and iron ore. Another of our advantages is the skills of our people if those skills are developed in the way in which they should be developed. Yet another advantage is our proximity to Asia, the fastest growing area in the world in terms of the growth of the standard of living. There are wonderful markets there for us if we can get out and compete with exports. 
That brings me back to the matter of competing for exports. Despite our disadvantages of distance, lack of economies of scale and lack of population, we still have certain advantages. But these advantages cannot be exploited if we do not keep inflation under control. It is just downright wrong to say that the Labor Party does not recognise these facts. Where we differ from the present Government is in the argument about the means of bringing inflation under control. We do not differ about the objectives or about the ends. We differ about how we can achieve a greater competitiveness, not concerning the objective of achieving just that. There are other ways of achieving the objective of competitiveness without bringing our great country to its knees. The bringing of our great country to its knees will be the result of present policies. 
In my opinion the greatest feature of this Budget is that it continues the stagnation policies of the last three and a half years. There has been an enormous increase in receipts- the taxation and other revenue which is extracted from the people for government. Those receipts are up by 15.4 per cent. At a time when inflation is expected to be running at the rate of 10 per cent, the increase in government expenditure is only 9.1 per cent. So we have money coming to the government from the people increasing by 15.4 per cent, and we have money going from the Government to the people increasing by only 9. 1 per cent. That is an actual drop in real terms because of the 10 per cent inflation rate. There is only one way to describe that, that is, to say that it is contractionary. This Government is contracting the economy of this country at a time when it should be expanding it and creating more jobs. The Government is prolonging and deepening the intolerable recession which this country is suffering. That is why the Labor Party has included that point in the amendment which it has moved to Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ). 
Why is the Government doing so? The Government is doing so, firstly, because it sees some merit in there being a lower deficit. Let me admit immediately that at present- quite wrongly- there is a fetish in the business community in particular about lower Budget deficits. This is because the people of the business community have been shockingly and wrongly brainwashed on this subject by Liberal and National Country Party politicians. I admit that deficits cannot be limitless. They have to be financed by borrowings from the public unless the money supply is allowed to blow out with disastrous consequences for inflation. So there is a limit to the amount of deficit that one can allow. But the more the government has to borrow- we admit this also in relation to deficits- the more there is a danger that interest rates have to be increased. But interest rates do not necessarily have to be increased. I will come back to that in a moment. What I am saying is that the Labor Party realises that deficits cannot be limitless but the limit is far higher than has been allowed by the present Government. 
Let me take the point again that there has been too much of a fetish about deficits. Too many people have been ignorantly and wrongly hoodwinked on the subject. Business people now believe that if a government is not bringing down the deficit then it is not dinkum about inflation. So inflationary expectations grow and the belief becomes self-fulfilling. But it is quite wrong. That ignorance must be educated out of the community, particularly the business community. 
To help me make my point, let me illustrate my thesis from recent history. I go back to the Whitlam years of government. Contrary to the mythology, Australia did not have a deficit when inflation soared to its peak levels midway through 1974. International inflation was our main problem then, coupled with some wages decisions in the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which did more harm than good for workers. The country actually ran a domestic surplus of $21 lm in the financial year 1973-74. So, contrary to belief, it was midway through 1974 when inflation was at its peak. The deficit was not high at that time and there was indeed a surplus of $2 1 lm in that financial year 1973-74. The deficit emerged principally very late in 1974 and early in 1975. Yet, as it emerged, inflation caused by international reasons, started to come down from those peaks of mid 1 974. So let me repeat that there is no correlation between high inflation and large deficits. 
Let me go further. Since the advent of the Fraser Government, we have had three financial years when the deficit has been at its peak and far higher than during the Whitlam years. The Fraser Government deficits knocked the Whitlam Government deficits into a cocked hat. Yet, thankfully, during those Fraser years, there has been a reduction in inflation. This has been a continuation of that reduction which was commenced when my colleague  Mr Bill  Hayden, the honourable member for Oxley and Leader of the Opposition, was Treasurer of this nation. So for goodness' sake, where on earth is the link between deficits and inflation? Where is this mystical- I might almost say mysterious- link? When we look at that piece of recent history we see that there is no link. It should be recognised that there is no link in spite of this mythology which has been allowed to grow. More needs to be said on this subject because there is such a misconception about the monetary effects of government deficit spending. 
I believe, and indeed assert, that a domestic deficit of even $2 billion to $3 billion which implies an overall deficit of around $3 billion to $4 billion- one has to distinguish between the domestic deficit and the total deficit- can be consistent with responsible monetary management. It can lead to orderliness in the growth of our money supply with no dire consequences for interest rates. Let us take a monetary growth rate of, say, 10 per cent for 1979-80. This requires an expansion of M3 of $4.5 billion. On the basis of past evidence, a domestic deficit of $ 1 billion to $1.5 billion financed entirely by an increase in base money- that is, printing money- would be consistent with this target. But a deficit larger than this is feasible unless financial markets are saturated with government debt or government securities, and there is no evidence of this being so at the present time. If there is no saturation- as there is not at present- the extra money supply can be and will be soaked up by an increase in private holdings of government debt in line with the growth in financial asset portfolios. A 10 per cent growth in both portfolios and the money supply would enable an extra $1.6 billion deficit spending to be financed by bond sales. In short, a 10 per cent growth target in this monetary area is something which is quite responsible as a target and is consistent with a $2 billion to $3 billion domestic deficitwhich means a $3 billion to $4 billion total deficit without any adverse consequences. Lower target yields would of course yield correspondingly lower deficit figures. It is of vital importance to us as a nation to educate the community out of the present erroneous thinking on this subject of the deficit. 
If investors, in response to Liberal Party and National Country Party statements, perceive a $2 billion to $3 billion domestic deficit as adding to inflation, all hope of a satisfactory economic policy is lost. We are doomed to present Fraser Government stagnation policies which are adding to our unemployment on a seasonally adjusted basis from month to month. We need a more expansionary economic policy. We need it desperately. We need it not only because of the extra jobs and the better conditions, particularly for less well off Australians which such spending creates, but also because of the extra confidence it would engender in the community. Consumer confidence is still woefully low. People are not spending; they are saving. The savings ratios are increasing. This is because the residents of this country are naturally terrified about unemployment. We badly need to reduce this fear in people's minds. Only when we get a Labor government which is not hung up on the mythology of the deficit will people find that confidence to go out and to spend. People will recognise a party in government which is dinkum about unemployment as well as inflation, and people will go out and help to get the economy moving again. 
I want to make it clear that the Opposition realises that its more expansionary economic policies can be pursued only if it obtains the confidence of all sections of the communityincluding the trade union movement- to implement an incomes policy. I would have liked time to illustrate what I mean by an incomes policy but my time is coming to an end. The main point I am trying to make in this speech during the Budget debate is that there is an alternative to the contractionary Budget we have before us now in this Parliament. That alternative is greater expansion, so long as there is an incomes policy going with it so that we do not ricochet back into inflation. That more expansionary monetary and budgetary policy is only part of the package which the Labor Party is preparing in order to get this economy going and to reduce the level of unemployment. Other parts of the package include better manpower policies and industrial development policies. 
-The Opposition supports the objective of stimulating greater trade with developing countries, especially Asian countries and more especially the member countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations with which we hope to build closer relationships. But the Opposition is wary about giving unqualified support at short notice to the measures announced by the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony).  We need more time to assess some of them. Furthermore, as the Minister admits, some crucial decisions still have to be made by the Government concerning the giving of preferences. Until they are made there will be uncertainty in certain sectors of Australian industry. In those circumstances we of the Australian Labor Party can hardly give our unqualified support to these measures. 
Let me be more specific and state, first of all, the context in which we are discussing and assessing the statement. Australia is a great trading nation in a world in which, over the long term anyway, international trade has been increasing. We have only to look at the results of the increased trade to realise that it has caused an increase in the standard of living of the people of those trading nations. More than 100 nations actively participate in world trade and one-sixth of everything that is grown or manufactured in the world is traded internationally. The old British saying of export or die has been universally adopted. There is no way that we in Australia could possibly exclude ourselves from doing just that. No matter how great or powerful a nation may be it cannot isolate itself from what is going on in the international economic system. Australia is in an economic mess. This evening in the Budget debate we will again be discussing how that situation has come about. It is not my purpose now to lay the blame, although people will not have to be too imaginative to know that much of the blame rests with the present Government. 
As a nation, Australia is in a precarious economic position. The European Economic Community, with its many millions of people throughout Europe, is able to provide economies of scale which Australia, with a population of only 14 million, cannot enjoy. America, with millions of people, is able through the customs union to provide economies of scale which mean greater productivity and greater competitiveness. The industrious nation of Japan, with between 
SO and 60 million people, also is able to practise scale economies. Yet Australia, with a population of only 14 million, is unable in many sectors of industry to compete. Competition is the name of the game. In some instances we need to compete against imports. But, in the context of this statement concerning trade with developing countries, we need to ensure that we are developing export markets for Australia. 
We have to work our way out of the present slump. We must take advantage of every opportunity that arises. One of our advantages is our marginally lower cost of energy. Australia has supplies of natural gas and an abundance of coal. Australia also has the advantage of being able to provide skilled workers. But, as a nation with a relatively high standard of education, we are woefully short of skills due to the Government's inadequate manpower policy. Of particular relevance in looking at Australia 's advantages is the advantage of our proximity to the fastest growing part of the world- the developing countries of Asia. We have an advantage in being close to that sector of the world with its enormously large population. The standard of living is growing faster in some of the Asian countries than it is growing in any other part of the globe. That is the context in which we ought to consider the Minister's statement. 
The objective of seeking to increase our trade with our Asian neighbours in particular is a good one and one which the Opposition can support. In general, we have few complaints about the objectives set out in the statement but when it comes to the means of achieving them we have to be more particular. We have to be wary and we have to qualify our acceptance of the Government's measures because of the short time we have had to assess them. I quickly assert that we of the Opposition consider some of the measures to be extremely commendable, provided they are implemented in the spirit in which they have been announced, that is, provided they do not create sudden dislocation in Australian industries with a consequent threat to employment in Australia. 
Let me deal with the five measures in turn, if only briefly. The first change deals with the modification of procedures for varying preferences in respect of trade with developing countries. This is in our view a sensible measure in the spirit of the scheme to give preferences to developing countries to the point at which they are fully competitive in an item of trade. We believe that the new procedures, properly administered, will ensure that the encouragement to the developing countries is not cut off prematurely and at the same time that adequate protection is afforded to Australian producers. I should add that Australia has an adverse balance of trade with most of the developing countries- adverse to them and beneficial to us. We can increase our trade with them and at the same time benefit the exporters in this nation only if we are prepared to be more generous in respect of importing goods from them. 
At this stage I want to draw attention to what has become know in the short time since it was tabled as the Harries report- the report entitled Australia and the third world '. In relation to that particular matter, I think it is interesting to note that Professor Harries and his committee in that report, under the heading International Trade and Protection Policy, set out a few clauses on the subject of preferences. In clause 7 the Harries Committee stated: 
Australia should continue to participate in preference schemes for developing countries, provided the benefits offered by the various developed countries are roughly equivalent. 
One reason why the Opposition has to be wary of giving unqualified immediate support to these measures is that the Minister's statement does not tell us whether that particular recommendation has been adhered to. Did we in any way have negotiations with other developed countries to ensure that they too were bringing in measures roughly the same as this particular measure? I do not know of the consultations, if they have taken place. I am not now referring just to consultations with the developing countries which will benefit from these measures, but to consultations with other developed countries as recommended by the Harries Committee report. 
The second measure is that of British preferences. As the Minister said, Australia no longer has any obligation to preserve preference for British goods. By this action we are abolishing preference on 500 items of interest to developing countries. These preferences will eventually be phased out in the course of the Industries Assistance Commission reporting. Equally they could be phased out now. I am rather intrigued at the way in which the Minister has glossed over this point, except that without that extra time to assess the measure I must confess that I would rather it be done in the context of the IAC reporting. The Minister in his statement said: 
The Government considers that for the moment there are sound reasons not to proceed to immediate and total discontinuation of these preferences with Britain, given the special and valuable relationship existing between ourselves and Britain. 
Broadly, the Opposition would agree with that statement. But surely it is up to the Government to tell us what its good reasons are for taking this position. There are two considerations involved here: Firstly, how abolition would affect British industry; and, secondly, how it would affect Australia, especially so far as inflation is concerned. 
What worries us about waiting for particular IAC reports is that in certain areas we may wait for years and years for the IAC reports in those particular areas. To that extent it is not beneficial to developing countries for Australia not to have done something about abolishing the preferences with Great Britain. However, in other cases, it is very important that we should see the IAC reports first so that we know there will not be too much disruption to our own industry. The third measure in this package is increased frequency of visits to the Association of South East Asian Nations countries by trade officials. In the Opposition 's view this measure is overdue. When I talked about certain of the measures being commendable I was referring to this one in particular. We have said so often that trade relations with ASEAN are at an unacceptably low level. Overall relations with ASEAN are in disarray. They are unco-ordinated and on too many occasions in conflict. So this new initiative must not be allowed to exacerbate the situation. 
However, we are a bit concerned to note that it is the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  who has the particular carriage of negotiating in this area at this time. He has made an awful mess of our negotiations with the European Economic Community countries. I can only hope that he has learned from the mistakes he made in the way he went about his negotiations in Brussels and with the European countries and that he will not be confronting countries in the way he did in Europe. I hope he will be carrying out negotiations far more successfully with our ASEAN neighbours. The fourth measure is the establishment of a developing country showroom. This is an imaginative concept which should be of great value to the smaller developing countries. Similarly, the expansion of the scope of the developing country preference scheme is a natural and sensible evolutionary step. A great deal more effort needs to be put into our overall relations with ASEAN, but as a small step this is a worthwhile beginning. The fifth measure was the expansion of the system of tariff preferences. This is the area which I referred to earlier where more details are yet to be announced. We have just been given the promise in the Minister's statement that these details will be announced shortly. In the statement the Minister said: . . . details of improved access to the Australian market for certain imports from developing countries will be announced shortly. 
I find that statement highly unsatisfactory. Why on earth did this statement not await the negotiations so that we could be given details now of that particular announcement? The statement relates to 66 products and, in 20 cases, to products which are the subject of quotas. All the statement will do is to create enormous additional uncertainty in industry generally, not just in the area of those 66 products, because we do not know which products are involved. I hope that the Government will quickly announce which particular products are involved so that there is not uncertainty generally. Lastly, the reason for these measures is to increase trade. I have already stated how the Opposition believes in that increased trade. But when it comes to the developing countries, the Opposition believes that we should assert a hope that it will be the people of the countries themselves who will benefit from these measures. Too often it has been merely the trans-national companies, using the low wage employees of these countries, which take the profit without passing on the benefits to the people concerned. I hope that the Government, in its dealings with these nations, will say that one of the qualifications it will make in allowing this greater preference to developing nations will be that the benefits of the preference will be passed down the line to the people themselves. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bourchier)  adjourned. 
-Abuse is no substitute for argument and we have just heard one of the most miserable efforts that I have ever heard from anyone in this House in the 10 years that I have been a member of parliament, and it is a misfortune that such a miserable effort should have come from the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  of this country. It took him 13 of the 14 minutes that he was on his feet to come to the subject of this motion. This is a censure motion against the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  and it was not until the last minute that the  Deputy  Prime Minister got round to mentioning anything about what the Prime Minister has been doing in the whole of this unsavoury affair. This debate is about standards; not just Sinclair standards. Anybody can look at the Finnane report and come to their own judgment on it. 

 Government members interjecting- 

I wonder how many of the jackals on the other side of the House have taken the trouble - 
I withdraw that word and substitute the word 'noisy'. I wonder how many of the noisy members on the other side of this House have read this Finnane report yet and have come to their own conclusions? I admit that they have not yet had the opportunity to do so, but before they get locked in too far into the sorts of arguments that we have heard from this emotional claptrap from the  Deputy  Prime Minister of this country, I give them a warning: Just take a couple of hours to go through that report and see what is in it before you come to any emotional judgment. I said that this debate is about standards, and it is about the standard of the Prime Minister in particular. 

 -Mr Speaker, As I have said, this debate is about standards and I know that you are trying to apply some standards in this place. But I want to go through the very conflicting standards that have been applied by the Prime Minister. Firstly, as the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  points out to this Parliament and to the people, for two years since August 1977, this Prime Minister, by one means or another has prevented this unsavoury affair from being brought out into the open. He has also applied conflicting standards when it comes to what he has required of his Ministers in the matter of standing down when allegations have been made against them. Instead of our hearing from the  Deputy  Prime Minister all these innuendoes and all this discrediting of Finnane and of the Leader of the Opposition, why does he not answer the one main question put in this censure motion, and that is: Why is one standard applied to the Robinsons of this world and another standard applied to the Sinclairs of this world? Is anybody going to deny that there was a standing down of the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  when there was an inquiry into his affairs? There were not in any way similar grave allegations against him as have been made against the former Minister for Primary Industry. 
But what happened? The Minister for Finance stood down. I will give the dates in a moment as I go through this sordid affair. But time after time since August 1977 with over 30 questions asked in this House on the subject, with three censure motions- the terms of those censure motions are worth looking at- and with all those attempts on the part of the Opposition to raise these questions and properly to bring them out into the open, we have had nothing but a cover-up on the part of this Prime Minister and his team, and we have had nothing but double standards. I mentioned that this affair started as early as August 1977. It started with a Willesee report. I know that most honourable members have not yet read this Finnane report, but when they go through it and see the evidence unfold, I ask them to go back and have a look at the statements first of all brought out - 
-As I said, this debate is about standards and there is a Liberal standard - 
It is relevant now to go through what has happened to other Ministers of this Fraser Government. Firstly, we have already had drawn to our attention the Garland affairthe allegations of bribery which were not proved- and the man is now back in the Ministry. But let us just contemplate the fact that he stood down as soon as those allegations were made. They related to alleged bribery of a candidate during the 1975 general election. Why, indeed, did the same not happen in the case of the former Minister for Primary Industry? The next was the infamous Lynch affair. The Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  was forced to resign as Treasurer under threat of dismissal in the run-up to the 1977 general election. The matter related to the Victorian land scandal. As I said, he was forced to resign. He was not just suspended from the Ministry but forced to resign. Why is there one standard in that case and a very vastly different standard in the case of the Sinclair affair? I have already drawn attention to the infamous Robinson affair. It is infamous not because the Minister for Finance was in any way convicted or in any way shown to be wrongly treated- wrongly treated other than by the Prime Minister- but because he was suspended during the time of that McGregor Royal Commission whereas far graver charges are made against the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  These charges have come out time and time again in those 30 questions in this House, time and time again in those three censure motions and time and time again in  Bulletin  articles and elsewhere. Yet in no way were the same standards applied there. Of course the Withers affair is just one more to add to the list that we could use in these circumstances. 
Of course the reason for it was that obviously these were Liberal Ministers and they were not in the same crony condition of relationship with the Prime Minister as was and still is the right honourable member for New England. That is why this discriminatory treatment took place to this former National Country Party Minister and this is why we have to bring this out into the open in this censure debate as we are doing right now. I repeat: During the emotional 30 minutes of trying to bring into discredit the Finnane report and trying to bring into discredit the Leader of the Opposition he will not get us away from the central point in this debate and that is, that not only are dual standards being applied but also rotten standards are being applied in this Parliament by the present Prime Minister when he seeks to hush up the sorts of affairs we have been attempting to bring out into the open for over two years now. 
This very special crony arrangement between the Prime Minister and the right honourable member for New England means that in this case the Prime Minister is far more implicated in what has come out in the Finnane report than he would otherwise have been. I point out to Liberal and other members of this Parliament that as they go through that Finnane report they will find that it is a well argued judgment of these affairs and that the findings are quite convincing in their nature. I hope that Government members will contemplate just how implicated is the Prime Minister in all that has been written in that report. As I have said, the crucial question is: Why has there been this inconsistency? I believe it is also to do with another issue that is very much in the minds of people interested in politics in this country- the relationship within the coalition. We cannot divorce from the sort of standards that the Prime Minister has allowed what is going on with preselections in Queensland and in Victoria for the Senate ticket. 
We cannot divorce the fact that there is a Liberal group now seeking to get a candidate against the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  the honourable member for Gippsland. All of these matters and the coalition relationship are very much a part of the reason for the special cronyism and the special treatment- the discriminatory treatment- in favour of the former Minister for Primary Industry as opposed to the Minister for Finance and others. In the last few moments I have I would like to go through those many, many occasions when in this Parliament alone, matters have come before it which should have drawn to the attention of the Prime Minister how grave were the charges against the honourable member for New England. I refer first to the questions asked by the former Leader of the Opposition as long ago as 23 August 1 977 when he brought questions before this Parliament and the Prime Minister relating to pecuniary interests. 
Just how often have declarations been made by the former Minister for Primary Industry about his financial affairs? I think this Parliament is entitled to know. Perhaps the  speaker  following me can ask the Prime Minister the following questions so that this Parliament can be informed: How often have these declarations been made? To what extent have those declarations been accurate? Why is it that the sorts of grave matters that have come out in the Finnane report were not available to the Prime Minister if they were available? The question really is: Were they available? If the conclusions we draw are that that information was available to the Prime Minister, that make the charge of this censure motion even graver because it means that he would have had information in his possession which should have made him stand down the former Minister for Primary Industry a lot earlier than 2 o'clock this morning. We had the Whitlam adjournment debate on 4 October 1977; more information brought before this Parliament. 
Go back and look at the  Hansard  report of that debate. Any man in an independent position, concerned with the standards of this Parliament, and looking at that adjournment debate speech by the former Leader of the Opposition, must come to the conclusion that there were grave charges against the Minister for Primary Industry- still unproven, still having to go before the courts of law, but those charges should have demanded the suspension of that Minister until, in one way or another, they were proved or disproved. Then we have the various questions. I mentioned that there were 30 of them in this Parliament. They were from the present Leader of the Opposition, they have been from me and from the member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  concerning taxation affairs. We have not heard the answers. The fact that we have been unable to bring these grave matters out before this Parliament means that this nation does not yet know what have been the tax losses to ordinary people relating to this misappropriation because there has been this cover-up which we charge the Prime Minister with in the motion before the Parliament right now. 
There were further personal explanations from the Minister for Primary Industry, pushed further and further into giving more information in this House. On 6 June this year, the day before the last session of Parliament was due to terminate, there was the knowledge that the  Age  newspaper was about to publish articles about this Minister giving us more and more information. That flushed him out, brought him into this Parliament to tell us a little more. What he did tell us itself should have been enough to bring to the Prime Minister's attention that there were these grave charges hanging around which should have meant the suspension of the Minister for Primary Industry. In conclusion, I reiterate the main point of this debate. It is about standards. It is about the fact that there has been a cover-up; the fact that the Prime Minister has been heavily and deeply implicated in this cover-up since August 1 977; it is about dual standards. We can only assume that when the Deputy Prime Minister fails to defend the Prime Minister properly in this censure motion, he is reminded of what he had to say in Bundaberg about Liberals when he referred to them as 'boneheads' and having 'as many brains as all the skulls in the graveyard '. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
1 ) Does his Department (a) give any assistance to a body called the New South Wales Liberal Parry's Ethnic Council and (b) receive advice in relation to persons who take part in the activities of this Council. 
Has his attention been drawn to allegations of dissension and disruption within this Council. 
Has his attention also been drawn to a report that at a recent meeting Council members gave a standing ovation to a  Mr Lyenko  Urbanchich, against whom charges of Nazi collaboration and fascist-type activities have been made. 
Did Council members call for  Mr Urbanchich  's reinstatement to all his Council positions. 
Has he investigated these reports; if so, what is the result; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon the notice, on 26 September 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports that certain species of birds and other prohibited exports are alleged to have been smuggled out of Australia through Pine Gap. 
2 ) Has he checked these allegations. 
If so, what is the result of his investigation; if not, why not. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the fact that the Australian Road Transport Federation held its 1979 annual conference in Hong Kong. 
If so, is it a fact that many more organisations are holding conferences overseas, with those persons attending the conferences then claiming their expenses as a tax deduction. 
If the position is as stated, does this action create a burden for the rest of the taxpayers of this nation, who in effect, subsidise about SO per cent of the cost of these trips; if so, how will the Government relieve ordinary Australian taxpayers of this burden. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Why has the Government deferred a decision on important elements of the previously canvassed petrol marketing industry reform proposals? Incidentally, a government which has procrastinated on this issue - 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that one of the factors affecting the level of world trade and thus the level of economic activity and employment within Australia is the unstable world currency market. 
Has his attention been drawn to reports that Finance Ministers of 3 leading Western nations allegedly held summit talks in Paris on about 1 5 September 1 979 on the subject. 
If so, what was the nature of these talks. 
Is Australia taking any initiatives to improve the present instability. 
I have some bad news and some good news for the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  The bad news is that when amendments are being made by the Government at the last moment, I believe that the usual courtesies are for a copy of what is virtually a second reading speech to be delivered to the relevant Opposition spokesman in advance so that there is some warning of the matters that are to be debated. I could be at fault here because I am standing in at short notice for the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and he may have received such advance notice, but I do not think so. I think he would have passed it on to me if he had received it. I raise this matter not in anger but in the hope that if it is not a normal courtesy now it will become a normal courtesy in future and that such an explanation of detailed amendments will be delivered to the office of the relevant spokesman. 
The good news is that we too are enormously glad that these extensions are being made to the exemptions from sales tax. However, I do believe that the application to wigs has an element of self-interest in it as it applies to the Treasurer and the he should declare his interest in this matter. I wonder whether he is waiting for the report of the Bowen committee, which is looking at pecuniary interests of members of parliament, before he decides what form his declaration of self-interest should take. Nevertheless, I think something might be said about that at an appropriate occasion. The Opposition supports the amendments. We on this side of the chamber are glad that these extensions are being made. I know that the honourable member for Corio  (Mr 
Scholes) has a question or two to ask following my remarks. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, with your indulgence I will not direct myself to the motion for the third reading of the Patents Amendment (Patents Cooperation Treaty) Bill; I merely say that in view of the assurances of the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee),  there was no question on my part of calling for a division on the second reading. I thank him for those assurances and look forward to learning more about the terms of reference for the inquiry. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
Sitting suspended from 6.2 to 8 p.m. 
I second this motion of censure. I do not enter the debate with any relish, but as the shadow Minister responsible in this area I want to put it on record that I have bent over backwards to co-operate in this very sensitive sector. While I continue to have any responsibility for policy formulation in this area I shall continue to work for bipartisanship, for co-operation between the political parties, in order to fight a common foe, namely, those enemies of our society who peddle drugs to the weak, making huge profits on the way. That having been said, there is no excuse for mistakes on the part of those who are in positions of responsibility. In fact, the responsibility is so great that the Opposition would be failing in its duty if it did not highlight the shocking errors of judgment which have damaged an important area of social concern. In this competitive Westminster system of Government in which we operate we have a duty to draw attention to the errors to ensure to the greatest extent that we possibly can that those errors are not repeated. 
One of the cornerstones of this system that we operate is ministerial responsibility. How can there be proper accountability to the people through this Parliament unless this doctrine of ministerial responsibility prevails? This Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  is responsible for grave weaknesses of administration and, therefore, he must be censured. If anything other than the crude numbers game were played he would be censured, but the message of this debate is that whatever the result in terms of votes he will be censured for the grave weaknesses of the administration over which he has presided. 
Let me outline some of the reasons why this censure motion is so justified. I will not even draw attention to the reasons that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  has mentioned. There is a whole new set of reasons which I can outline. For instance, on 5 June- five months ago- the Opposition moved a motion in this House to discuss a matter of public importance on this very subject. That subject was the Fraser Government's incompetent handling of the Federal Narcotics Bureau. In fact I moved that particular motion. This should have been a warning to the Government, if there had been no other warning. But of course there had been other warnings, and I will come to that in a moment. If there had been no other warning, that matter of public importance which was moved in this House on S June should have been a sufficient warning to this Minister and to the Government to clear up this area of slack administration. 
The debate on 5 June arose out of what I have described as the Eric Robinson-type resignation of the Commissioner of the Federal Narcotics Bureau. One day he was out, resigning, and next day- or was it the day after- he was in again, kissing and making up. 
Yes, forgiven. That was the sort of thing that happened which gave rise to that debate on a matter of public importance. The episode was a bizarre one, to say the least. That episode has been repeated, and I suppose it will be repeated again. On that occasion the Opposition sought to persuade the Government to change its course. I quote my very words from page 2902 of  Hansard  of 5 June: 
The Opposition raises this subject in sorrow but it is its duty to seek to persuade the Government to change its course because its present direction is an exceedingly dangerous one. 
I was referring to the administration of the Federal Narcotics Bureau. What clearer message could there be? We wanted change. We do not live in a vacuum, even though a cloud of secrecy surrounds the work of such a law enforcement sector as the Federal Narcotics Bureau. Although I have received no confidential briefings on the subject generally, sufficient information was available to me and to other members of the Opposition to make us extremely uneasy and to move for the discussion of that matter of public importance. In that debate there was firstly reference to the law enforcement agency being penetrated by the very people it was expected to police. There was the related allegation that the Bureau had been infiltrated by organised crime. By all accounts there was a suspicion that a multi-million dollar drug ring was better equipped than the nation's Federal Narcotics Bureau. 
Secondly, we raised the matter or our nation's relationships with overseas narcotics agencies. With such grave charges on public record and with such suspicion relating to the inadequacies of the Bureau, how  could the  international agencies, with whom we deal in this sensitive area, have confidence in our nation's efforts to deal with what is essentially an international evil? I am referring to drug crime. How could these international agencies be expected to have any confidence whatsoever in us when the strong suspicion was, and frankly still is, that the drug underworld had access to the secret records and files of the Federal Narcotics Bureau. All of this is information that came out in this debate in this chamber on 5 June- five months ago. We said then, and I repeat it now, that Australia may well be cut off from receiving information ordinarily supplied by overseas police forces and international drug controlled policing programs. We still have this allegation of there being access to the Narcotics Bureau computer hanging over our heads. The access enabled- it may still do sodrug criminals to keep one step ahead of the police authority. 
These were the harsh facts that the Australian Labor Party drew to the attention of this Parliament on 5 June. Those facts were not properly answered and the Government failed to face up realistically to that problem at that time. This inept Administration confirmed that it would go along for a further five months with the fiction with which it was surrounded at that time. For three and a half years before that time, nothing was done to ensure that there was proper drug administration in this country. We have suffered for a long time. Even in those last five months since that debate very little has been done. 
Before moving on let me remind the House of the details of the most serious allegations which were abroad then and which have still not been properly answered. On Friday, 1 June the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs- this Minister under censure in this debate todayannounced that the New Zealand couple, Isabel and Douglas Wilson, had passed information to the Queensland Police in June 1978, a year earlier- nearly 18 months ago now- that an unnamed Narcotics Bureau officer had been involved in giving information to drug traffickers. The Minister's response to this most serious allegation was to set up an investigation of police officers from the Commonwealth and from some State police forces. The subsequent resignation of the head of the Bureau,  Mr Bates,  the Minister's frantic attempts to have  Mr Bates  withdraw his resignation and the touch of farce to the whole affair when  Mr Bates  withdrew his resignation all contribute to this being a matter of public notoriety. 
Early in June the Opposition charged that the whole matter had been handled ineptly and incompetently. Five months later that charge still stands. Five months ago I substantiated the charges by giving further details, and I repeat those details here: Two people are dead. Those were and are the most recent deaths known to me. 
A lot are missing, as the honourable member for Hunter says. There are charges that related to the drug ring. There have been five deaths in recent years. In relation to the two deaths that I have just referred to, the belief stated in this Parliament- it is not denied by anyone as far as I am aware- is that the Victoria Police Force not only leaked the intitial disclosures to the Melbourne  Sun  but also claimed that the Narcotics Bureau had sat on allegations made by the Wilsons for a year without conducting proper investigations. It also charged that the Bureau's data on the people at the top of the drug distribution tree is seriously defective. Those were charges which came out in this Parliament five months ago. What was the Government's response to all those charges that were being made? It only set up that unsatisfactory police inquiry, which apparently is still sitting. That police inquiry includes a representative of the Victoria Police Force. In effect, we have Victorian police as prosecutors and as judge and jury on that inquiry which was set up to look at those charges at that time. 
The story becomes even more bizarre when we read recent reports in a number of newspapers. I have here a quotation from the  Australian  of 2 October 1979 which states, in effect, that  Mr Harvey  Bates himself was claiming that the inquiry into the Narcotics Bureau was taking too long. What sort of Administration is it that allows the head of the Narcotics Bureau, which is supposed to be working in secrecy, even to pass comments on an inquiry which is set up to look into that same Bureau? That is the sort of sloppy administration that we are censuring in this debate today. Did not the Minister claim in the House last night that the Federal Narcotics Bureau did not like publicity? How can he reconcile that claim with the report that I have just referred to in the newspaper of 2 October? Why should the head of the Federal Narcotics Bureau be getting publicity on the matter of whether the report of the inquiry is running late? 
Whilst on this subject of recent newspaper reports and just to build up this picture of inept administration, which after all has given rise to this censure debate, let me draw attention to the equally extraordinary recent story about the leaking of information- accurate information as we learnt yesterday from the statement from the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)concerning  the take-over by Compol- the Commonwealth Police-of the Federal Narcotics Bureau. I refer to the  Canberra Times  of 27 October and to the article headed, 'Alleged leak to be investigated '. The article states: 
The Commissioner of the Australian Federal Police,  Sir Colin  Woods, has launched an investigation into the alleged leak of a confidential Commonwealth Police document about the Federal Narcotics Bureau. 
The article goes on to state: 
Specifically, he had asked it- 
That is his PII division, the police internal investigations division- to inquire into a statement by journalist Geoff Duncan on Thursday night's ABC program 'PM' that he had received a report from a senior officer of the . . . Police- 
It was to the effect, as  Mr Duncan  said: 
. that the report was a 'point-by-point' castigation of the Narcotics Bureau's mode of operation. 
Once again we get  Mr Harvey  Bates responding to that. The same article goes on to say: 
The head of the Narcotics Bureau,  Mr Harvey  Bates, was quoted on last night's  ABC  'PM' program as rejecting the allegations, describing them as inaccurate and in many cases totally false. 
Surely it is now seen that what was stated in that report is absolutely correct. Yet as recently as 27 October we have the head of the Narcotics Bureau going public on a matter like that. What sort of confidence can the people of this country have in our drug enforcement administration when this sort of thing is going on? It is not something that is years old; it has been going on in the last couple of weeks. Who is responsible? Under our system of ministerial responsibility, of course, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, who is the subject of this censure debate in the Parliament today is responsible. That is why the Opposition is being responsible and moving this censure motion. But the ramifications of these affairs extend well beyond the points I have made to date. 
I have referred already to the debate five months ago, roughly at the same time as  Mr Harvey  Bates' resignation. I refer now to a Bill which passed through this Parliament about that time. It extended the powers of telephone tapping to that same Federal Narcotics Bureau. At a time when we on this side of the House, with lesser information, were uneasy about such powers going to such a Bureau, how much more uneasy should this Minister have been at that time? Yet he defended it in the sort of closed circumstances of a legislation committee. He defended those extra telephone-tapping powers for the Federal Narcotics Bureau in that Customs Amendment Bill in May 1 979 at the same time as this uneasiness was being raised in this House. Not only the Minister should be censured; all Government members should be censured. I have only a few seconds left to draw attention to the fact that five years ago the then Labor Government sought to bring into this House an Australia Police Bill which would have done just what is being done now belatedlybring the Narcotics Bureau and the other police agencies under one roof. 
-The purpose of the Patents Amendment (Patent Cooperation Treaty) Bill is to amend the Patents Act to provide conformity with the Patent Cooperation Treaty. The consequence of this will be to permit Australian accession to the Treaty. This Patent Cooperation Treaty essentially is a mechanism for rationalising procedural features of the patent system of member countries through mutual co-operation. As such it has the potential- I emphasise the word 'potential'- to assist Australian inventors to obtain increased protection in other countries. The development of the Patent Cooperation Treaty system began in 1966 when the United States of America suggested that a study be conducted by what is now known as the World Intellectual Property Organisation, to determine if some steps could be taken to reduce the duplication of search effort for applications filed in a number of foreign countries. 
Those who have visited Geneva recently- I suppose that might include honourable members who have just spoken at length about their recent trip to that part of the world- will know that the World Intellectual Property Organisation has one of the most extraordinary buildings in Europe. The Organisation has spent millions of dollars on the building. I only hope that there will be a good return from it. The Organisation has spent thousands of dollars on transplanting a tree outside the building. As I say, I hope that the building itself will provide for a viable operation and that it has not been paid for out of subscriptions from member countries like Australia. After a number of drafts of the Treaty were published, the Patent Cooperation Treaty in its present form was concluded and signed in June 1970 by 20 countries, and subsequently signed by another 15 countries. It is noteworthy that Australia did not sign the Treaty at that time. 
The Patent Cooperation Treaty commenced operation on 1 June 1978 for the states which had deposited their instrument of ratification of, or accession to, the treaty. The Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  argued in his second reading speech when introducing this Bill that our accession to the Patent Cooperation Treaty would be of significant benefit to Australian industry. However, in doing so, he based his case on two major assertions. I want to list these assertions and use the Ministers 's words because I believe the assertions are questionable. He said:   the effectiveness of a patent system is in no way dependent upon the territorial origin of an invention or the nationality of a patentee and that those factors are essentially irrelevant to the operation  of a  patent system. 
That is the first assertion which, I think is questionable. The second assertion from his second reading speech states:   the motivation provided by the economic rewards obtainable from a commercial monopoly makes the patent system, in principle at least, the most effective incentive devised to date for the exploitation of new technology by industry. 
I go no further than to say that these assertions are questionable and I want to develop that argument. The Opposition questions, as I say, both of those points that have been made. Therefore, if our questioning is correct, the benefits of the Treaty are likely to be more imaginary than real given current circumstances and policies. However, the Opposition is not going to oppose the Bill because we question those assertions. We are not going to oppose it outright for a couple of related reasons. Before I get on to my questioning I will list those reasons, Firstly, there is our belief, as I shall explain shortly, that the disadvantages associated with our accession should be handled by other positive measures. They would not be resolved simply by rejection of the Treaty. Secondly, we are not opposing this because we have taken into account the Minister's foreshadowing, in his second reading speech to which I have drawn attention, of a review of the Australian patents system. We are informed that this review, to be performed by the Industrial Property Advisory Committee, will be oriented towards improving the patent system's practical effectiveness rather than the mere structure of its legislative framework. The Minister seems to accept the growing view put by, among others, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation which has stated: 
Perhaps it is because the patent system is such a venerable institution with such a wide international acceptance, that it is commonly assumed to operate in this way. But its underlying assumptions and alleged benefits are open to serious question, particularly in small nations like Australia. 
It is acknowledged that most patents issued in Australia are 'bad' in the sense that the scope of monopoly created is too wide and the cost of challenging a bad patent, once issued, is too frightening. However, while this review has potential, the Opposition is concerned that the arguments contained in the Minister's speech will unduly restrict the scope of the inquiry. Thus, it must be emphasised that our support for accession to the Treaty is qualified in several major respects. To make this explicit, I intend to move on behalf of the Opposition an amendment to the motion for the second reading which recognises that the benefits of the Patent Cooperation Treaty will materialise only if the Government acknowledges the broader issues, which I am about to develop, and abandons the present attitudes displayed in the Minister's speech. 
Let us examine more closely what I believe to be the two unacceptable assertions made in the Minister's speech which are crucial to his optimistic conclusions. Firstly, there is his view that the effectiveness of a patent system is independent of the nationality of the patentee. This view, I believe, ignores a very considerable body of opinion within the international community that patents have been used in the past to control imports and exports and to control the production of subsidiaries. Since  Mr Speaker  had his trip to France, the European Parliament and other places, I have been very glad to represent this Parliament at not only a debate on the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development at the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, to which I was accompanied by the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde),  but also at a seminar in Geneva run by the Interparliamentary Union, a seminar on the environment. So, on behalf of this Parliament, I was able to be in Geneva just recently. I visited not only the building to which I have just referred, owned by the World Intellectual Property Organisation, but also the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development organisation and talked to people in UNCTAD interested in the very subject of the transference of technology between nations. This is where the challenge to the old system arose originally. 
The international patents system, justified as an instrument to encourage creative activity, has occasionally been singularly unsuccessful in facilitating the transfer of technology to host countries. It has been found, for example, that the majority of patents registered in the developing countries are not exploited. Thus patents are registered which not only entitle their holders to produce the patented product directly or to license it to a third party, but also give the exclusive right to import the product into the country in which the patent is registered. This gives international corporations the possibility of controlling certain markets without having to make direct investments in the country concerned. This situation can result in frustration of the task of imitating, assimilating and adapting technology to that country. I believe that in this day and age, when we are interested in building up developing countries, we have to look at this subject, limited in interest though it may be, of the international movement of technology with much more seriousness than we have hitherto in this Parliament. 
Also, the system, by enabling restrictions to be placed on the licences to use patents, has resulted in some cases in restrictions being placed on the number of goods which can be produced, the numbers which can be exported and the destination of any exports. That these possibilities exist has been acknowledged by, for example, the OECD, which has incorporated guidelines covering technology transfer in its 'Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises', and UNCTAD, which is still in the process of drafting an international code of conduct on the transfer of technology, that same organisation to which I just referred. I spoke about my visiting the relevant officers in that organisation. The Minister's claim, I believe, ignores the informed views coming from these areas. 
But we do not have to go outside Australia for strong arguments about the dangers inherent in a patents system which ignores possible abuses by foreign patent holders. The Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment, in its report on 'Industrial Research and Development in Australia' dated May this year, has provided what I believe to be cogent and good arguments against the views which seem to be those of the Minister, if we deduce correctly from his second reading speech. The Committee's arguments are particularly relevant when considered against the background that, firstly, Australia is a net importer of technology. For instance, in 1974-75 payments for royalties and copyrights exceeded $75m whereas receipts amounted to  only $9m. Secondly, as the Minister himself admitted, over 90 per cent of patents registered in Australia annually are granted to overseas patentees- 10,000 out of 1 1,000 in 1978. That is a very sad situation. I want to repeat those figures: Of the 11,000 patents granted in 1978, 10,000 were granted to people overseas. I have already shown that I admire the work of the Senate Standing Committee in its report on this subject. I want now to quote from the Committee. It stated: 
Much intellectual property covering new technology useful to Australia is privately owned by big national and multinational corporations. These naturally seek to limit, by patent licensing and other means, the use made of it by competitors. 
The Committee further stated:   . .. although a subsidiary may buy technology from its parent, the amount paid may not always relate to the intrinsic value of the technology. In some instances ... an unwarrantedly high price may be paid as a device for transferring capital, and /or reducing company taxes. 
The Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment also quoted from a paper by Professor Brian Johns, the Director of the Government's Bureau of Industry Economics, when he argued that it is: 
. important to examine the conditions attached to contracts and arrangements for the import of technology. In many instances, these conditions include limitations on the exports which can be made by the local subsidiary of the licensee. 
The Senate Committee recognised that licensing can produce problems for countries like Australia. The Committee listed that attempts can be made by licensors:   . . to fix prices at which the licensee can sell the licensed products or goods made with a licensed process; 
. to impose tying clauses forcing licensees to purchase from the licensor unpatented raw materials that are freely available elsewhere;  to oblige the licensee to acquire certain technology, already freely available in the recipient country, as part of the larger package;  to require a licensee to use trade marks of the licensor under conditions that do not enhance the licensee's chances of succeeding in the local market;  to insulate the Licensee from reasonable export markets; 
And the last of these limitations-   to charge a royalty, or otherwise provide for remuneration to the licensor, that is unreasonably high in the circumstances. 
As a result of these possibilities, the Senate Committee argued in its report that: 
It cannot be assumed that Australia is immune from the practices, which amount to restrictive trade practices in the broad sense of the term. 
The Committee concluded that: 
It may be that consideration should also be given to problems attendant upon foreign patents and licences with application of standards similar to those existing in the internal trade practices legislation. 
In another section of its report, the Committee commented on issues and problems relating to the patent system itself. It argued that legislation favouring the inventive citizen:   . . may be justified in order to stimulate domestic industrial innovation. However, it does not necessarily follow that it is also in the national interest to favour inventive, technology-exporting countries by extending monopoly rights to them. 
The Committee also pointed out that: 
It is salutary to remember that the introduction of patent laws and the participation of countries in international patent agreements have a history of being determined by self-interest and nationalism. The USA did not put foreign and local applicants for patents on an equal footing until the end of the 19th Century, by which time its position as an industrial nation was assured. The British Patents Act was altered between the two World Wars to prevent patenting of chemical compounds. This was a deliberate effort to reduce the dominance of German technology in this field. Japan and Italy adopted similar policies for the same reason. The USSR did not join the International Patents Convention until it had technology to sell. 
What I am stating categorically in supporting these attitudes in this Senate Committee report is that Australians have too often been too naive in areas such as this. We are an importer of technology. We are paying a high price for that technology. We need to display more nationalism in our attitudes to questions such as these which I am raising. 
-Of course nationalism affects the market. It affects jobs and the creation of jobs in this country. If the honourable member had been listening to the points that I have quoted from the Senate Committee report he would have noted all the restrictions that are put on job creation through Australia's being a little bit too naive in this sector. All of these considerations should lay to rest once and for all the Minister's apparent view- and I am only taking this view from the comments in his second reading speech- that the effectiveness of our patent system is independent of the nationality of the patentee. They lead us to the conclusion that the Australian Government should be actively taking steps to examine and to develop legislation in relation to the international relevance of present patent laws and agreements to Australian industrial research and development and the importation of technology. Australia has to be on the side of the developing countries in so much of what is going on in the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development consultations when considering this subject. 
The second major assertion made by the Minister- and I remind the House of it as I have already stated it- was that the patent system potentially is the most effective system devised to encourage the exploitation of new technology by industry. Once again I believe that we need not go past the Senate Standing Committee when considering this issue, although we could look at the views expressed in the reports of the Australian Science and Technology Council, ASTEC, and the Crawford study group on the sort of action necessary to resuscitate indigenous IR and D activity in Australia. All these committees argue in one voice that the cause of Australia relying very heavily on overseas technology is the lack of funds for indigenous industrial research and development- not on an imperfect patent system. It has been pointed out that Australia's overall commitment of resources to research and development puts it in the middle rank when compared with other countries and that a high proportion of Australian research is either provided for by the Government or is basic research rather than applied research and development. 
There are very strong grounds for believing that IR and D activities might not attract the degree of funding warranted if financing such activities were determined by private capital markets alone. For example, industrial research and development may give rise to significant economic benefits extending beyond those accruing directly to firms and individuals undertaking IR and D. All potential applications of particular IR and D activities cannot necessarily be anticipated or patented by the originators of new products and processes. Also, the risk that particular IR and O activities will not yield an economic return may be high from the viewpoint of individual businesses and investors whereas the risk to the community at large that resources devoted to IR and D will not yield an overall economic return may be substantially lower. 
Both the Crawford study group and the Senate Standing Committee generally concluded that the task of achieving a turnaround in industrial research and development activity in Australia is substantial and that additional resources should be applied to this area. The Crawford study group considered that there is also a problem associated with the financing of firms adopting new technology. For reasons I have noted earlier in this speech, private financial institutions can be reluctant to provide finance for the introduction or development of new technology or innovations, particularly when the commercial viability is unknown or still doubtful. Johns, 
Dunlop and Lamb found that great difficulty is experienced by recently established and fast growing small firms in obtaining medium and long term finance to develop new products and processes. 
In proposing that an innovation authority be established the study group envisaged that such a body would have, in addition to its other functions, a role similar to the United Kingdom National Research and Development Corporation, the NRDC. In addition, while focusing on this point, it has been pointed out by the Senate Standing Committee that the short and medium term financial assistance offered by government under the industrial research incentives scheme was, and I believe still is, clearly deficient. For example, the Committee pointed out that the average project grant for a company after tax during the 1977-78 year was in the vicinity of $2,500. Whilst the figures for last year and this year will be higher, those figures are unlikely to be sufficient to overturn the Senate Committee's view that: 
. such low levels of grants lead to a frittering away of public money without having an appreciable effect on the quality of the nation 's technology. 
The Committee went on to recommend that the Government: 
. establish policies designed to remove disincentives from, and give positive encouragement to, the systematic commercial adoption of research results. 
The arguments I have put forward against the Minister's two assertions provide, I believe, powerful reasons why this House should reject the optimistic conclusions in the second reading speech. Only if this is done is it likely that Australia will give sufficient scope to the review of the patent system. Only then will the review be a true response to the Senate Standing Committee 's call in its report when it said: 
Australia's present patent system may well be acting against the country's best interests. Once again absence of any clear policy or plan for national industrial development makes it very difficult to know where our best interests may lie. Even so, a review of our patent system in the light of the situation with respect to IR&amp;D is clearly indicated. The Committee accordingly recommends that the Minister for Productivity undertake an examination of both the national and international relevance of present patent laws and agreements to Australian IR&amp;D and the importation of technology. 
Only when the dimensions I have raised are recognised will the Government be in the position to devise policies which truly extract the potential benefits for Australia from the Patent Cooperation Treaty. We of the Opposition give notice that we are prepared to support the Treaty only if the conditions contained in our amendment to the motion for the second reading of the 
Bill are given much attention. We cannot put qualifications on the Bill's going through as we do not have the numbers to do so, but we can use the time of the Parliament in debating this treaty to draw attention to the way in which the administration of patents and the legislation relating to patents can so properly stimulate research and development activities in our community and thus so properly be of enormous assistance to job creation. 
If what we are saying is not agreed to, if the matters we have set down are not met and the review of the patent system produces insufficient reform, the Opposition will be forced to the view that it would be better for Australia to stay well out of international patent agreements like the PCT until such time as a more enlightened and realistic government comes to power in Canberra, a government prepared to adopt the necessary policies. In view of the points I have made, on behalf of the Opposition I shall now move the amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. I am pleased to note that the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  will second the amendment. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, this House calls upon the Government to take the steps necessary to develop complementary legislation aimed at achieving the potential benefits to Australia of accession to the Patents Cooperation Treaty, including measures which would- 
increase significantly indigenous industrial research and development activity in Australia, and 
prohibit restrictive practices related to patents and licences, as recommended by, among others, the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment in its report on 'Industrial Research and Development in Australia . 
I am very happy to move that amendment on behalf of the Opposition. 
-As it has been a little while since the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Amendment Bill was introduced to the House, I remind the House that the purpose of the Bill is to amend the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act to provide certain new exemptions from sales tax, which new exemptions were announced either in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  or in the energy policy statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 27 June. The Bill falls into a couple of categories. The first category covers the new exemptions announced in the Budget. Those exemptions relate to goods for use by blind or deaf persons. They relate also to antiques and to player-piano rolls. 
As in the past, the Government's decision to exempt new aids for the blind and deaf is commendable and is thoroughly supported. The decision to abolish the 15 per cent  sales tax on  piano rolls is expected to save Australia's only piano roll manufacturer from extinction. Of course we have to support that as well. The Treasurer justified this measure by describing the particular company- there is only one company that falls into this category- as 'undertaking valuable work in preserving the works and playing styles of many great pianists'. This measure is estimated to be a cost to revenue of around $15,000 per year. The Opposition opposes none of these measures. I gather from what the piano roll manufacturer concerned has said that she will not be increasing employment opportunities. So this industry will not join these only two growth industries under the Fraser Liberal-National Country Party Government in Australia. I list those only two growth industries as massage parlours and Chinese restaurants. We cannot add even piano roll manufacturers to that rather impressive list. 
The second category of sales tax exemptions is of much greater importance to the Opposition. 
That category covers the exemptions relating to the Government's so-called energy policy. The remaining provisions in the Bill give effect to the sales tax area of that policy by exempting from sales tax goods used in the conversion of internal combustion engines to liquified petroleum gas or natural gas operation to non-oil burning domestic space heating appliances and to  various  solar energy appliances. At this point it is worth noting some of the differences between the measures announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 27 June and the Budget measures announced on 21 August. The Prime Minister announced the dropping of sales tax on kits used in vehicle conversion to liquified petroleum gas only. Yet this Bill extends this exemption, happily, also to compressed natural gas coversion kits and to conversion kits for all internal combustion engines. The Opposition welcomes these extensions but it does make us wonder just how well prepared and considered the Prime Minister's original policy announcement was. This is relevant because we said at the time that that energy statement was introduced in an enormous hurry. It would seem in many respects that that is so and that a lot of aspects of that so-called energy statement were hastily and ill prepared. 
There is another variation which the Opposition does not welcome between the Prime Minister's announcement of that date and this Bill. The variation has not been explained. Clearly, the Prime Minister announced the exemption from sales tax for solar appliances 'of all kinds'. Yet the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr MacKellar)  qualified this when introducing the Bill on behalf of the Treasurer, who is now at the Table by stating that the sales tax exemption would not apply to household air-conditioners. This excludes the advanced systems now available which use solar power for hot and cold airconditioning. We would like to ask the Government why this particular decision was taken. I hope that the appropriate Minister replying to this debate will give me an answer to that question. To make matters worse, it has been reported that when some manufacturers have sought clarification from the Taxation Office, they have found that the Prime Minister's original intention has been modified even further. 
It appears that they have been advised that where installations consisting of a number of separate components are not sold as a unit, sales tax exemption will not extend beyond the solar device which actually collects, absorbs or concentrates the solar rays. I am informed that the results of this very narrow interpretation will be that the simplest solar hot water systems are largely covered, but more complex systems which incorporate water heating, space heating and air-conditioning are discriminated against, although the energy savings they effect are likely to be far greater, particularly in industrial and commercial applications. Can the Treasurer advise the House of the reasons for the narrowing of the Prime Minister's intentions with respect to these other solar units? Can he confirm the Taxation Office's narrow interpretation of the definition of 'solar unit'? What action does the Treasurer propose to take to ensure that the more complex and often more efficient units are not discriminated against, they being the units which are relevant in the industrial context? 
The other curious aspect of the Prime Minister's energy policy statement in June is the decision announced in the Budget to supplement the measures with two income tax concessions relating to the conversion of oil-fired industrial equipment to other non-oil energy sources. Why were these proposals not included in the much heralded energy policy statement of the Prime Minister? Are these additional proposals a reaction to a hindsight realisation that the energy policy package contained no measure which encouraged energy conservation in the industrial and commercial sectors? Is that the explanation? The Opposition notes with disappointment that the Government has not been able to present to this House legislation which gives effect to these additional measures. The Treasurer announced on 25 October: 
These proposals are all matters of substance and considerable complexity which require the most careful attention. 
This does not disguise the haste with which these measures were put together before their public announcement. What this proposal really does is to indicate either the Government's cavalier attitude to this vital issue or its inability to design policies properly. Having said all this, I must repeat that the Opposition is not opposing the sales tax exemption measures contained in this Bill relating to energy conservation. They are all reasonable measures in themselves. The errors are ones of omission, not of commission. The most significant aspect of the Government's measures in respect of energy conservation is its failure to implement other vital energy conservation measures. 
I would like to devote a little attention to these errors of omission. Energy conservation means not only using less energy but also using energy more efficiently. Existing living standards can be preserved with a lower level of energy consumption. Since 1976 Australian oil policy has been dominated by questions relating to supply. Emphasis on supply means that society is likely to continue developing an economy and lifestyle dependent on an eroding, non-renewable resource base. This also means more pollution and a growing commitment of scarce capital to the energy industry. Despite the costs associated with increasing supply, the demand control option has been largely neglected. Although the decision to increase the price of crude oil is a measure which has been heralded as a conservation measure by this Fraser Government, overseas evidence indicates that for most petroleum products, price increases are ineffective in the intermediate term in achieving any significant reduction in petroleum demand. In Australia the concentration of private motor vehicle use in residential and recreational lifestyles and the difficulty of moving to alternative transport forms, means that the price elasticity of demand, particularly for gasolene, is likely to be very low. In other words, putting up the price will not necessarily reduce the demand, in the medium term anyway. If massive price increases are required before automobile demand is significantly affected, the question arises as to whether such price increases are worth the cost in the redistribution of wealth they cause. That redistribution is, of course, from the have-nots to the haves. In other words, the people who are being mostly hit by these cost measures, price increases, and petrol taxes are ordinary Australians on middle and lower incomes. Because over half of liquid fuel consumption in Australia is in the transportation sector- over 60 percent of this being for private motor vehicle consumptionconservation measures should be directed at this sector. Scope exists for conservation in the transport sector because energy costs have not previously been a significant factor in transport planning. The Australian Institution of Engineers believes that in time it is possible to save about 30 per cent of transport energy consumption without any serious inconvenience to transport users. 
I will list some of the possibilities for demand control: Firstly, mandatory fuel consumption standards on automobiles should be implemented. The United States of America has done this. Because of the restriction on time in this debate I will not go into as much detail as I originally intended. A second alternative is a selective tax on large cars, as proposed in the Carter energy plan and which exists already in Sweden. Thirdly, speed limits could be reduced, as has been done in the United States. We have a lot of evidence on that. Fourthly, emphasis should also be placed on energy conservation in traffic management, traffic planning and land use planning. Increased efficiency in energy use can also be brought about in the industrial sector of the economy. The industrial sector covering manufacturing and electricity generation accounts for approximately 60 per cent of Australia's energy consumption. The Australian Institution of Engineers believes that energy consumption in the manufacturing sector can be reduced by between 15 per cent and 25 per cent without loss of output, and that between 30 per cent and 50 per cent of oil presently used in industry can be replaced by coal and natural gas by 1990. So there is this alternative to the pricing policies of the Government, to the fuel taxes which the Government has imposed on the Australian people. If these savings are to be made, a national program for energy conservation in industry needs to be implemented now. More than just lip-service is needed. Among the bodies which have recommended such an active program is the Government's own National Energy Advisory Committee. It did this in its first report, dated September 1977. 1 repeat that time prevents me from reminding the House of the Committee's recommendations for immediate action, but they are on public record. 
I could go on and on with examples of hard advice to the Government from other committees, not just that one. It is sad that very little advice has been accepted and that the price mechanism solely is being relied upon, with enormous hardship to ordinary Australians. It is not satisfactory for the Government to come back and say that the measures it has announced, including some of these in the Bill, are sufficient. Clearly these measures are not sufficient. So, whilst not opposing this Bill, the Opposition takes this opportunity to call upon the Government once again to adopt a comprehensive package of conservation measures relating to the transportation, domestic and industrial sectors and not just use the price mechanism that is being used in this Bill. The price mechanism in some cases, of course, is excellent but where it puts up costs it is far from satisfactory. I repeat that the Opposition does not oppose this Bill. It reduces the sales tax on certain energy-using goods and that is excellent but we would like other measures supplementing those in this Bill. 
-Has the Minister for Industry and Commerce noted that the objections to the termination of the trading stock valuation adjustment are now more valid because of the increasing rate of inflation? Is he trying to persuade the Treasurer and the Government to reintroduce the TSVA in the light of more and more evidence coming forward that taxes will otherwise be paid out of illusory, inflationary book profits? If not, why not? Is consideration being given to introducing a limited form of TSVA at the same time as fully indexing personal income tax, which measures could be funded from the taxation revenue windfall created by the Fraser Government's petrol tax? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I take this opportunity to carry through what I foreshadowed when I spoke in the cognate debate on the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1979 with this Bill, namely, to move an amendment which I neglected to say earlier but which I say now, is totally along the lines recommended by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he was Leader of the Opposition. My amendment proposes the setting up of a standing committee for this Parliament to examine in greater detail customs duties and excise generally.  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, the right honourable member for Wannon, Leader of the Opposition as he then was in 1975, on a private members day, brought a proposal to this Parliament with some other proposals for other types of committee proposals along these lines. I will be very surprised if members on the Government side do not support this amendment on this occasion because, by not doing so, they will not be supporting their own leader. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that a Parliamentary Standing Committee on Tariffs and Excise should be established to examine each change in tariffs and excise following the gazettal of proposals or their being introduced into the Parliament on the one hand and before related Bills are introduced into the House on the other hand '. 
I wish that the Prime Minister were here and not at Nareen so that he could sit with me in supporting this amendment. 
I merely wish to take the opportunity- it may require a little indulgence from you,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  to explain that the Government has the numbers to push through not only its Bills but also the matters on the Notice Paper. Rather than spend time sitting in divisions where, in spite of what they say in debate, Government members will not support amendments which are drawn up in such a way that the Government members should support them, we believe it is better to spend the time in debating other measures on the Notice Paper. This explains why the Opposition did not call a division on the second reading of the Bill. However, during the second reading debate the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr),  who has now left the chamber, was against duties. Our second reading amendment condemned the Government for the 2 per cent duty impost. He should have been here to support the Opposition's amendment. Had he been here, I would have called for a division. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
1 ) Is one of the major problems with Australia 's balance of payments large outgoings on invisibles, a major proportion of which is insurance payments made overseas. 
Is there a need for re-insurance cover to be obtained overseas because of the foreign nature of the broker and finance companies concerned. 
3 ) Will the Government consider prohibiting initial cover being placed outside Australia unless the Australian market will not accommodate this business at competitive prices. 
-by leave-The Australian Labor Party Opposition has supported interscan ever since it was first mooted and announced. We believe that it is an excellent example of public enterprise in this case using private enterprise in partnership, to develop a major high technology project on which so much new employment in this country must be built. We believe in the public sector's taking initiatives such as this. Thank goodness a body such as the Australian Industry Development Corporation was in existence so that the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  and the officers around him could use that machinery in order to develop this idea. We think that this is an offsettype agreement using Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Pty Ltd and Hawker de Havilland Pry Ltd in the way that public enterprise should use such concepts. We recognise that there is a great need for the association with a major United States company- in this case Wilcox Electric Inc. has been chosen- to make an impact in the United States market which  InterScan  Australia Pty Ltd could not make without such an association. We do not want to neglect other markets just because we are initially using our initiatives in the United States market. I am sure that many officers of  InterScan  will be looking at the other areas of development in this regard. 
Generally speaking, the Australian Labor Party believes that new jobs must be created not only by our resources but also by our skills. To put it rather more explicitly, we are suggesting that such resources as marginally lower cost energy and the minerals we have are an excellent base on which to build manufacturing industry. But so are the skills in our community because of the greater amount of education we have compared with many of our competitors. This is an excellent example of a major high technology project which we hope will build new jobs. That high technology project, its research and development, has itself been built on the high standard of education which we have in this country. We hope that there will be more ideas and projects such as this. In the meantime, we wish 
InterScan  well. 
-Since coming to power four years ago the Fraser Government has presided over growing unemployment and falling job opportunities and now it is presiding over increasing inflation. Far too little has been done to revitalise Australian industry. Such revitalisation is essential. The days of the services sector being responsible for new jobs to offset the decline in the rural and manufacturing sectors are over. To state just one reason for this, microprocessing has ensured that those days are over. The manufacturing sector of the Australian economy must also contain some of the new jobs which are required if we are to return to anywhere near the unemployment levels that this country should have. It is not just the national Labor Opposition saying that this revitalisation is necessary, that the Government has done too little in this area.  Sir John  Crawford said this earlier this week to the annual general meeting of the Australian Industries Development Association. The  President  of the AIDA,  Mr A.  W. Hamer- a well known Liberal namesaid much the same thing in his annual report which was made public on the same day, last Monday, in Sydney. The week before  Mr Gordon  Jackson, the General Manager of the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd, said that too little had been done to bring about the changes to industry which are vital for our future economic health. He said: 
There still appears to be a reluctance on the part of the Government to grasp painful nettles and to firmly point manufacturing in the right direction. 
The week before that the views of an institute of engineers task force were published. A Victorian Chamber of Manufactures analysis asserted much the same beliefs as those that I have quoted from  Sir John  Crawford and  Mr Gordon  Jackson. The Institution of Engineers task force called upon the Government to exercise new initiatives to maintain and strengthen the manufacturing sector. The Victorian Chamber of Manufactures- a friend of the Minister for Industry and. Commerce  (Mr Lynch),  who is at the table- when commenting on industry policy in the 1979-80 Budget, stated: 
Post Crawford, the Commonwealth Government still does not have a comprehensive and clearly articulated industry policy strategy. By indicating agreement with areas of the (Crawford) Report but deferring decisions on a range of critical issues, the Government has preserved uncertainties about long term policy and will face increasing difficulties in making discussions on particular industries. 
For such views as these which are critical of the Government because of its lack of adequate policies and actions, I could have called for support from the Heavy Engineering Manufacturers Association annual report, on the published views of trade union leaders and the annual reports from the chairmen of industrial companies to the shareholders of those companies. I could have called on a host of other sources, but the ones I have called on are good enough to show that there is evidence for me to assert that this is not a partisan political point of view which I am putting to this Parliament, and through it to the people; it is established fact from independent sources. What I have to say is said, as I am sure the Minister will understand, in sorrow as well as in anger. I believe that it is absolutely vital that to the greatest extent possible we have bipartisan policies in this country. Those who take investment risks in their job creation and national wealth creation projects should be given as much certainty about the future as is possible by politicians such as us in this Parliament. I will continue to strive for as much bipartisan approach as is possible. In the light of all that independent evidence of a lack of policy, a lack of action on the part of this Government in this essential area of revitalising industry, how could the Opposition remain silent? 
Labor has an industry strategy. It is based on positive incentives for change. We need change- a lot of change- in industry, but to a large extent this change is not from one industry sector to another. It is change, or we could call it revitalisation, within each industry sectors- the sort of change which has been taking place in the whitegoods industry for instance. We must encourage those sectors which require the least tariff support. Only by doing those things that we do well will we get the necessary vital growth. We shall not achieve a higher standard of living if all our resources are tied up in the more highly protected areas. That having been said, let me make it clear, as the Crawford study group made it clear, that there are some sensitive, highly labour-intensive sectors of industry which require special policies. 'Industry specific policies' was the jargon, if I may call it that, that was used in the Crawford report. Let me name some of these sensitive sectors. The Government has not named any of them, let alone bring down industry specific policies for them as recommended by Crawford. If the Government cannot be positive and lay down policies and institute action which is required for this revitalisation, it is left to the Opposition to take the initiative. I name the automotive industry, the textiles and clothing industry and the footwear industry. These are three of such industries, but they by no means constitute an exhaustive list. 
These sectors are sensitive because of their great importance to regional employment and because of their vital importance in the training facilities that they give in providing skills that industry generally needs. We believe that these sensitive sectors require far better government machinery to assist them than we have at present. That is why we have announced our policy for the establishment of a textiles and clothing authority. I have recommended the setting up of a footwear and allied leather industry authority and an automotive industry authority. This is all under the umbrella of the IAC type of institution, which must continue. This would bring together within this authority the work now  being  carried out in a fragmented way by the Industries Assistance Commission, the quota review committee and the productivity groups within the Department of Productivity. These sensitive, highly labour-intensive sectors of industry require far better attention than the inadequate, fragmented government machinery which now exists in industry can give them. 
These authorities will not only monitor their respective sectors continuously. They will not only make recommendations to government for policy decision- making by government. They will not only have a more gentle, not abrupt, influence on the change which is necessary in order to bring us to greater competitiveness. They will not only help us to integrate our economies within those sectors with the economies of our trading partners- I refer in particular to our Asian neighbours. These authorities will also be on hand as the machinery to follow through in partnership with the private sector the decisionmaking that has already been arrived at by government. I repeat that it is far more satisfactory to have this sort of machinery for these sensitive areas than to have the present ad hoc approach which is a feature of the government policy at present, with a reference being sent to the IAC, with one set of commissioners working on that reference, with the stock quota committee undertaking valuable work for the continuation and the survival of that industry and with productivity groups working somewhere else. All of this needs to be brought together, and that is what our authorities under the umbrella of the IAC, will do. 
Having said something about those sensitive sectors, let me now return to the general thrust of the Labor Opposition's industry development policies, namely, bringing about change to concentrate on what we do well. Of course, we must build jobs on our mineral resources. It is not good enough to be a quarry for the rest of the world. We must upvalue our minerals. We must also build jobs on our marginally lower energy costs. New South Wales is doubling its power generation over the next five years. Let me put that in another way in order to make more impact on some members of the Parliament. I notice that Tasmania's Andrew Jones, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  is in the chamber seeking to interrupt me by interjection, but I will not allow him to do so. We need to put things in simple terms for him. In five years time in New South Wales there will be twice the power capacity which exists right now. To a large extent that is the result of the public enterprise of the New South Wales Labor Government. We want more of that. We want more jobs to be built on that lower cost power. Those jobs, if there are to be sufficient of them, will be in manufacturing or in the secondary sector. For example, they will be in exporting our energy in the form of alumina instead of bauxite and in the form of aluminium instead of alumina. There are many other examples of this type of new enterprise, but there is not enough government energy, not enough government enterprise right now to ensure that there is more of this new investment taking place, more new jobs being created on advantages which we have. I repeat that we want more policy and more action, to hasten the trends in that direction. To an extent that requires government initiative. In many cases it requires government twisting of the arm. We are not getting it from this Government at present. 
We also want many new jobs to be built on our skills. Our people have a relatively high standard of education. Certainly, it is higher than the general level of education of most of our neighbours. I believe that we should be building more jobs on those skills. Earlier in the day I was able to support the Minister for Productivity  (Mr 
Macphee) in his initiative concerning InterScan. But just as one swallow does not make a summer, one project such as InterScan is not enough. We want many more Interscans. We want much more in the way of active government policies in the research and development area. We want new jobs to be built on Australian research and development and on Australian initiative. Such an approach needs a revitalisation of policy. Last Monday  Sir John  Crawford acknowledged that his report had received careful consideration by government. However he said: 
But it is unfinished business. 
He went on to exhort his audience of industrialists with these words: 
There is great danger if apathy on the part of government - 
Let me stress that word 'apathy '; he used it and I support him-  to essential elements - 
That is, elements of his report-  is tolerated by undue passiveness on the part of industry. 
In other words, he was seeking to persuade his audience at this Australian Industries Development Association annual meeting- probably Liberals to a man with an odd national Country Party member thrown in- to put a pitchfork into the backside of this Government.  His  message was: 'They need to do a better job'. This is the Labor Opposition's view too. This is why we have raised this very important subject of better industry development policies in this Parliament today. Too much emphasis has been put on resource development. Complacency has been seen to be the answer. Of course, resource development is essential. One of the points I have made in this debate so far is that many of the new manufacturing industry jobs have to be based on resource development, but from the announcements that we have had from the Minister for Industry and Commerce and from the sorts of things that the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has said, we can only come to the conclusion that there is extraordinary complacency on the part of government at present and that it believes that the necessary number of jobs will be created by Australians continuing to be merely the quarry for the rest of the world. The Labor Opposition does not believe that that position is satisfactory. It believes that Australia needs better research and development policies, better export market development policies and better policies for training and retraining the workforce to build the skills of this nation. It is the job of the national government to be able to institute those policies. This Government is not carrying out that job satisfactorily. 
Debate interrupted. 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-The Opposition is not opposing either of these Bills. However, we have reservations about each of them which we will be incorporating in second reading amendments which I propose to move at a later stage. Let me first of all deal with Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1979 and state early in my speech that I will have some difficulty rivetting the attention of those people sitting on their tractors in the countryside and those ladies in their kitchens who may be listening to the broadcast of the national parliament because discussion on customs tariff legislation is not  heady  stuff. 
This Bill seeks to amend the Customs Tariff Act to exempt two more areas of imports from the application of the iniquitous 2 per cent revenue duty which was imposed by the Fraser Government from 1 July last on most duty free imports. Of course we have to support the fact that some areas are now being exempted from this iniquitous duty. The ones now chosen to be exempted include ships temporarily imported into Australia and goods used in the exploration for petroleum or the development of petroleum wells. 
This legislation opens up a debate on the 2 per cent duty, and it is against that duty in general that the Opposition is waging a war at this time. The 2 per cent' duty was introduced in a statement made on 24 May last, which was then dubbed the mini-Budget. It was merely a revenue raising measure. Indeed, it is incredible that not sufficient revenue was raised through the petrol taxes which the Fraser Government imposed on the Australian people. It had to go further and impose a duty of this sort. Initial exemptions included goods covered by rates bound by international trade agreements; crude and enriched petroleum oil; motor vehicle components; noncommercial goods such as outside packaging and re-imports; and government purchases. Later the first change was made when magazines and newspapers were added to the list of exemptions when the Government discovered that it had overlooked the Florence Agreement on the free flow of educational, scientific and cultural material. We in the Opposition argued, initially when the measure was first brought into this Parliament and indeed when the first of the changes was made subsequent to our being able to show that the Government was acting in contravention to the Florence Agreement, that this measure was living proof of the foolishness, deception and hypocrisy associated with the mini-Budget. The decision not to abolish the duty means these arguments are still valid today. 
Let me substantiate the charges that I have made. The measure is foolish, I assert, because it is both inflationary and makes many Australian products less competitive with imports and less viable in export markets. It adds to costs. The impact of the 2 per cent is being predominantly felt in the basic cost structure of our secondary industries. Only a few minutes ago the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  suggested that his Government had taken measures which have made Australian industries more competitive internationally. I suggest that what has happened to Australian industry in earlier years, and subsequently, has been mainly due to international forces, and has not had anything to do with the policies promulgated by this Government. One policy which has been instituted by this Government is the imposition of this 2 per cent duty, which has added to costs and helped to make our industries less competitive. Not only will this tax impost feed through to increased prices and higher inflation but the effective protection available to the final products of many of our manufacturing industries will be reduced as a consequence of the higher duty on inputs either fully imported or using imported components. I repeat that so much of what is the subject of the imposition of this duty is adding in to the costs of Australian products and making them less competitive with fully imported items and less competitive on export markets. 
The second charge I made was that the measure is deceptive. I believe this is so because it represents an inequitable form of indirect tax. It could almost be described as a form of turnover tax. This measure indicates a resurgence of attitude in Government thinking favouring the use of tariffs for revenue raising purposes. In addition to the present measure, last year a 12 te per cent ad valorem duty was imposed on goods subject to quotas for similar revenue raising reasons. 
The third charge I made was that the measure is hypocritical. I believe this is so because it is in conflict with the Government's posturing in bilateral and multilateral trade negotiations. It is all very well for suggestions to be made that there are differences of opinion on this side of the Parliament in relation to these matters. I reject those suggestions. What we can say is that when it comes to tariffs and posturing in the tariff policy area there are several schools of thought on the Government side. The Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  leads one school; the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  leads another school; and the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson)  leads a third school. That is where we find differences of opinion in this area- on the Government side. 
The continued imposition of the 2 per cent duty is in blatant disregard of article 37 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which involves a commitment to refrain from increasing customs duties. The imposition of this duty cannot be justified by article 19 of that Agreement because it cannot be excused on the ground that increased import competition was threatening to cause serious injury to domestic producers. As I have suggested, this measure is merely a revenue raising measure. 
In spite of these considerations the Government has decided to retain the 2 per cent duty. This decision follows a review of the operations and application of the duty following a large number of complaints about the measure and various calls for exemption from it. For example, the Confederation of Australian Industry, when it made submissions to the Government prior to the last Budget, urged the Government to abolish the duty. The directors of the Chemical Importers and Exporters Council of Australia also protested strongly about the duty, particularly as it affected raw materials imported into the country for reprocessing or for inclusion as a constituent in the products marketed for home consumption. They are only two examples. I could have mentioned many other examples of protests against the imposition of this duty. 
Apparently this storm of protest has forced the Cabinet to agree to an interdepartmental review of the duty, which commenced late in July, shortly after the measure commenced operation. The interdepartmental committee was to look at whether the arrangements should be continued in their present form without alteration and whether the duty should be abolished or certain exemption categories should be introduced. Because we do not have a Freedom of Information Act we have to rely on leaks to the Press. Press reports of the results of this review have indicated that it was recognised that a number of anomalies existed in respect of the application of the duty. It is also understood, however, that the interdepartmental committee report did not make any recommendations as to whether the duty should be abolished or whether certain exemptions should be introduced. All departments represented on the IDC are understood to have stated in the report that the question of whether such action should be taken was a political one which Cabinet itself should decide upon and, as such, they could not advise Cabinet what it should do. I assert that this was a thinly disguised admission by the members of that interdepartmental committee that normal economic policy criteria did not apply to this measure but if they did apply the committee would recommend that the measure be abolished; that it be terminated; that we should no longer have this 2 per cent duty. 
We also understand that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  tried to get Cabinet to abolish the 2 per cent duty just prior to the Budget. The Minister for Finance is sitting at the table. I do not know whether he will respond in this important debate. If he does, I would like him to confirm or deny what I have said about the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, who I understand is today in Darwin on Government business. He paid me the courtesy of letting me know about his absence from the House. Perhaps the Minister for Finance could tell us whether the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs tried to get the Cabinet to abolish the 2 per cent duty, just prior to the Budget and after the interdepartmental committee had reported, his reasons being the problems involved in administering the measure. If that was his reason and his attitude, I support him. It is believed that Cabinet rejected the Minister's proposal- the Minister for Finance could tell us for certain about that- and that it rejected his entreaty on the grounds that politically the Government could not abolish it after it had been in operation for little more than a month. I find that excuse for not taking the correct course unsatisfactory. 
There have been many other occasions when the Fraser Government has had no compunction about doing a U-turn and changing its direction overnight. I use as an example of that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  eating humble pie in this Parliament at about this time yesterday afternoon, when he had to admit that he had been rolled in Cabinet, rolled in his party room. No longer can he pursue all those good measures to close taxation loopholes, which are so wide that trucks were and are being driven through them, particularly in relation to trusts. Some $55m worth of Government revenue that was to have come from those who are better off in this community, from the haves of this world, is no longer to be collected because the Treasurer does not have the numbers in Cabinet and in the party room. So the U-turns are there, and we had an example yesterday. It is a pity that the U-turn was not able to be put into effect in relation to this measure and the abolition of the 2 per cent duty. The Government, so one hears from Press reports, did not wish once again to be charged with ad hockery and having on-again off-again policies. The Government already has that reputation, and one more example would not have made any difference. 
By not reversing this foolish measure, the Government is open to much more serious charges, which I have repeated. All that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs was able to say in his second reading speech on this Bill to those many businesses adversely affected by the continuation of this measure was that, whilst the Government appreciated that the 2 per cent revenue duty was affecting goods and areas of industry other than those to be exempted, it could not see its way clear to extend exemptions beyond the areas indicated. That gives little comfort to those who have had this impost placed upon them, those who are now bound to pay the duty and are the victims of this revenueraising measure. I repeat: As if it is not good enough for the Government to collect millions of dollars of extra tax from the people of this country through the petrol taxes that have been imposed on them, it now adds insult to injury by adding to the costs of manufacturing inputs by applying a 2 per cent duty. 
One also wonders just how the two exemptions the subject of this Bill were decided on. For those who were not here at the beginning of this debate, I repeat that the Opposition does not oppose this Bill because at least it brings about two exemptions to the impost. But how were they arrived at? If Press reports are correct and the IDC did not recommend specific goods deserving such exemption, how on earth did we come to these two exemptions? One wonders what influence companies associated with the two categories of goods had with the Government, and why this influence was greater than the influence of companies associated with other goods which failed to get exemption? What pork barrelling is going on? I wonder whether the Parliament will receive a proper report on this matter. The Government's decision fails to conceal the foolishness, the deception, and even the hypocrisy associated with the retention of this 2 per cent duty. It is for that reason that later I will move an amendment to this measure. 
As this is a cognate debate, I wish to refer to the other Bill before the House, the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 4) 1979. 1 am afraid that those who are listening on their tractors or in their kitchens will not find this any more riveting. The purpose of this Bill is also to enact tariff changes- changes which have been made by  Customs Tariffproposals Nos. 16 to 30, 1979, which have been introduced into this House at different times since April of this year. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill either. The changes largely conform with the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission and the Temporary Assistance Authority. Where Government decisions are at variance 'with the advice of the Commission or Authority, the changes either are being phased in more gradually than recommended or involve less severe changes than those recommended. As an advocate of change being non-abrupt- I do not know what the opposite to abrupt is- or as smooth as possible, I could not but support, where there are differences with the Authority and the Commission, those that have been chosen by Government. 
Let me outline a little more of this Bill as it is / some time since it was introduced into the House of Representatives. Of the 1 7 commodity groups affected by these proposals, one change was the result of trade negotiations with New Zealand; eight of the changes represent the complete acceptance of the IAC's advice; live changes involve a larger degree of acceptance of the IAC's recommendations; one continues present assistance levels while the Government considers a report from the IAC; and only two involve substantial rejection of IAC advice. I chose to do most of my research on the two matters which involve a certain amount of rejection of IAC advice. These two proposals relate to imports of orange juice, and bags and sacks. For example, on 29 March 1979, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and the then Minister for Primary Industry announced that the Government did not accept the Commission's view of substantially lowering assistance to the citrus industry. In explanation, all that the Minister said was this:  the Government had taken its decisions after very careful and protracted consideration of all the factors concerned, both domestic and international, bearing in mind the importance of maintaining a viable Australian citrus industry. The Government had taken into account and given full consideration to the many representations it had received. 
I do not wish to examine the precise changes or individual proposals in any more detail than this. What I wish to do is again to make my plea about the way in which the Government treats the Parliament on these matters and to show how the House is forced to consider tariff changes without proper parliamentary debate. The Parliament increasingly is being side-stepped or kept in the dark, making us all members of that mushroom club, concerning variations in the level of assistance to industry. It has occurred to me that the Minister for Finance, who is at the table, was a member of a more famous mushroom club. 
Not so? It happened before he got here. I now belong to a mushroom club because I am kept in the dark on many matters in the tariff area. 
I am fed on some of that fertiliser which could well be the subject of one of the tariff changes in the proposals that are before us. The procedures adopted by the Government in announcing and explaining decisions on advice from the Industries Assistance Commission and the Temporary Assistance Authority are inadequate. I have raised these matters in the House before, and I have hoped for some positive action from Ministers and from the Government generally. However, I have not received any positive response and, therefore, I will move, with the support of the Labor Party in Opposition, an amendment to the second reading. The amendment- and I direct this remark especially to the Government, back bench members who pay considerable lip service to the need to defend and extend the watchdog activities of the Parliament- would set up the necessary standing committee for us to look more closely at the excise and tariff matters than we do at present with the machinery and methods of debate which we employ in this chamber. 
I have placed on record several times the antiquated procedures which effectively prevent debate and consideration of individual tariff changes. In brief, when individual proposals are introduced, the Minister makes the shortest possible speech. Debate is then adjourned. The Opposition does not get a chance to talk at that stage and, indeed, it could not do so because it does not get any prior notice of what is going to come before the House. After the debate is adjourned, the item on the Notice Paper never conies up for debate again. At the end of each session, such as now, a tariff amendment Bill is introduced which formally amends the tariff schedules, with the Minister's second reading speech referring to the fact that the Bill is merely the formal enactment of changes which have been made long ago. 
This procedure has been in operation for over 15 years. The consequence of this procedure, which is also followed for excise changes, is that individual tariff and excise changes are never given the same scrutiny through full debate in the House as that given to other legislative changes, such as assistance given through bounties. In effect, the Parliament is presented with a fait accompli, and is expected to accept it. Not only is debate on each change virtually stifled but also the system encourages lazy and slipshod government. I will leave to the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown),  who will be the next  speaker  from the Opposition side in this debate, the job of substantiating the charge I have just made. He is one of the many able members on this side of the chamber and I am very glad that he will be seconding my amendment and giving the House an opportunity to learn why the changes should be made to the procedure. 
The time is long overdue for such a change so that decisions relating to varying levels of assistance in excise are better explained and debated and not just announced. We do not deny that it is the Government's right, indeed its prerogative, to make the final decision. What we do expect is full and candid disclosure by the Government of its decisions on the independent advice it receives, as well as some explanation of those decisions. With this in mind, I suggest that the most feasible way of achieving proper consideration is to set up a parliamentary standing committee to examine and report on each measure, as I mentioned earlier. This would have the dual effect of fostering proper scrutiny of government decisions and of compelling the Government to consider and explain its decisions more carefully. 
At this stage I indicate to the House the amendment that I will be moving to the motion for the second reading of the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 4) 1979. It reads: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that a Parliamentary Standing Committee on Tariffs and Excise should be established to examine each change in tariffs and excise following the gazettal of proposals or their being introduced into the Parliament on the one hand and before related Bills are introduced into the House on the other hand '. 
I conclude my speech by moving the following amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1979: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that the Government should be condemned for continuing to impose the 2 per cent ad valorem revenue customs duty on most goods imported duty free prior to 1 July because the duty- 
is inflationary and further erodes the competitiveness of Australian industry as the commodities subject to the duty are predominantly production inputs; 
2 ) is really a form of indirect taxation, and 
is in conflict with the Government's posturing in bilateral and multilateral trade negotiations '. 
-Again, with your indulgence,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I thank the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee),  who is at the table, for his remarks and promise to bring our amendment to the attention of the Leader of the House  (Mr Viner).  I hope that he will bring it to the attention of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  because I am sure that there will be a spark of recognition in the memory of the Prime Minister as the amendment is along the lines that he himself promoted, namely, that we should debate these matters in a committee setting so that we could look in greater detail at the particular proposals for customs duties and excise changes coming before this chamber. 
Whilst focusing on giving attention to such complicated proposals, I should mention that as so often happens, these proposals come before the House at a busy time when the Notice Paper is very full. The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  on the Government side sat through this debate. He was listed to speak but did not have the opportunity to do so because of the constraints of the time table. Therefore, it is not true to say that these matters get sufficient attention when debate comes before this chamber. The only way such attention could be given is if we set up a standing committee and work in a committee setting. I hope that point will be made also to the Leader of the House and the Prime Minister when the Minister for Productivity brings this matter to their attention. Because of his assurance and because sitting in a division would be merely taking time from the debate on a Bill which is still on the Notice Paper and due to be debated today, the Opposition did not call for a division. 
-by leave-I present the report of the Australian representatives to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development debate of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe held in Strasbourg on 9 October 1 979 and to the Inter-Parliamentary Union Seminar on Environment in Europe held in Geneva from 22 to 24 October 1979. I congratulate those people, including the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  and myself, who arranged the presentation of this report in record time. I also congratulate the honourable member for Moore and myself for not speaking to this report but leaving it to members to read and to digest. The report sets out the findings of the Seminar on Environment in Geneva. It contains a lot of valuable information on air and water pollution which I intend to bring to the attention of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. 
My question is also directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Did the Government announce as long ago as October 1977 that it would concentrate on giving preference in government purchasing to Australian-made goods? Is it a fact that this policy not only has been supported by the Labor Opposition but also has been endorsed by the Australian Manufacturing Council and by the Australian Science and Technology Council? Have those groups called for a more determined application of this policy, among other reasons, to stimulate the development of more sophisticated manufacturing methods? In view of all of this, what effects will the ratification of the multilateral trade negotiations code of conduct on government procurement have on this policy? What does the Government plan to do, particularly for small business, in order to carry out more effectively its promise to assist Australian manufacturing industry by means of government purchasing policies? 
I merely explain that because of the constraints of time the Opposition did not force a division on the second reading amendment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is it a fact that the Trade Practices Commission has requested the Murdoch group to delay for one month putting into effect the offer to the shareholders of the Herald and Weekly Times Ltd? Under what section of the Trade Practices Act has this request been made? What are the powers under that section? Does the request have any legal force? Is it a fact that the present Fraser Government altered- in this case watered down- provisions of the old Trade Practices Act, which provisions would undoubtedly have prevented the Murdoch takeover of the Herald and Weekly Times Ltd on the grounds that such a takeover would reduce competition and certainly would not result in public benefit? 
-The purpose of this Bill is to protect the collection of the duties associated with Customs Tariff Proposals Nos. 31 to 35, which have already been submitted to the House. This Bill, as I have suggested, protects those proposals against legal challenge pending the introduction of a Customs Tariff Amendment Bill in the next session of the Parliament. It is necessary for me to explain very briefly that the tariff decisions include, firstly, the Government's acceptance of the Industries Assistance Commission's advice contained in its report on furniture; secondly, the Government's rejection of the IAC's advice on protection for wines and spirits; and thirdly, changes to certain developing country duty rates following a limited review of the Australian system of tariff preferences for developing countries. 
Arising out of that explanation of what this Bill does, I want to deal briefly in this debate with two issues. The first is the Government's handling, some would say- I would assert mishandling- of the wine and brandy industry. The second is the inadequate procedures adopted by the Government in announcing and explaining decisions to the Parliament on advice from the IAC. 
If there had not been such pressure on debating time in this chamber I would have liked to speak in this debate about the Government's tariff policy generally, particularly as quite an amount of publicity has been given to the views of the present Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch).  I assert that he speaks with forked tongue. He has been saying one thing to businessmen in the community and another when he has to answer to some of the various forces in his own party in this Parliament. We have also noted the publicity given to the stated views in this area of  Mr John  Stone, the Secretary to the Treasury. Although the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  nods his head in apparent approval of all that  Mr John  Stone has said, and although there is much in what he has said of which I approve, I would have liked time to say something about the Opposition's attitude to those items of publicity. However, now is not the time. 
Let me talk about wines and spirits. The Government has been grandstanding over its decisions regarding customs duties on imported wines and spirits. In rejecting the IAC's advice that the majority of goods under reference should have their protective margins reduced to 25 per cent in the long term, the Minister bragged:  a reduction in protection at this time would hamper the effort being made by wine producers and grape growers to adjust their production to market requirements. 
Later he made a statement to this effect:  the Government has been concerned at the difficulties facing grape growers because of the importance to them of brandy distillation as an outlet for grapes. 
Whilst the Opposition strongly supports the decisions taken to protect the welfare of wine grape growers, and I understand and recognise your interest in this measure,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I assert that the Government has not gone far enough. What makes matters worse is that the Government is portraying this decision as a magnificent gesture to the industry. Relatively that is so, but absolutely it is not. It ignores completely the fact that the problems currently facing the industry are to a large degree attributable to the actions of this Government. In other words, having knocked the industry to its knees it is now trying to get some kudos or benefit out of seeking to bring it back onto one leg. 
In particular, in the 1978 Budget, as you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as the honourable member for Wakefield would remember so well, this Government raised the excise on Australian produced brandy from $10.21 a litre of alcohol to $18.75 a litre of alcohol- a terrible rise of 83.6 per cent. The marked decline in grape usage for brandy as well as the effect of the sales drop on Government revenues as a result of this impost is the reason why the Government has been forced to act in the way that the Ministers have acted. In addition to maintaining protection for the local industry, the Government has removed some of the excise it imposed in the previous year. But the reduction was only a small percentage. The excise was reduced by $2.75 to $ 1 6 a litre. A very large excise impost remains, as you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  well know and as your constituents are so often telling you. 
Not only is the Government to blame for much of the industry's current problems, but also an announcement in the Senate would seem to indicate that the Government is considering damaging the industry even further. I think it was as late as yesterday that the Government seemed to give notice that the tax free days of the wine industry are numbered. In making a statement on the Senate Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce report entitled 'Tax and the Wine and Grape Industries'  Senator Webster,  a Minister in the present Fraser Government, explicitly rejected one important recommendation of that Committee. In the report the Senate Committee recommended that a period of notice be given before a tax is imposed. In  Senator Webster's  statement, the Government rejected this, saying that the question of a wine tax was one which should be considered from year to year in the Budget context.  His  exact words were: 
Questions as to whether taxes should be imposed on the wine industry are matters which should be decided in the Budget context from dme to time. 
What a terrible thing it is that the Government did not take that opportunity to say categorically through that statement made by that Minister that there would be no tax on the wine industry. The Minister went on to say: 
In the last Budget, of course, no tax was imposed on wine. 
He said nothing about the next Budget. The Committee's report was tabled over two years ago- on 16 August 1977. Now, out of the blue, this unsatisfactory statement has been made. The fact that the Government has chosen to make this gratuitous announcement in this way must make us wonder about its motives. If it does signal that the Government intends to introduce a wine tax in next year's Budget, the former Minister for Primary Industry, the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  will have some explaining to do, as you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  would know because you have taken him to your electorate of Wakefield to face the angry- and understandably so- grape growers, wine producers and brandy producers. Last December the former Minister for Primary Industry gave an unequivocal assurance to a meeting of Riverland wine grape growers that there would be no wine tax. So much for that aspect of the Bill. 
Because I have agreed to take only 10 minutes of the half an hour speaking time which is allocated to me under the Standing Orders, I will speak only briefly about the tariff change procedures. Last week when another Customs Tariff Bill was being debated in this place, the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  was in Darwin. Because of his absence at that time, I will not be boring him tonight as much as I might be boring some of his officials who have to sit through these debates, when I again mention the inadequate procedures adopted by the Government in announcing and explaining decisions in this House on advice from the Industries Assistance Commission or the Temporary Assistance Authority. 
As I have yet to receive a positive reply from either the Minister or the Government I am compelled to raise the matter again. I intend to move a second reading amendment to challenge those members on the Government back bench who have paid considerable lip service to the need to defend and to extend the watchdog activities of this Parliament. The purpose of the amendment is in effect to bring about better procedures in this House. As much as I would like to call for a division, I will not do so because of the constraints of time. 
Instead of repeating the arguments which I put forward last week I can do no better than quote what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said of this subject in 1975 when he was Leader of the Opposition. On 10 April 1975, during a discussion on a matter of public importance in this House the then Leader of the Opposition, the present right honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said: 
I take this first opportunity to give what are personal views but at the same time views which I believe can advance the cause of this House of Representatives. 
He went on to say: 
The problem that we have is a problem in the House of Representatives. There has been a slow process of erosion of its authority and its status and we need to ask ourselves how this has occurred and why it has occurred. 
He went on to say: 
There is too much rush, not enough time for significant legislation, not enough time for major debates  . . There is not enough time for those who have a particular interest to give true and proper attention to reports of the Industries Assistance Commission. 
He went on to say: 
I believe also that there would be room for a special committee to examine Industries Assistance Commission reports to see that consistency and common sense are shown in the way in which the Commission is going about its business. With present procedures there is generally not adequate dme for these reports to be examined as we now go about our business. 
It can be seen that my ideas which are supported by my colleagues in the Australian Labor Party Opposition would appear to have the support of the Prime Minister. I again raise those ideas by moving: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the Bill, the House is of the opinion that a Parliamentary Standing Committee on Tariffs and Excise should be established to examine each change in tariffs and excise following the gazettal of proposals or their being introduced into the Parliament on the one hand and before related Bills are introduced into the House on the other hand '. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion ( by  Mr Ellicott)  agreed to: 
That the business of the day be called on. 

 Mr HURFORD (Adelaide)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  if I may have your indulgence, the Opposition understands the circumstances of the Government deciding that the House should rise by about S.30 this afternoon and that because of the censure motion the Opposition would not be allowed to discuss this matter of public importance. But we did want to show our sincerity in proposing this matter by being present in the House. In spite of the rather small time attitude of some back benchers who are attempting to interject, the fact is that the order of business set out on the blue sheet was departed from. The blue sheet is put out each sitting day and when a matter listed on that sheet is not to be dealt with in order it is normal courtesy for those who are involved to be informed. That did not happen this time. 
I want to thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for your courtesy in this matter. 
