-Thank you,  Mr President.  I am proud to be a member of this place. I, too, extend my congratulations to you,  Mr President,  on your elevation to the Presidency. I wish you well for the future and feel every confidence in you. I would like to congratulate  Senator Webster  on his election as  Chairman  of Committees. I congratulate the previous speakers whom I have heard make their maiden speeches. Their remarks have acted like a transfusion into the debate. Of course, by the time 1 5 transfusions have been put into anybody the situation can be quite dangerous. I hope that the Senate will be able to absorb us all and that we will have a contribution to make. I thank honourable senators, not only from my own Party but also from the other parties, for the way in which they have accepted us into the Senate and helped us. They have been most accommodating. I should like to thank also the wives of the more senior members of this chamber, who know the ropes, for the help that they have given. I extend thanks to the Clerks, the Usher and the Attendants, who have been most accommodating in sending us letters, giving us instruction and helping us around the corridors and lobbies. 
The Senate may be even more male chauvinist than is thought because, according to one of the books in the lobbies, the word 'Senate' comes from the Latin word 'senatus', which refers to a body of wise men. For the benefit of the four delightful lady senators perhaps we should translate it a bit more loosely and call it a body of wise persons. 
We are living in an historic time. The country is politically evenly divided and uneasy. The Parliament is nearly evenly divided in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. I should think that this would be a time for the Government to tread lightly. From the discussion that has taken place in this chamber it is obvious that there is room for both ends of the political spectrum and the middle to be heard. I hope that the Senate will ensure that no legislation is ever passed to upset that situation. Equally the Senate should be sure that it does not pass any harmful legislation, particularly legislation from which it cannot retreat. Our job is to protect the States and the people by providing a distillation process for legislation. By providing the balances and checks that are necessary we will give protection to the people and the States. 
We will be faced with a massive program of legislation which is critical and important. The Senate machinery will have to slip into overdrive. We are more or less being asked to decide whether we are going to have big government or limited government. This will involve great change. As we heard yesterday, change is not necessarily bad. We have standards. If we are going to replace them we must be sure that we replace them with something better and not with something worse. Change, in itself, is not bad, but often we are frightened of it. It is often said that one's age is shown by one's inability to adapt to change. I hope that we will be able to adapt to change rather than have to do a complete about face and change altogether the direction in which our Government is going. 
I have been interested in politics for many years, but it was the growing health crisis that precipitated my participation in politics. The catalyst, of course, was when I noticed the fiery fingers of the Federal Government coming between me and my patients. So I stepped off and got into politics. I will be speaking more in this chamber on the subject of health which soon will be an important subject of discussion in this place. Health is the single most important item on anybody's agenda. A government- any government- must think twice before interfering with it. It is a private, personal and individual matter. Many health schemes have been tried all round the world. Most of them have failed dismally. We should not accept any scheme that has been proven a failure. What we should do is take the very best out of other schemes and incorporate it in our own. Of course, once I had entered politics I found that it was like opening Pandora's box and seeing all the moths flying out everywhere. Some of my colleagues have said that they were not moths but rather were cockroaches crawling out of the wall. I prefer to think of them as moths. 
I am very proud of Queensland. I am proud of its resources and the balanced way in which they are being developed. Despite the biblical flood it has experienced and the plague of locusts it has suffered Queensland is in resounding production. Although Queensland is a coal producing State it has many other resources, including copper, sulphur, lead, bauxite, phosphate deposits and, despite the difficulties, resounding rural industries. I like to think that Queensland enjoys this situation because of its sound administration, hard work, good government and solid leadership. I still like to think that it is because of those factors that I am here today. I say that because I am really an unlikely senator, having occupied the bottom of a 6-man ticket in Queensland. But the people have chosen to send me here and, as I have said, I am proud to be among my fellow senators. 
Some supporters of the Government have expressed a cordial dislike with the campaign that was waged in Queensland. I think circumstances have shown that what is going on in Queensland is successful. I think it is obvious that prosperous rural communities lead to prosperous towns and cities. The two are interdependent. It is my policy and my Party's policy to support and give incentives to the people who live in rural communities and to compensate them for the harassments of distance, which I know are real because I have lived in the country for much of my life. In the north of Australia- not only in Queensland but also in the Northern Territory and Western Australia- we seem to have discovered an Aladdin's cave that is full of glittering treasures. Perhaps that will give us some clue as to what should be done about representation of the Northern Territory in the Senate. My Party stands for the development of a new State. Rather than give to the Northern Territory the right of representation by 2 senators I think it would be better to push its development forward until it is mature enough to receive statehood and then have 10 senators and proper representation. 
The Government has a problem because we are now moving into a whole new lot of frontiers in relation to sociology. Concerning the financing of them I want to say that the Government should be very wary of any of the schemes that require financing by the Robin Hood method, that is, by robbing the rich to give to the poor. Remember, no matter what is said about Robin Hood, he was still a hood. The new terminology to describe this, of course, is 'to reconstruct the economy'. I again warn the Government to be careful not to take money from people who have earned it and give it to people who have not earned it. 
On the status of women, may I say that I have always held the ladies in the highest regard. They are now on a whirlwind campaign to elevate themselves. I must say as a practising doctor, a field in which one sees both sides of the question, that the scales are heavily weighted in favour of this being a man's world. I wish the ladies well but I do hope that when the whirlwind and the dust settle they will keep that little bit of magic and mystery which makes all the difference. 
I should like to say one thing that concerns our interest in the internal affairs of other countries. I say here and now that unless other countries are going to attack us or there is a fear that war may break out then their affairs are none of our business. We should trade with them. You do not have to like people to trade with them. It is nicer if you do like them but you do not have to like them. To me all that this attitude seems to have brought about is interference with our trading operations. It has stopped us seeing some of the world's top athletes and artists, and it has even stopped cultural exchanges. We are silly to deny the people of Australia such exchanges. While dealing with foreign affairs I point out that recently I returned from a visit to the People's Republic of China which is a socialist state and a totally organised economy. While this may suit the Chinese people, I am sure that it will never suit the Australian people. I thank honourable senators and you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  for the indulgence displayed in listening to my maiden speech. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator McAuliffe)-  I call  Senator Walsh  and ask honourable senators to extend to him the usual courtesy as he will be making his maiden speech. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Prime Minister agreed to the request of the State Premiers for a special Premiers conference to discuss State initiatives to fight inflation? If not, what is the reason for the delay on a matter of such urgency? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for the Media, is prompted by the Minister's action in relation to Channel 0 television station in Brisbane. Is it a fact that radio station 4KQ in Brisbane is owned by the Australian Labor Party? Is it a fact that this station does not have a news service or employ journalists, but instead takes the Australian Broadcasting Commission news on relay? In view of 4KQ's high profitability, will the Minister take steps to ensure that this station begins a news service on the same lines as that provided by 4IP-Channel 0 
There is not a lot of time left for this debate tonight but I want to compliment  Senator Guilfoyle  on her clear and comprehensive resume of the effects of the proposed health Bills. It was staggering to me to find that the Government should put forward a senator from Queensland to speak in favour of these Bills. If ever there was a bunch of senators which had a clear mandate to vote against the Bills it is the senators from Queensland. These Bills will not only disadvantage every person in Australia and every State in Australia; they will particularly damage Queensland and every Queenslander, and that includes  Senator Keeffe.  I also was staggered to hear  Senator Keeffe,  who comes from Queensland, disparage so many of the doctors there- doctors who are fighting to see that these Bills are hot passed because they have an interest in their patients. 
I notice that the honourable senator reacts in a typical socialist way with ridicule. That is all that he has to fight with, apart from irrelevancies. He tried to frighten us by telling us that pensioners are dying, that doctors are leaving them in the gutters, probably bleeding to death. He said that there are widows and children lying like broken dolls. Those remarks are irrelevant and untrue. They do not represent the situation. All that has happened is that doctors in Queensland are refusing to accept Government money for the treatment of pensioners. They are not refusing to treat pensioners; they are still prescribing medicines and treatment under the national health scheme. 
The Government is paying. The Government accepted responsibility for the pensioners so why should it not pay for them and pay a proper fee?  Senator Keeffe  tried to say that these Bills are not a blueprint for nationalisation. They are. Schemes like this have been tried in lots of countries and they have always failed because they have only ever been tried by socialist governments. The Labor Government is trying to inflict it on us and we must not stand for it. The Government talks about honourable senators on this side of the chamber behaving in an old.fashioned way and says that the Senate must split in an ironclad fashion on party lines. That is not true. There are several precedents for senators voting for their States irrespective of the party line. If  Senator Keeffe  would read 'Australian Senate Practice' by our inimitable  Clerk  of the Senate,  Mr Odgers,  he would see that there are precedents for senators voting to protect their States. 
I can recall a couple of instances. Senators from South Australia voted against the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority because it was going to rob them of the waters of the Murray River. On another occasion senators from Western Australia voted to protect their State in respect of a gold tax Bill. 
They are very rare but they are important. Health is important to everyone and these Bills are designed to rob people of their health care. I invite honourable senators to look at the Bills. I think there are 133 clauses in the Health Insurance Bill and 74 of them relate to restrictions and controls- anything to stop people from getting health service. Any health service must be designed to provide care for patients. It should not be a money business but these Bills relate to a money business. Patients must be looked after singly and individually. You cannot lump them together and say that there are so many of these cases and so many of those cases and then look after them on a massive scale. Health care is a single and individual business. 
That is irrelevant but it is so that people can be looked after on an individual basis. The community health centres and clinics that  Senator Georges  talks about are an outcrop of the socialist scheme. The community health centre is a badly thought out and ill defined concept. In fact it has not even been defined. In England 44 were built over about the last 10 years and only 4 remain open today. That shows what a ridiculous concept they are. They have nothing to do with health care, only socialist health care, and that is what the Government is trying to introduce here. 
One of the difficulties in trying to finance health care in this fashion is that only a small proportion of the population is sick at any one time and that proportion varies from day to day. I may be sick today and you may be sick tomorrow. This is one of the difficulties. Australia was on the verge of solving that difficulty but now, suddenly, we are faced with an insoluble problem- a problem which has proved insoluble overseas. Any plan geared to the assumption that all of us are going to be sick at any one time, particularly with catastrophic illness or illness involving long term intensive care, is doomed to failure. That is what this Bill promises. They are a few more of the shibboleths which have been raised. This Bill promises that it will give the patient freedom from worry and fear about the financial consequences of illness. Who is the patient? You and I are the patients. We will not be spared any of the financial consequences of illness. We will be bled white trying to pay for them. We have every reason to fear the financial consequences of illness. The Bill promises social equity in health insurance, on the ground that the rich pay less for their health insurance because they can claim their premiums as tax deductible. The rich are paying more tax anyway. A lot of that money comes back to the people in pension benefits, repatriation benefits and other health expenditure. There is not social inequity at the moment on the ground of tax deductibility. 
It is claimed that the present insurance schemes are a waste of public moneys simply because it costs IS per cent of the premiums to collect the money. Does the Government think that it can do better? It certainly does. It says that it can halve this expenditure. I venture to say that that would not be everybody's experience of Government expenditure. The Government claims that over one million people in Australia lack proper protection. The figure in the second reading speech varied from the figure which was presented earlier. In the second reading speech only half a million were claimed. As  Senator Guilfoyle  pointed out, the figure is actually unknown. In selling the scheme to the electorate, the Government claimed that one million people lacked proper protection. The degree of protection was only the Government's view of what proper protection was, anyway. If you ask an insurance salesman about your insurance he will predict some dire mayhem in the future and will sell you more insurance. 
Where are all these people who are lacking proper protection? There are certainly not any in Queensland, where everybody is covered free of a means test. Are they the migrants? I have numerous migrant patients who are not covered by medical benefit funds and who do not wish to be covered by medical benefit funds. They would rather have the freedom of choice as to where they put their money-into their homes, holidays or anywhere else. Usually they are building a future here but they choose not to join a medical benefit fund. The Labor Party will take away that right and the freedom to spend their money where they wish. That is what the Government will do compulsorily. By Government decree it will take the right and freedom from them. It is a typical socialist trick. 
Are the poor lacking proper protection? It is certainly not the poor, particularly in Queensland. I heard in petitions that some poor people could not afford to pay the premiums. That is not right. The means test comes to their aid. In addition, there are subsidised health benefits on 3 levels, depending on the person's income. If a person went to a doctor and said that he was too poor to pay the bill he would not be refused attention to his needs. No doctor would refuse a patient, particularly one who was in need. A patient might find it easier to get into the health scheme if he admitted it. He could still have his choice of specialist because, under the health scheme, the doctor would refer him to a specialist who had public beds in a hospital and who could treat him there. 
-That is not true. I do not believe it. Are the Aborigines lacking proper protection? Are they to be numbered among these people? Certainly not. They are a proud and a noble people. They have a fierce independence regarding their health care. I work with Aborigines and I treat many more than those with whom I work. None of them are unhappy. None of them are dissatisfied. None of them are disadvantaged. Certainly we can do more for the Aborigines but we can do more for honourable senators opposite, too. Where is all the big public demand for a radical change in our health care system? Why should we put it into reverse gear and let it go backwards? Has anyone heard a public outcry that Australia's health care system has gone to the dogs? Has anyone heard that it is costing too much or that patients cannot afford medical care? The only cries one hears come from the Government. They have not come from the patients. The Government is squealing. 
I represent them, too. Private fees are high at the moment, but that is the fault of the Government. It has not increased its medical benefit rebates to patients. It has not increased payments to doctors for pensioner patients, repatriation patients or compensation claimants. The only way in which a doctor can compensate for that failure to increase payments to doctors is to increase his private fees. So they are high. Doctors charge a much reduced rate for pensioners, repatriation patients and compensation cases. We hear the squeals of some Ministers that the Government is subsidising the doctors. It is the other way round. Doctors are subsidising the Government. In the Senate we have heard the claim that the present scheme encourages unnecessary operations and encourages doctors to keep the patients sick. 
It was made in a maiden speech. 
Yes. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  There is no substance in the point of order. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  The medical profession, which is a great profession, possesses the ability to police itself. On the whole, doctors are rugged individualists who take pride in their ability to cure. Imagine the organisation required by any doctor who wished to establish a practice by doing unnecessary operations. He would require a team of general practitioners sending him cannon fodder, a co-operative surgical assistant at the operations, as well as a co-operative anaesthetist, a co- operative operating theatre staff and hospital, including the pathology staff. Can anybody really suggest that at this time of shortage of doctors and shortage of beds and with plenty of other legitimate work to do, such an underground organisation could come into existence? Far from wanting to keep patients sick, a doctor's livelihood and reputation depend upon his ability to cure people. 
Debate interrupted. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In answer to a question last Thursday the Minister representing the Minister for Health stated that special precautions are being taken at Darwin with passengers arriving from Bali and Timor to prevent the introduction of foot and mouth disease into this country. The concern for foot and mouth disease arises because of the present outbreak on Bali. Is the Minister aware that Pan-Am, Garuda and Qantas, the 3 airlines flying between Australia and Bali, do not land at Darwin but fly direct to Sydney? Are special precautions being taken at Sydney as well as Darwin? If not, will the Minister ensure that these precautions are introduced because the greatest danger from foot and mouth disease in Bali is presented at the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport rather than at the Darwin airport? 

 -Mr President, you will remember that when the time for debate ran out last night I was in the middle of dispelling some of the charges that had been laid against our existing health scheme and I was also dispelling some of the reasons given to warrant the introduction of these new Bills. I had pointed out to honourable senators that any health scheme in any State or nation must exist solely for the patient as an individual and not be based on a system of regimentation of either patients or doctors. I had pointed out that 74 clauses of the 1 34 clauses of the Bill- over half of them- deal with controls and restrictions on the scheme. I had pointed out that one of the difficulties in trying to implement a scheme such as this new one arises from the fact that only a small proportion of the population is sick at any one time. This Health Insurance Bill proposes to cover all the people as if they fall sick all the time. Not only does it do that but also it tries to cover them for catastrophic illness and long term illness which may follow catastrophic illness requiring intensive care. Any health plan which promises that much is doomed to failure because it cannot fulfil the promise. That is the position with these 2 Bills. 
The Bills promise the patient freedom from  the fear of the financial consequences of illness '. But,  Mr President,  the patients are like you and me; they are taxpayers. We will not be freed from any of the financial consequences of illness. Indeed, we have good reason to fear the financial consequences of illness if these Bills are passed. The Bills purport to provide social equality in health insurance. I had pointed out that this claim was made on the grounds that the rich receive cheaper health insurance because of the tax deductibility of their health insurance premiums. I had also pointed out in order to refute this claim that the rich pay higher taxes anyway and that much of that money was returned to the people in the form of health benefits for pensioners, repatriation cases and other health expenditure. The Health Insurance Bill tries to make costs predictable by assuming that it is doctors ' fees that cause increases in costs whereas in reality it is the utilisation of the service that determines the extent of the cost of the service. For example, a person may go to a doctor with an ordinary chest infection and require only one visit and a course of treatment with antibiotics to be returned to normal health. But the condition may be complicated. He may need to come back to the doctor for a further course of treatment, for X-rays and for referral to a specialist. The bills can mount in that way. It is useless and perhaps ridiculous to try to form some idea of the predictability of costs because whether the doctor's fee is above or below some scheduled fee or determined fee has very little to do with the actual cost involved in a medical scheme. 
It is claimed that the present health insurance scheme wastes public money simply because 1 5 per cent of the premiums collected is used in the collection of those premiums. The Government claims that it can do better. It claims that it could collect those premiums cheaper. Indeed, it proposes that it could do the job for half the cost. 
However this would not be everybody's experience in relation to Government expenditure. The claim was made that over one million people in Australia do not have proper medical protection. It was a Government claim. As  Senator Guilfoyle  pointed out, it was an inaccurate figure and it would be difficult to find the right figure. 
-But also the figure was given as 500,000 people when the Bill was read in the Senate. I will assume that it is one million. That is the Government's figure for election purposes I presume. I suppose if we talk to any insurance agent he will assuredly tell us that we need more cover than we already have. We tried to identify these people. Were they migrants? Honourable senators will remember that I told the story of migrants, living within the area of my practice, who wished not to have insurance cover and wanted freedom to spend their money in the way they desired. The introduction of these Bills would take away that right and freedom from the migrants. Certainly, the people of Queensland would not be disadvantaged because everybody is covered for medical treatment and covered free of means test. I have mentioned the poor. A document which dealt with the poor was tabled in the Senate today. It stated that they could not afford the premiums. But the means test takes care of that. These people can apply for inclusion in the subsidised health benefits scheme under 3 levels of cover for lower incomes. Thus, they become entitled to the same benefits as anybody else who is covered by the medical benefits schemes. I pointed out, and I insist upon this claim, that if any person is too poor to pay a doctor, that person should certainly go to the doctor because he would not be refused attention to his needs. 
They exist all over the country. I mentioned that such action would make that person's entry into the health machine easier. If he goes to the doctor he can still retain, if he so wishes, his choice of specialist by a general practitioner referring him to a specialist who can then treat him in a public ward. 
I also asked the question: Are Aborigines lacking proper protection? I gave the answer to that question. Certainly not. They are a proud and a noble people. They have a fierce independence in regard to their health care. I work with them and I treat many more. I can say that none of them is unhappy or dissatisfied or even dissatisfied with their health care. I also mentioned that we can do much more for Aborigines. They have 10 times our rate of blood pressure and 10 times the incidence of our rate of diabetes. One child in every five dies before the age of 5 years. But this is not a problem to be dealt with in these Bills. That is work we have yet to do. Our health services can be improved just as those for the Aborigines can be improved. That is not an argument in support of these Bills. 
We do not need to cooperate; we have a free health service. Where is the huge public demand for this scheme? I have not heard it and nobody else has heard it. We have heard only a government demanding that we change our health services. Nobody has claimed that Australian health services have gone to the dogs or that they have got too costly. I admit that private fees are high at the moment, but that is largely because it is the only area in which the doctor can increase the charge for his service. He treats pensioner patients, repatriation patients and compensation patients at Government fees. These fees are too low and have been slow in catching up. I pointed out also that the doctors treat pensioner patients, repatriation patients and compensation patients for a reduced fee. Although the Government says that it is subsidising the doctor, the boot is on the other foot; the doctors are subsidising the Government. 
The claim was made that the present scheme encourages unnecessary operations. I proceeded to dispel that argument by pointing out the tremendous organisation that it would take even to be able to do this sort of thing. I stated that the medical profession has the power to police itself, and ordinarily did so. There was the other charge that the present scheme encourages doctors to keep their patients sick. I pointed out that a doctor lives by his reputation and his ability to cure people. Would it be right to think that we are all so daft that we could not see when a doctor was not giving proper service? 
-No-he does not. We call very quickly for a second opinion. Common sense should dispel any fears that the present scheme is encouraging unnecessary operations or encouraging doctors to keep their patients sick. One has heard the charge made against doctors that they have been bloody-minded and money hungry grubbers. Despite the comments made by Government members I can assure them that doctors are not rich. The old saying 'Show me a rich doctor and I will show you a rich real estate agent' probably has a fair deal of truth in it. Under the present system doctors assume responsibility for the patients they treat, and they work long hours. To discount the epithets I would like to point out that under the conditions promised in the new Bills doctors will be a lot better off financially, even if they go to the extent of bulk billing their patients and accepting only 85 per cent of their fees. Under this Bill also a doctor will be relieved of his responsibility to the patients. He will be paid whether he kills them or cures them. He will be paid on the basis of the number of patients passing through his surgery. In other words, he does not have to worry about the patients. But he wants to worry about and care for the patients. 
It will be, because a doctor has to live, he has to raise his family and send his children to school. The only way he will be able to increase his income will be by seeing more patients, and what has happened under the Canadian scheme will happen under our scheme. 
Yes. But what about the quality of care? If a doctor is paid by the Government then he is working for the government, not for the patient- and that is a critical change that will disadvantage every Australian. With all the rules, restrictions, checks and the inquiries proposed under these Bills, does the Government think a doctor will jeopardise his government job for the sake of the patient? Certainly he will not. As the patient looks into his new doctor's steely eyes he will see that a government wedge has been driven between him and the doctor. The doctor will no longer have to satisfy the patient; he will have to satisfy the government. He will no longer have to listen to the patient or even care about him, he will be paid anyway. Another ill effect that will occur is that the moment the patient irritates, annoys or even begins to worry the doctor, the doctor will refer him immediately to somebody else who will be paid a little bit more to take on such knotty problems. He will be what is known overseas as a referologist'. The patient will just come in and the doctor will not listen to or worry about him but will send him to somebody else who will be paid to do the worrying. I described earlier what happened in Canada when the doctors were put on a low fixed fee and increased and speeded up their throughput of patients through the surgery. I think that the average time a patient spent in a surgery was 3 minutes,- which is barely enough time to learn his name. Of course, those doctors' incomes skyrocketed and so the Canadian Government had to fix a ceiling to their incomes. As a result the doctors worked hard and at the rate they were putting patients through it took them only about 6 months to reach this ceiling. So the government had to rule that they could not see more than 300 patients a week. 
It is a sad commentary on governments and their silly rules. The main problem we have is government interference in our health services. These sorts of schemes have been tried all around the world. They have always been brought in by socialists and have always proved disastrous. Of course everyone assumes that the patient is the white haired boy in the health scheme. The way the patients can abuse the proposed scheme as they have abused the British, Canadian and Scandanavian schemes beggars the imagination. The patient will have no restriction on the number of doctors or specialists he can go to and so he can build up some staggering bills which we, the taxpayers, must pay. Under the proposed scheme doctors are not encouraged to improve their practices. They will not be paid for any procedures performed at the time of consultation. All they will be paid for is the passage of patients through the surgery. So a doctor is not encouraged to supply ancillary services such as X-rays, electrocardiography, pathology tests and all those other things that save the patient's time, travel and inconvenience. This is a withering way to force doctors to practice. 
The British national health scheme, by the way, was born of tragedy and has lurched its way over the years to its present chaos. It had one brief period of glory about 10 or 15 years ago but it was able to exist only because it did not destroy private medical practice; the two kept going together. These Bills propose to destroy private medical practice and have doctors working for the government. If this is done it will put Australia in an impossible position from a health point of view. The Queensland free hospitals scheme exists only because it is complemented by an active and vigorous private medical practice. The balance between private and public practice acts to improve health standards because of the competition between the two. 
Patients must be given a choice between the two and doctors and staff also must be given a choice between the two so that we can have optimal standards and healthy co-operation between the two. The British national health scheme has broken down. Australia is short of doctors and if we do not pass these Bills we can expect very shortly another influx of refugee doctors from Great Britain. This of course would not be in the financial interests of local doctors but they would not begrudge it because they know that Australia needs the medical services. Australia does not produce enough medical graduates to serve its needs. This is an area, I point out, where the government could operate most urgently and successfully rather than turn all its energies to these revolutionary Bills. 
In my own State of Queensland, now that the universities have been nationalised, severe quota systems have been imposed on the medical schools, even to the extent that a student can pass his first year medical examinations and not be accepted for the second year. This, I think, is gross government negligence. The last influx of refugee British doctors to Australia was equal in number to the output of one of our medical schools. So not passing these Bills would in effect be as good for the Government as building a whole new medical school. The most important feature at the moment is that all national medical associations are opposed to the implementation or even the introduction of these Bills. They have all considered them carefully. 
-Nobody represents all opinions on anything, particularly the honourable senator. He certainly does not represent my opinion. The Australian Medical Association represents general practitioners, specialists and salaried medical officers. It is the largest body and it is totally opposed to the introduction of these schemes. The National Association of Australian General Practitioners also is totally opposed to these schemes. The Government would know just how opposed is the General Practitioners' Society to the scheme. Probably all the Royal Colleges are against the introduction of these schemes but being academic bodies they do not express political opinions. Only two small, isolated groups of doctors support these Bills. We must respect their right to their opinion; there are socialists even in my own profession. What is sad, though, is that the Government has lost the goodwill of the medical profession- and my profession operates on goodwill. If these Bills are implemented the Government will lose the goodwill of the hospitals too. In fact, it has lost the goodwill of private hospitals and nursing homes. 

Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was discussing the subject of goodwill in the medical game. I was propounding the theory that goodwill was all-important and that it was worth just about anything- and it is, too. The goodwill of doctors, the nurses and all hospital staff and health workers is most important, just as confidence and faith also are important in the health game. When you get sick you need help and a lot of this help can be provided simply by goodwill among people at very little cost. But if you destroy the goodwill you increase the costs no end. The point that I was making was that the Government had lost the goodwill of the medical profession and of the private hospitals and that all national representative bodies of the medical profession were implacably opposed to the proposed legislation. I count among those bodies the Australian Medical Association, representing as it does specialists and general practitioners and salaried medical officers, the National Association of General Practitioners, and the General Practitioners Society which has been more active than any of the other societies because it was the first to see the light. 
I mentioned that probably all of the royal colleges would be opposed to the new legislation but as they were academic bodies they did not express political opinions. So the Government in losing this goodwill will create great extra cost. In the face of this opposition it will be impossible to implement the Bill at all because no national health scheme anywhere can work without the co-operation of the medical profession. In Australia there is not only the absence of cooperation but there is outright hostility between the medical profession and the Government. The Government has even tried various means to get the doctors back on side. It has tried coercion, it has tried public ridicule, and it has tried the golden handshake in order to try to enslave doctors and patients as well to its will. I am tempted to ask: 'Why cannot the Government just leave us all alone?', because government intervention is the main reason why there is this terrible problem in the health industry today. All that the Government's scheme will do will be to tell you, the patients, how much health the Government will let you have and it will tell me, the doctor, how much health I am allowed to give you. That is just not good enough. People want more than they need; this is a natural human characteristic, and the Government should take note of it. Under this legislation, when people do want more than they need they will have nowhere to go to get it. 
All of the national health schemes which have been implemented in Western countries have been set up by politicians trying to curry favour with the voters on the promise of relieving them of the financial burdens of illness, particularly catastrophic illness. These schemes have certainly not been generated by the people in the business, the doctors, nurses and allied medical personnel- not because of any vested interest in such a scheme but because they know that socialised health will not work. If honourable senators want to take this argument to extremes- I am sure that some of them have been to Russia, and I have been to China- they should take a look at the socialised medical services of those 2 countries? Russia has had 50 years to make socialised health work and China 25 years. But by our standards those countries are medically backward. This is simply because of government restrictions on health care unopposed by any private medical service. In our experience of socialised health services in other countries, the promise of health care 'free to the consumer at the point of consumption' immediately creates an unlimited demand for those services. But there is a limited budget from which those services can be supplied. Then these 2 factors diverge from each other- as the demand for health care goes up and you start spending to meet it, the available finance diminishes, and the only way the government can fix this situation is to put restrictions on the demand- and it does. Controls are placed on patients and on doctors. This leads to huge dissatisfactions first among patients, second among doctors and third among the government. This has happened in other countries. 1 would like to mention one scheme about which we will be hearing more shortly. This scheme is probably the last refuge of the politically diagnostically destitute. I refer to the Kaiser Permanente Scheme which I think will be the subject of the next device which the Government will resort to. I can dismiss this scheme in a few sentences. It is a scheme implemented in America within the Kaiser industrial empire and is based on pre-paid medical care. The scheme applies only to employees of the Kaiser empire. It involves, first, medical examination. It has many exemption clauses and it does not provide a complete cover. Anyone who suffers from a condition not covered by the scheme has to get medical attention in the big private hospitals such as the Cedars of Lebanon in the Sacramento Valley. In other words, without the backup of private hospital services this whole scheme would crumble and fail. 
I hope I have said enough to show that Australia's present health organisation is not ramshackle, inequitable and wasteful'. Certainly it has some shortcomings but it does not have the shortcomings that the scheme proposed by the legislation would have. The shortcomings that the present scheme has arc not of sufficient magnitude to warrant an about face into socialised medicine. For a start, the Government has done nothing so far- it has been in office over 18 months now- about putting pensioners into the subsidised health benefits scheme. Pensioners could already be receiving the benefits covered by ordinary medical insurance. The Government's scheme if implemented would reduce all of the rest of us down to the second class scale by which pensioners are covered now. It would be an act of high social responsibility for the Government immediately to put all pensioners into the subsidised health benefits scheme. 
Also, 1 think that we could probably give a better service to our repatriation patients. Instead of making these people fight for acceptance of certain disabilities due to war service, simply put returned ex-servicemen into the higher scale of medical benefits and let him and probably his family be covered for all illnesses. I believe that this would stop the row. If this were done Repatriation hospitals would not be needed and they could all be made general hospitals. The Pensioner Medical Service was originally a magnificent concept, but it was a limited service. The Sendee limited pensioners to ordinary general practice consultations. But it helped people in reduced circumstances out of trouble. It stopped them creating bad debts and it was a help to doctors, and doctors did see these  pensioners  at the reduced rates. The only reason why the Pensioner Medical Service is failing now is because of lack of ideas and lack of initiative by the Government. The Service should have been updated as time went by into a better and better service until the time when all these people could have been put in the subsidised health benefits scheme. Rather than destroy the service we have built up over the years we should build on it and make it better. This could be easily done. 
I note from the Bill that the Government is to move into the pharmaceutical industry. The production of new drugs is very costly and fraught with danger, not only for the patients but also for the drug companies and the doctors. The drug companies have been accused of being multinational operators which are here to exploit a drug crazed public in order to make excessive profits for bloated capitalists. Actually the drug companies last year made a 7 per cent profit on the sale of drugs. That could not be called anything but modest, particularly in view of the inflation that exists today. We hear now that the Government intends investing our money- the taxpayers' money-in this risk enterprise. I think that is an improper use of our money. Only risk capital should go into the production of these substances. 
Private hospitals are now in an unenviable position. Very few truly private hospitals exist in Australia today. Most of them are religious and charitable institutions which depend heavily on Government subsidy for their livelihood as they should, because they are religious and charitable and exhibit a power of goodwill by the maintenance of their institutions. In return for this Government subsidy the organisations provide teaching facilities for nurses and also provide a small number of public beds. But, with the implementation of the provisions contained in these Bills, the private hospitals will be swamped with public patients simply because the Government has not gone ahead and provided new public beds. The private hospitals will be swamped with public patients in their beds and their livelihood will be reduced at the command of the Minister. In other words they will be forced to comply with the command for their own destruction. These institutions were born of goodwill. They will be tom from the bosom of goodwill and put under Government control. To me this is socialisation. 
Nursing homes have been subjected to a most vicious form of price fixing. It has been enforced to such an extent that many have now closed and the price fixing has been carried out by the Government. A national shortage of nursing home beds exists at present and the Government argues that up to 25 per cent of patients who were in these beds should not have been there. The Government says that those patients should have been looked after at home. But by whom? Many do not even have a home. Does the Government expect the youngest daughter to stay home, as she used to, and look after her parents. This would be a form of social injustice. These patients could even qualify for a small home nursing allowance. But instead of making facilities available for the patients, the Government's solution has been to strangle the nursing homes by fixing low subsidies and rebates for patients and by allowing costs and wages to rise to such a level that the homes have been forced out of business. The Government has lost the goodwill of the administration of private hospitals and nursing homes. This is a pity because, as I mentioned before, goodwill is the sounding board of good health. 
I mention now the development of community health centres. These community health centres which are being established are ill advised, ill conceived and even ill defined white elephants. I mentioned community health centres when 1 was speaking last night mainly to dismiss them. Out of the 44 community health centres built in Great Britain during the last 12 years only 4 remain in existence and are operating at present. They have been tried and have failed lamentably. But they are making their appearance in Australia; they are appearing here in Canberra, and even my own State, Queensland, has built 4 of them. No doubt honourable senators have read of the problems in Canberra and the lessons which have been learned by at least one doctor who tried to work in a community health centre. Even at this stage I might add that it costs 3 times as much for a patient to visit a doctor in a community health centre as it does to visit a general practitioner. It is planned to fill these centres with all sorts of services- including psychiatric services, social welfare services, guidance agencies and expert therapists. I should like to have a word about manpower and womanpower at this point. The number of these expert therapists and guidance experts in Australia today could be counted on the fingers and toes of the people sitting in this Senate. So, where will the staff come from? 
Well, good luck. No other country could find the staff. Those are high sounding words. Whoever conceived the idea must consider we are a nation of nuts. Community health centres were promulgated as a device to supply a much wanted need in the area of general practice. In other words something was lacking and the health centres were to complement and supplement the general practitioners. I have been in the business for 20 years and I have seen no such need for such a massive infusion of costly failures. In reality they represent a futile attempt by the Government to compete with private health services and to put the private services out of business or, at least, to bring the private sector under Government control. The Government ignores completely the future requirement for health care in Australia. There is a natural role for government in health care. I refer to the provision of medical education and research, preventative medicine and administrative medicine. The Government has only a limited role in curative medicine. Obviously the more the Government puts into medical education and research and preventative medicine the less it will have left to put into curative medicine. It is with curative medicine that private enterprise can come to the rescue of the Government. It can do so by taking the burden off the Government so that the Government does not have to supply a great deal of curative medicine. In addition, private enterprise can satisfy the patients better than the Government can. Under the private enterprise system the patient remains in control of his illness and the amount of the health service he wants to use. Under the Government service he compulsorily has to use and do what he is told. 
Medical insurance is tailor made to meet the sudden and unexpected needs of health care. It needs to be a flexible system. Suppose there was a single national medical insurance scheme and a person was dissatisfied with it. Where would he go? To whom would he appeal? He would have no-one. 
That is your opinion. We certainly do not overcharge for our treatment of pensioners, repatriation cases and all Government cases. 
-I doubt it. These Bills are designed to turn us about and plummet us to the bottom of the hodge-podge of socialist health schemes which have proven themselves to be failures right around the world. Health is too important a matter to each and everyone of us to place in the hands of any government, Liberal or Labor. A person's health transcends political boundaries and it must not be shackled by party platforms or political philosophy. 
These Bills, if passed, will disadvantage every State in Australia and every person in Australia, but particularly they will disadvantage Queensland and Queenslanders. If the Senate is to perform its proper role as protector of the States and their people, no-one in this chamber should vote for the passage of these Bills, especially the senators from Queensland who have a mandate to reject them, as I have. 
-Will the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation explain why the increased repatriation pensions announced last night were confined to war widows and service pensioners? Will he assure the Senate that an increase will be extended to all repatriation pensioners in the September Budget? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Prime Minister agreed to the State Premiers' request for a special Premiers' Conference to discuss State initiatives to fight inflation; if not, what is the reason for the delay on a matter of such extreme urgency. 
My question in 3 parts is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Firstly, is it a fact that 5 new community health centres are planned for the eastern suburbs of Sydney? Secondly, is it a fact that it is planned to staff these community health centres by seconding second year resident medical officers from teaching hospitals? Thirdly, is the Minister aware that his announced policy is to provide community health centres in areas of most need and that the eastern suburbs of Sydney already have a most favourable health care situation? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Is he aware that the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association estimates a drop in the number of oil wells being drilled in Australia this year from the low number of 90 to 60, there being meanwhile a boom in oil exploration activity overseas resulting from the recent oil crisis? Does this decline in exploration mean that by 1980 we will be forced to import most of our ofl requirements at uncontrollable overseas prices? Does the Minister deny that this scandalous situation has developed because of fears of nationalisation of the Australian industry? 
-The Australian Country Party is diametrically opposed to the introduction of these Bills.  Senator Guilfoyle  has covered the ground very adequately. I do not wish to flog a tired horse. However, I would like to mention the current unfortunate confrontation that is taking place between the medical benefits funds and the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  Similar confrontations have occurred in the past and have usually been settled by negotiation. The precipitating factors in this instance are the failure of the Labor Government to increase its payments to patients and the staggering increases in costs in private hospitals. These staggering increases have taken place because the private hospitals are labour intensive, high cost industries. Not only do the owners have to allow for the huge capital costs of the hospital buildings which must have built in fire protection and technical equipment which is all expensive but also they have to allow for the fact that every member of the technical staff is highly trained and attracts a big salary. The doctors, sisters, technicians and even the domestic staff are all of a technical nature. Instead of cooks, we have to have dieticians to handle the diets for different diseases. 
Certainly, I run one and we have them there. Awards for wages are often made retrospective. This means that the hospitals have huge outlays which suddenly have to be met from reserves. 
The series of events leading up to the confrontation in Queensland resulting in the Minister requiring more powers is well documented. The Queensland branch of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia made an application for an increase in fees on 26 February 1974. It was advised of the Minister's refusal to grant that application on 18 June 1974. That is a 4-month wait. The letter, by the way, was received by the Fund on 27 June 1974, which is a mute testament to the efficiency of another Government department. In that letter the Minister directed the Medical Benefits Fund to increase its rebates to patients. He actually gave the figures. I would like to use that letter to show that the Minister does have the power now that he is seeking. The letter is from the Assistant Director-General, delegate of the Minister for Social Security, and is dated 18 June 1974. It is addressed to the Public Officer, Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd. I will read a short extract from the letter. 
Dear  Sir, 
You are advised that approval of the proposal to increase your organisation's Queensland hospital fund contribution rates, as notified in your letter of 26 February 1974 to the Department's Brisbane office, has been refused. However, in pursuance of section 73B(c) of the National Health Act 1953-1973, the Minister has directed that you shall cause alterations to be made to your organisation's Queensland hospital fund rules to provide for the weekly contribution rate for all members to the private table to be 63 cents (single) and 51.25 (family). 
Subsequently, that letter was confirmed by a letter from the Queensland Director of the Department of Social Security to the same Public Officer. The letter states: 
Dear  Mr .  . ., 1 refer to the direction given by the Minister for Social Security, on 18 June 1974, - 
And the letter goes on. The letter was received in Brisbane on 27 June. The very next day in the Sunday Mail' the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia announced its increases. I have here a photostat copy of its advertisement. To give authority to the advertisement, it included the statement: 
The new Private Hospital Contribution rate as directed by Minister for Social Security, - 
It goes on to give the rates. The Minister objected to this and made a statement from Canberra. This was quoted in the 'Courier Mail' on Tuesday, 30 July 1974 as follows: 
A report on medical benefits last Saturday was misleading, the Social Security Minister  (Mr Hayden)  said yesterday. 
He said that the Medical Benefits Fund Queensland manager . . . had said that increases in the Fund's private hospital contribution rates were 'directed ' by him. 
The Medical Benefits Fund applied for increases to take the rates up to $1.50 a week for family cover and 75c a week for single people, '  Mr. Hayden  said. 
I disallowed that application, and instead approved lower rates of $1.25 and 63c. 
 It was therefore misleading to suggest that I 'directed ' the increased contribution rates, when I actually reduced the proposed costs to the public' 
It is obvious from subsequent events, including the events taking place in New South Wales, that the Department of Social Security, through its Minister, has lost the goodwill of the medical benefit funds. I mentioned in an earlier speech that already the Minister had lost the goodwill of the doctors, the private hospitals, and the nurses and the nursing homes. Now he has lost the goodwill of the medical benefit funds. This is shown by an urgent telegram that was sent to the Minister by the Chairmen of the Medical Benefits Fund and the Hospitals Contribution Fund in New South Wales. It is an urgent telegram addressed to the honourable W. G. Hayden dated 30 July 1974. It reads: 
Your telegram of yesterday received this morning. Your unwarranted attack in the media last night and this morning on the integrity and propriety of the governing bodies of our two funds precludes any useful discussion with you under the circumstances. We are not prepared to confer with you until you withdraw your completely unjustified statements that the funds are acting improperly and in conflict with contributor interests. 
That is a sad testimony to the state of affairs at the moment between the Government and the medical benefit funds. The point I wish to make is that the Minister already has powers that he seeks. That is mentioned in his second reading speech. 
-Once again, it is my pleasure to follow in a debate  Senator Guilfoyle  with her clear and comprehensive coverage of the issue before us. This National Health Bill (No. 2) has been brought forward with inordinate urgency to cover what is supposedly a serious defect in the National Health Act. To me, it seems to promise nothing but piracy and plunder. I think that in the end the Bill is designed effectively to destroy our private medical services. Fortunately, the Bill provides a provision for appeal. I notice that the Bill deals mainly with controls. I wish to cite the situation as it exists and as it is stated in the second reading speech of the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon).  He says: 
Under the existing provisions, an alteration by a registered medical or hospital benefit fund to its contribution rates is inoperative and has no legal effect unless and until approval of the alteration has been given by the Minister for Social Security. The existing law also requires a registered medical or hospital fund to comply with any direction given to it by the Minister regarding the rates of contribution payable by its members. 
One wonders what other power the Minister could seek. However, the Minister feels that there is some uncertainty about the situation when a medical benefits organisation offers a package deal- whatever that is. I presume it is his interpretation that the Minister's powers are limited to acceptance or rejection in toto of the application. This may very well be so. But one fails to see the significance of the need for such drastic action as this when simple consultation between the Minister and the funds has been all that has been necessary in the past and should be all that is necessary now. 
This Bill seeks to empower the Minister to decide the levels of contributions separately from the medical benefits funds. One would presume that the Minister would be looking at the same figures as the funds because he could only ever get them from the funds. Once again, simple consultation between the 2 parties should be all that is necessary, rather than a radical alteration of the law which would give the Minister unlimited power- probably power to destroy the funds should he feel so inclined. The Bill also seeks to give a clear legal authority to the policy of the Government in that the Minister, in considering whether he will approve or reject proposed increases, can consider the excessive money standing to the credit of a fund over the amounts reasonably required for the purposes of the fund. 
One wonders what are the definitions of the words 'excessive' and 'reasonably required'. Who is to decide what is excessive and what is reasonable, particularly if the Minister is allowed to decide these things separately and apart from the fund? As I mentioned earlier today, these funds are non-profit organisations. Their books are open to inspection and they are audited. The funds have been functioning for years and years. It is easy for them to estimate forward planningapart from the tremendous rises that are now being caused by inflation, but they could be allowed for. So, once again, simple consultation should be all that is required. Finally, the Bill provides for a right of appeal, which I think is the only good point in it- except that one could imagine that if an appeal were lodged it could take 6 months for it to be heard, by which time the fund concerned could be broke. So the Minister could achieve his purpose by providing for the right appeal. 
The Minister has said that the funds intend to use every step within their power to see that they retain intact the vast and excessive reserves that they have built up through the years by consistently overcharging contributors. That sounds like a rather emotional appeal, particularly when it is remembered that the contributions and rebates are fixed by mutual agreement between the Government and the funds and have been so fixed for years. The Minister mentioned overcharging. Who says that the funds have been overcharging. Their contribution rates have been under close government supervision. Once again I reiterate that they are non-profit funds. The funds have demonstrated clearly that they operate cheaply and efficiently. 
The Minister has stated that even now there are excessive levels of reserves and that the situation has become intolerable. I wonder to whom it has become intolerable. It certainly has not become intolerable to the contributors or to the funds. I think that it has become intolerable only to the Minister because he will not be able to get his hands on the reserves unless the Senate gives him the power to do so. The Minister has said that the reserves should be used for the direct benefit of contributors and to hold down contribution rates to the lowest level compatible with the financial viability of the funds. That is happening now. The funds are indemnified by the Government. They do not want to be holding excessive reserves. 
The Minister also has said that one can reasonably apprehend that if adequate action is not taken now to protect the public interest- whatever that means- health insurance funds throughout Australia may be encouraged to flout reasonable instructions on contribution rates and benefit levels. From what has happened to the 2 health insurance companies in New South Wales it would appear that the 'reasonable instructions' are outright rejection. As to what has happened with respect to the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia, I would like to read a short extract from a letter I received today. 
-No. It shows  Mr Hayden  's emotional over-reaction to the possibility of flouting. The letter was written by the General 
Manager of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd in Sydney. It states: 
  Mr Hayden  is trying to create the impression that he received short notice of the Fund's intention to increase contribution rates on August 1 to meet the increases in benefits ranging from 52 per cent to 1 67 per cent. 
They are the amounts that the funds have to pay out. The letter continues: 
Following the New South Wales Government's announcement on June 4 that hospital charges would rise on August 1, the Funds received a preliminary circular from the Department of Social Security on June 1 8. This was followed by a circular from the Department of Social Security (dated 5.7.74) on July 8 stating that the Depanment had arranged a meeting on July 1 1 'in order to outline policy organisations should follow in the submission ... to increase benefits  . . from I August 1974'. At the meeting on July 1 1 the Assistant Director-General for Social Security . . . made it pretty clear to some funds' representatives that it would be unlikely that they would be able to increase contributions to meet the increased benefit payout. He did, of course, say that the final decision would be made when the funds' submissions had been examined. 
However, with the effluxion of time and the new rates coming in, the funds had to go ahead unilaterally. 

 - Mr J. F. Cade, the General Manager of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd. I have pointed out that the submission that the Medical Benefits Fund made to the Minister is clear and open. It went into great detail for him. It even divided the submission up into nursing homes, private hospitals and all the other facets of its operations, plus projections for the future. Rather than confirming  Mr Hayden  's statement that the Medical Benefits Fund and the Hospitals Contribution Fund now have reserves of $50m, their projections show that they will have an operating surplus of $2m as at 30 June 1975. 1 do not want to delay the Senate any longer as the Opposition will not be opposing the passage of this Bill. But I do point out that it does seem to be a rather severe measure to take to alter the whole Act in order to generate power for the Minister. 
I think that we all really want to know what effect the passage of these Bills will have on the patients, the doctors, the hospitals and the health industry overall. But before I deal with that I wish to address some words to the Government on its attitude to the role and function of the Senate. 
Yesterday in the debates Government members stated quite categorically that they did not regard the Senate as a States House. Indeed, they wanted to abolish it, but they realised that this was some sort of Utopian dream that they could not yet achieve. They have found that the Senate is a tough nut and not being able to dissolve it they have decided to dilute it. This will happen as a result of one of the Bills which was passed yesterday. 
The role of the Senate is most pertinent to this health legislation. We are to have some pseudo-senators in the Senate. But the Senate is a States House because there are 10 senators from each State elected to it so that an equal representation from each State is maintamed. This is to protect the interests of the smaller States. 

 - Senator Poyser comes from one of those States. 
Queensland, the State which I represent, will be inimically damaged by the passage of this health legislation. The role of the Senate is most important in relation to this matter. 
-The Government informed us yesterday that the Senate discusses the problem of the States in its Party room, but not all senators belong to the Government side of the Senate. Almost half of them belong to the Opposition side of the Senate. To decide State issues in the Labor Party's party room is to disfranchise every voter in the States. Is that parliamentary democracy or is it socialism? I call it socialism. There have been several precedents for senators to act on behalf of their States. I remember reading in relation to the legislation establishing the Snowy Mountains Authority that New South Wales and Victoria were going to tamper with the water of the River Murray and disadvantage South Australia. All the South Australian senators voted together to protect their State. Similarly, in relation to the Gold Mining Industry Assistance Bill, the Western Australian senators stuck together and protected Western Australia. 

-Certainly. I hope that with the health Bills all Queensland senators will vote together, as they have been clearly instructed to do, and reject them. 
-By the people of Queensland. Let us not have any misconception about either of these health Bills. They do not promise people any better health. They promise worse health. They certainly promise high taxes. Everybody has spoken about the cost. The cost will come out of people's taxes. What the Bills promise is a universal and compulsory insurance scheme. In those Bills is contained the machinery for socialisation. This will be achieved by a simple process of strangulation of the private medical services that we enjoy today and it will replace them by a single huge, Government operated, bureaucratic machine, I presume something like the Post Office, of which all Government supporters would have knowledge, where one pays more and gets less. 
This high tax, ill-health Bill is the first step in destroying our private health insurance, our private general practitioner service, our private specialist service, our private hospitals, our private nursing homes and our private ancillary services. Once that happens Australia will be stuck with a fully nationalised service such as exists in the socialist countries. Then, my dear patient, when you crawl into your sick bed the Government will crawl in beside you. And the Government is not a very good bed-mate. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said, if the Government pays, the Government controls. In these new public beds a person will cease to be a patient and will become what is known as teaching material. Curiously, a lot of people do not mind being made teaching material, but they should remember also that they will be used for research purposes. 
As has been stated during these debates, many countries have tried various forms of socialised health. They are all variations on a theme and they all come from the magnificent promise of freedom from cost and worry, mainly from politicians in order to curry favour and win votes. But in not one of those countries is any one of those schemes a success. Indeed, they are failing and they are costing the people of those countries enormous amounts which they cannot bear. Why should we make the mistakes that have been made overseas? If there are any good features in their systems, certainly we should lift them and incorporate them in ours, but we have no need to practise their folly. Despite the claims of honourable members opposite, Australians are not generally dissatisfied with the health service they have at the moment. Any faults that exist lend themselves to easy correction. If we are to replace our health services and the good standard that we enjoy, we should replace them with something better, not something worse. 
Quite good. They are low only because of Government interference and because the Government has imposed vicious price fixing on them causing many of them to close. 
The Government has given many reasons why it should introduce this new scheme. It says that over one million people are not covered by private medical insurance cover. The number has been disputed, and rightly so. But even if one person is not properly covered then it is the duty of the Government to see that he is brought in out of the cold. If one per cent, 5 per cent or 10 per cent are not properly covered, then certainly it is the duty of the Government to see that they are covered, but not to tip the other 90 per cent out into the cold, which is what this Bill proposes. It will expose us all to the second-rate class of treatment that pensioners get. The Government claims that the passage of these Bills will remove the fear of the financial consequences of illnesses from the patients, but who are the patients? They are you and I. The high cost of the Government 's scheme will not relieve us of any fears of the financial consequences of illness. Indeed, we will be suffering from them because we as taxpayers will have to foot the bill. It is maintained that there is social inequality in the cost of medical insurance simply because richer people can deduct their premiums from their income for tax purposes and get it more cheaply, but I would point out that the richer people pay more tax anyway and out of that tax a fair whack is taken for the provision of other health services. 
Mention was made of the unpredictability of costs and the way in which the Government will fix doctor's fees to some myth of a thing called a common fee. I would point out that the doctor's fee is not the important factor in the rising medical costs. It is the utilisation of the service that creates the high costs. When a patient goes to the doctor he does not know whether he has a little illness or a big illness. It might just involve one consultation and a prescription, but it might involve the doctor sending the patient for tests, an X-ray, a further opinion, hospitalisation or an operation. The cost depends on the usage. We cannot possibly predict medical costs. The doctor's fee is only a minor part of those costs. Doctors, of course, have been accused of being bloody-minded and money-grubbing. It has already been pointed out in this Parliament that if the Government's medical scheme is brought in doctors will earn a lot more. I would point out also that over the last 20 years or more doctors have been providing cheap services for the Government for treatment of pensioners, repatriation patients and workers compensation cases. Rather than the Government subsidising the doctors the boot is on the other foot and the doctors have been subsidising the Government. 
The Government talks about the demeaning application of the means test. I know that it is the policy of my Party to abolish the means test and I thought it was the policy of the Government to do so, but its spending in other directions, which has reduced the economy to dire straits, has not allowed it to do so. Yet at least the means test sees that services go to the areas of most need. The charge that pensioners get second-rate care is true. For the last 20 months the Government has done nothing about it. All it has to do to fix it is to put the pensioners in a medical benefits scheme and then the whole range of medical care will be open to pensioners. 
The most critical part of the Bills involves that crafty ruse whereby doctors will be gradually coerced into bulk billing the Government. When that happens it means that the Government will be paying the doctor, or in other words, the doctor will be working for the Government and will not be working for the patient. Once that happens we will all be sorry and every Australian will be disadvantaged. When the patient comes to see the doctor he will find all of a sudden that a government wedge has been driven between him and the doctor. He will find when he attends his doctor that if the doctor's fee is fixed and low the only mechanism the doctor has to earn more money is to see more patients. The patient will be scorching his pants going through the doctor's surgery, as has happened in other countries that have tried this type of scheme. The patient, by the way, has been the forgotten person in all of this scheme. When we come to think of it, the whole health edifice exists for the patient. Our medical education, medical research, administrative medicine, curative medicine and preventive medicine all exist for the patient- and one at a time, not in big groups. If we have no private medical care to balance public medical care the patient has to take it or leave it, like it or lump it. I was amused to hear other speakers say that they would fix the problems of hospitals and doctors in this country, apparently by the passage of these Bills. 
At the moment Australia is suffering from a tremendous shortage of doctors. Where are the new ones to come from? Now that the Government has nationalised the universities, Queensland has a situation where a medical student can pass his first year medicine but not be accepted into second year medicine because quota systems are rigidly applied. 
Under these new Bills doctors are not encouraged to expand the service which they give to patients in their surgeries. The doctor will be paid only for the patient's passage through the surgery. In other words he is not encouraged to provide pathology tests, X-rays, cardiographs and all those other services which save time and inconvenience to patients. 
The promise of free health care to the consumer at the point of delivery is a wild one. It is incapable of fulfilment because a promise like that immediately creates an unlimited demand. To satisfy that demand there is a Government Budget. The two cannot meet. Indeed, one goes away from the other and we wind up with dissatisfied doctors, patients and government. I recommend that we reject the Bills. 
I think that we all really want to know what effect the passage of these Bills will have on the patients, the doctors, the hospitals and the health industry overall. But before I deal with that I wish to address some words to the Government on its attitude to the role and function of the Senate. 
Yesterday in the debates Government members stated quite categorically that they did not regard the Senate as a States House. Indeed, they wanted to abolish it, but they realised that this was some sort of Utopian dream that they could not yet achieve. They have found that the Senate is a tough nut and not being able to dissolve it they have decided to dilute it. This will happen as a result of one of the Bills which was passed yesterday. 
The role of the Senate is most pertinent to this health legislation. We are to have some pseudo-senators in the Senate. But the Senate is a States House because there are 10 senators from each State elected to it so that an equal representation from each State is maintamed. This is to protect the interests of the smaller States. 

 - Senator Poyser comes from one of those States. 
Queensland, the State which I represent, will be inimically damaged by the passage of this health legislation. The role of the Senate is most important in relation to this matter. 
The Government informed us yesterday that the Senate discusses the problem of the States in its Party room, but not all senators belong to the Government side of the Senate. Almost half of them belong to the Opposition side of the Senate. To decide State issues in the Labor Party's party room is to disfranchise every voter in the States. Is that parliamentary democracy or is it socialism? I call it socialism. There have been several precedents for senators to act on behalf of their States. I remember reading in relation to the legislation establishing the Snowy Mountains Authority that New South Wales and Victoria were going to tamper with the water of the River Murray and disadvantage South Australia. All the South Australian senators voted together to protect their State. Similarly, in relation to the Gold Mining Industry Assistance Bill, the Western Australian senators stuck together and protected Western Australia. 

-Certainly. I hope that with the health Bills all Queensland senators will vote together, as they have been clearly instructed to do, and reject them. 
By the people of Queensland. Let us not have any misconception about either of these health Bills. They do not promise people any better health. They promise worse health. They certainly promise high taxes. Everybody has spoken about the cost. The cost will come out of people's taxes. What the Bills promise is a universal and compulsory insurance scheme. In those Bills is contained the machinery for socialisation. This will be achieved by a simple process of strangulation of the private medical services that we enjoy today and it will replace them by a single huge, Government operated, bureaucratic machine, I presume something like the Post Office, of which all Government supporters would have knowledge, where one pays more and gets less. 
This high tax, ill-health Bill is the first step in destroying our private health insurance, our private general practitioner service, our private specialist service, our private hospitals, our private nursing homes and our private ancillary services. Once that happens Australia will be stuck with a fully nationalised service such as exists in the socialist countries. Then, my dear patient, when you crawl into your sick bed the Government will crawl in beside you. And the Government is not a very good bed-mate. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said, if the Government pays, the Government controls. In these new public beds a person will cease to be a patient and will become what is known as teaching material. Curiously, a lot of people do not mind being made teaching material, but they should remember also that they will be used for research purposes. 
As has been stated during these debates, many countries have tried various forms of socialised health. They are all variations on a theme and they all come from the magnificent promise of freedom from cost and worry, mainly from politicians in order to curry favour and win votes. But in not one of those countries is any one of those schemes a success. Indeed, they are failing and they are costing the people of those countries enormous amounts which they cannot bear. Why should we make the mistakes that have been made overseas? If there are any good features in their systems, certainly we should lift them and incorporate them in ours, but we have no need to practise their folly. Despite the claims of honourable members opposite, Australians are not generally dissatisfied with the health service they have at the moment. Any faults that exist lend themselves to easy correction. If we are to replace our health services and the good standard that we enjoy, we should replace them with something better, not something worse. 
Quite good. They are low only because of Government interference and because the Government has imposed vicious price fixing on them causing many of them to close. 
The Government has given many reasons why it should introduce this new scheme. It says that over one million people are not covered by private medical insurance cover. The number has been disputed, and rightly so. But even if one person is not properly covered then it is the duty of the Government to see that he is brought in out of the cold. If one per cent, 5 per cent or 10 per cent are not properly covered, then certainly it is the duty of the Government to see that they are covered, but not to tip the other 90 per cent out into the cold, which is what this Bill proposes. It will expose us all to the second-rate class of treatment that pensioners get. The Government claims that the passage of these Bills will remove the fear of the financial consequences of illnesses from the patients, but who are the patients? They are you and I. The high cost of the Government's scheme will not relieve us of any fears of the financial consequences of illness. Indeed, we will be suffering from them because we as taxpayers will have to foot the bill. It is maintained that there is social inequality in the cost of medical insurance simply because richer people can deduct their premiums from their income for tax purposes and get it more cheaply, but I would point out that the richer people pay more tax anyway and out of that tax a fair whack is taken for the provision of other health services. 
Mention was made of the unpredictability of costs and the way in which the Government will fix doctor's fees to some myth of a thing called a common fee. I would point out that the doctor's fee is not the important factor in the rising medical costs. It is the utilisation of the service that creates the high costs. When a patient goes to the doctor he does not know whether he has a little illness or a big illness. It might just involve one consultation and a prescription, but it might involve the doctor sending the patient for tests, an X-ray, a further opinion, hospitalisation or an operation. The cost depends on the usage. We cannot possibly predict medical costs. The doctor's fee is only a minor part of those costs. Doctors, of course, have been accused of being bloody-minded and money-grubbing. It has already been pointed out in this Parliament that if the Government's medical scheme is brought in doctors will earn a lot more. I would point out also that over the last 20 years or more doctors have been providing cheap services for the Government for treatment of pensioners, repatriation patients and workers compensation cases. Rather than the Government subsidising the doctors the boot is on the other foot and the doctors have been subsidising the Government. 
The Government talks about the demeaning application of the means test. I know that it is the policy of my Party to abolish the means test and I thought it was the policy of the Government to do so, but its spending in other directions, which has reduced the economy to dire straits, has not allowed it to do so. Yet at least the means test sees that services go to the areas of most need. The charge that pensioners get second-rate care is true. For the last 20 months the Government has done nothing about it. All it has to do to fix it is to put the pensioners in a medical benefits scheme and then the whole range of medical care will be open to pensioners. 
The most critical part of the Bills involves that crafty ruse whereby doctors will be gradually coerced into bulk billing the Government. When that happens it means that the Government will be paying the doctor, or in other words, the doctor will be working for the Government and will not be working for the patient. Once that happens we will all be sorry and every Australian will be disadvantaged. When the patient comes to see the doctor he will find all of a sudden that a government wedge has been driven between him and the doctor. He will find when he attends his doctor that if the doctor's fee is fixed and low the only mechanism the doctor has to earn more money is to see more patients. The patient will be scorching his pants going through the doctor's surgery, as has happened in other countries that have tried this type of scheme. The patient, by the way, has been the forgotten person in all of this scheme. When we come to think of it, the whole health edifice exists for the patient. Our medical education, medical research, administrative medicine, curative medicine and preventive medicine all exist for the patient- and one at a time, not in big groups. If we have no private medical care to balance public medical care the patient has to take it or leave it, like it or lump it. I was amused to hear other speakers say that they would fix the problems of hospitals and doctors in this country, apparently by the passage of these Bills. 
At the moment Australia is suffering from a tremendous shortage of doctors. Where are the new ones to come from? Now that the Government has nationalised the universities, Queensland has a situation where a medical student can pass his first year medicine but not be accepted into second year medicine because quota systems are rigidly applied. 
Under these new Bills doctors are not encouraged to expand the service which they give to patients in their surgeries. The doctor will be paid only for the patient's passage through the surgery. In other words he is not encouraged to provide pathology tests, X-rays, cardiographs and all those other services which save time and inconvenience to patients. 
The promise of free health care to the consumer at the point of delivery is a wild one. It is incapable of fulfilment because a promise like that immediately creates an unlimited demand. To satisfy that demand there is a Government Budget. The two cannot meet. Indeed, one goes away from the other and we wind up with dissatisfied doctors, patients and government. I recommend that we reject the Bills. 
I wish to draw the attention of the Committee to clause 171(2) which I believe is pertinent. It states: 
The regulations may provide that all or any of the provisions of this Act shall not apply to or in relation to conduct engaged in by a specified organisation or body that performs functions in relation to the marketing of primary products. 
This is of particular concern to the Australian Country Party. I seek the assurance and reassurance of the Attorney-General on the point because this proposed new sub-section could apply to things such as marketing boards and cooperatives. 
I merely point out that there is this clause which is concerned with regulations. 
Will the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation tell us how many medical officers have left the Department of Repatriation this year and taken up positions with the Department of Social Security? With the implementation of the Government's new health policy, what arrangements are proposed for the coverage of repatriation medical and hospital cases? 
I rise only to seek reassurance from the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  about the application of part of this clause. I am concerned about clause 51(l)(b). Does the AttorneyGeneral require me to read it? I think we all know what it is about. 
I wish to express concern on behalf of certain rural co-operative industries, such as those concerned with bulk handling, and various boards which feel that the legislation could be used to their disadvantage. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
1 ) Were six wards at Heidelberg Repatriation Hospital, Melbourne, recently closed; if so, was it because of a shortage of medical staff, or patients. 
Does the Government intend to open those wards to public patients. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy: Is it a fact that Australia has reserves of only approximately one week's supply of petrol and only a few days' supply of dieseline. If so, what steps is the Minister or the Government taking to alleviate the present dangerous national shortage of reserves of petrol and oil? 
I  present the following petition from 46 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
The need for Federal Government assistance to the Playgroup Association of Queensland as a part of their preschool education program. As recorded in the minutes of the Annual General Meeting of the Association held on Wednesday, 28 August 1974, the assistance sought is: 
that the Playgroup Association of Queensland be granted Sales Tax Exemption: 
that Playgroup be recognised as a necessary part of pre-school education and as such all expenses incurred by the parents be an allowable tax deduction; 
for financial support from your Government. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government and Senators in Parliament assembled will ensure that due account is taken of this petition and your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 76 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: whereas the Government of the United Kingdom, United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognised the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States- Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia by the Soviet Union, the Prime Minister of Australia has authorised the de jure recognition of this annexation. 
According to the Charter of the United Nations, the Baltic States are entitled to independence and their people to selfdetermination. 
We beg that such de jure recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister. Will the Minister confirm or deny that the Government is considering bringing in the system of optional preference voting? Would not the introduction of such a system further erode the credibility of the Prime Minister in view of his repeated statements this year that no amendments to voting procedure would be made during the term of his Government in this Parliament? I point out that the question is of importance as optional preference voting could be the first step in establishing first past the post elections, voluntary voting and the decay or our electoral systems. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Will the Minister make a statement to the Senate outlining his findings relating to his study of health insurance in Canada undertaken during his visit earlier this year. 
I present the following petition from 25 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members or  the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That inflation and its side effects pose a threat to the future of all Australians. 
That experience both in Australia and Britain indicates that the effect of inflation on food prices can be successfully offset by food Subsidies. 
That food subsidies could be financed in Australia by means of new credits or the surplus taxation funds presently available. 
That funds are far better spent in this way rather than financing wage rises as under the present system because these only produce increased costs. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Budget will make provision for subsidies on basic foods so that the cost of living can be kept down. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Agriculture. With the threat of entry of exotic diseases into Australia, concern has been expressed in primary industry that the Government is not giving sufficient priority to the establishment of the Bureau of Animal Health. When will the Director be appointed? Will he be given priority in the recruitment of staff? Does not the Minister agree that, until the Bureau is functioning properly, efforts to combat an outbreak of disease will be ineffective? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that pensioners accommodated in Queensland private nursing homes have not received the latest increase in income to help cover their costs although pensioners similarly accommodated in other States have been granted such increases? If so, what is the reason for this discrimination against pensioners in Queensland private nursing homes? Will the Minister desist from misleading the public by referring to such payments to pensioners as subsidies for private nursing homes? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Treasurer. I draw the Minister's attention to the statement made by the Acting Treasurer that the Government will, where apposite, assist building societies as they collapse. Does the Government anticipate that other building societies are likely to collapse? Is not the fact that such a statement was necessary at all a reflection of the economic disarray resulting from the implementation of Government policies? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice; 
1 ) Are five new Community Health Centres planned for the Eastern Suburbs of Sydney; if so, will the Centres be staffed by second-year resident medical officers seconded from teaching hospitals 
Do the Eastern Suburbs of Sydney enjoy a favourable health care situation; if so, is this an area of need as defined by the Government's policy. 
I present the following petition from 55 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas it was reported in 'Newsweek', 26 August, page 12, 1974, that the Australian Government agreed to send $225,000 for 'humanitarian purposes 'to black guerrilla movements fighting Rhodesians, South Africans and Portuguese in southern Africa; 
And whereas these guerrilla movements being members of Zapu, Zanu, Frelimo and Frolizi and other kindred organisations have been guilty of 96 documented acts of murder, abduction, mutilation, arson, cattle maiming and rape chiefly against other peaceful Africans between 22 December 1972 and 10 May 1974 in Rhodesia alone; 
And abducted 295 people chiefly school children from St Alberts Mission in Rhodesia as reported in the news media; 
And whereas these above mentioned and kindred organisations have been guilty of many other barbarous acts of brutality as reported in 'The Silent War' by Chris Vermaak and Reg Shaay, and the 'Real Case for Rhodesia' by Charlton Chesterton, both books widely read in Australia. 
So therefore your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate will take action to prevent material and other assistance being sent to the above mentioned organisations in southern Africa which are guilty of various acts of terrorism as such assistance would give the impression of agreement of the Australian people and the Government to the various acts of brutality which have been perpetrated by the organisations concerned. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 1 7 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for 6 months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the Prime Minister's statement yesterday that restoration of the investment allowance as a means of boosting business confidence could not be justified but that the Government would consider restoration if circumstances changed. I ask: Is the Government concerned about the present low level of confidence within the business community? Does the Government expect this situation to improve or deteriorate as a result of the Budget and other recent economic measures? Under what changed circumstances would the Government reconsider investment allowances? 
asked the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
1 ) How many medical officers have left the Department of Repatriation and Compensation this year and taken up positions with the Department of Social Security. 
) What arrangements are proposed to cover repatriation medical and hospital cases under the Government's new health policy. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. H e will recall that earlier this year the Prime Minister and some other senior Ministers were declaring that the rate of inflation was dropping and that in any case Australia had to learn to live with it. In view of the concern now being expressed about the state of the economy by the same Ministers, I ask: When did the Government first realise that spiralling inflation would lead Australia into economic chaos? Was it before the framing of last month's Budget? If so, why did the Budget not reflect that realisation and a determination to reverse the trend? 
I  present the following petition from 10 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth:- Divorce is a social and medical problem not a legal issue and be relieved accordingly. 
There must be urgent reform and the Family Law Bill must be presented to Parliament forthwith and accepted without further delay. 
Irretrievable breakdown must be the only ground with a maximum of twelve months separation. 
All Family Matters must come out of the Legal System. 
There must be No Lawyers- No Courts- And Especially- No Judges. 
D.L.R.A.'S. Proposals must be considered for the New Divorce Laws. 
1 ) The persons themselves to record their own divorce at the place where Marriages are made. 
Guidelines to be established by Mediators (Non Lawyers) to resolve difficulties particularly with children and property. 
Joint Custody and Mutual Financial Support of children where possible. 
Child Endowment to Provide Financial Support of Children when needed. 
Property disputes to be resolved as an ordinary Civil Matter. 
Adults not self supporting to be regarded as unemployed or on sickness benefit or pensions. 
Only the breach of Agreement should incur Legal Process and the Family Law Bill used as a last resort, with family courts for enforcement only. 
The motivation of lawyers in family matters is for profit only and their involvement has proved a disaster for the community since 1959. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 1310 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
Petition to register objections to the introduction of the Family Law Bill into the Australian Parliament. 
The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
We, the undersigned persons, interested in the welfare of the family life in Australia and the maintenance of community standards, desire to bring to the notice of the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled, the registration of protests to the principle contained in the Family Law Bill. 
The bases upon which the protests are founded are: 
We consider that as no well-publicised inquiry to which the Australian people were invited to submit their views was held, the proposed legislation does not reflect the views of the Australian community in a matter of vital importance. 
We consider that the proposed legislation does not support the principle laid down by United Nation's Covenant on Civil and Political Rights which states "The family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is entitled to protection by society and the State", in that: 
It makes divorce easier to obtain by removal of concept of guilt and drastic shortening of time required to prove irretrievable breakdown of marriage. 
There would appear to be no requirement that an honest attempt at reconciliation be made before a dissolution of marriage is granted. 
There would appear to be no provision for compulsory conferences as at present- it is a proven fact that many marriages have been saved at these conferences. 
The present law provides that consideration is given to the support of wife and children; it would seem that in the proposed law it will be far more difficult for the family to receive just consideration in the event of a dissolution of the marriage. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled should be informed that the attached pages 1 to 54 be considered as supporting the statements contained above as objections to the introduction of the Family Law Bill into the Australian Parliament. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The Postmaster-General will be aware that the ordinary letter postage rate increased by 43 per cent in the 8 years from 1966 to 1974. 1 ask him: Is it a fact that the Royal Commission into the Post Office projected that a 15 per cent increase per year in ordinary letter postage charges would be necessary for the next 3 years to cover increased wage and operating costs? How then can the Government justify the recent increase from 7c to 10c, a 43 per cent increase in one hit? 
Can the Minister for Agriculture assure the Senate that the rural industry inquiry will not delay consideration by the Industries Assistance Commission of an application on behalf of Western Australian new land farmers for the continuation of the superphosphate bounty? Has the Government requested the Industries Assistance Commission to report on that application before the bounty ends on 31 December? Will the new inquiry include a general review of the bounty? 
I preface my question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, by saying that the Minister for Social Security made repeated election promises before both the 1972 and 1974 Federal elections that under his administration Queensland would receive $22m for health services. So far Queensland has not received one penny of this money. Will the Minister please indicate when this promise will be honoured? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the Government's adoption of Opposition policy in the economic measures announced on Sunday and to the taxation cuts to be announced by the Prime Minister tonight. I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether the Budget, not yet 2 months old, failed to arrest Australia's economic decline? Do the new measures amount to a repudiation of the Government's economic strategy? 
I present the following petition from 47 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. 
However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill, 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for six months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of Queensland: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That whereas our constitutional parliamentary democracy was clearly developed as a Federation to preserve for all time to the Australian people their cherished right to live as free men and women, enjoying complete liberty of worship, assembly, speech movement and the communication of knowledge and information, 
And whereas our existing Australian Flag and our national anthem, 'God Save The Queen', are perpetual reminders of these hard-won freedoms and of the wise British principle of the division of power, so well reflected in our own Australian Constitution with its careful separation of powers as between the Crown and Commonwealth Parliament, the Senate, the State Parliaments, the GovernorGeneral and State Governors, and the Independent Courts of Justice, 
And whereas all such rights, liberties, heritage, advancement and prosperity, etc., are of no avail if our Armed Forces are unprepared or incapable of repelling invasion of our shores or withstanding our military threats, 
So therefore must all these things be accorded the highest national concern and priority. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
The most rapid, efficient and largest possible expansion of all branches of our Defence Forces, and greatest possible strengthening and extending of defence treaties and security arrangements with our traditional friends and allies, 
The right of every Australian citizen to vote at a national referendum or Senate or Federal Elections for the retention of our present Australian Flag and equally of our national anthem, 'God Save The Queen', before any government or other body can attempt to substitute either a new flag or anthem, and a similar voting right for the choice of any official National Song to play on international occasions. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Is it a fact that the 5-year sugar agreement between the Commonwealth and Queensland governments has expired? Is it a fact that with the fruit and vegetable canning season commencing there is now no Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee price structure upon which stable prices for canned fruit and vegetables can be guaranteed? Will there be a new agreement? If so, when will it commence? Does the Minister agree that the present position is contrary to the Government's professed desire for income stability in agriculture? 
I too rise to support the amendment moved in respect of the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill 1974. The issues have been covered most completely and it was most heartening to hear our only Aboriginal senator issue a damning refutation of some of the charges that have been laid against the Queensland Premier and the Queensland Government today as being somewhat less than the truth. The facts of the matter are simple. Queensland has approximately onethird of the Aborigines in Australia and for many years has received approximately one-third of the revenue granted to the States for the care of Aborigines. The current Federal Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  allocated one-third of this amount to Queensland this time. This amount was confirmed in writing by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  and his Department and negotiations got so far as inter-officer consultation. 
Then the Queensland Government refused to go along with the Federal Minister's plan to take over the Aboriginal reserves in Queensland. In what appeared to be a fit of pique the Minister excised that portion of the allocation that he could excise, the $3. 19m we are talking about now, from the grant to Queensland and thereupon allocated that amount, $3. 1 9m, to the other States. Queensland remonstrated about this and the Minister, apparently realising the extent of his act of discrimination against the Queensland Aborigines, suddenly decided that he could pull $3. 19m out of a trust fund and that is what he is attempting to do now. I presume that the money will come from the $9m he failed to spend on Aboriginal housing last year. It cannot be described as anything less than an act of discrimination against Queensland 's Aborigines because they are the ones who will suffer. The Minister proposed to excise the 16 Aboriginal reserves from Queensland and turn them into 16 separate States. Imagine the vastness of the administrative problems that would create, particularly if white men are not allowed to go on these areas, as was proposed. We would have our own 
Berlin Wall type Australian Labor Party apartheid set-up in Australia. This, of course, was the issue which the Queensland Premier stood on in rejecting the Minister's proposals- and, I think rightly so. 
The charge that was laid earlier that the Queensland Premier would not speak to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has no basis. The Premier refused to talk to the Minister only about the Woodward report which, of course, recommended that this be done. I was fortunate lately to have been appointed a member of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory and sent to help write new legislation for selfgovernment in the Northern Territory. The Committee visited many of the Federal Aboriginal reserves in the Territory. Of course, it had a lot of plans that it put to the Aborigines and asked how they would like to be represented in the new Northern Territory legislative assembly and sought thenviews on different electorates, different candidates and different methods of electing members. To a man on all those reserves the Aborigines rejected those plans saying: 'That would be discriminating in favour of the black man. If you discriminate in favour of us you are discriminating against the non-Aborigines '. 
Banyili, Roper River, Nhulunbuy, Yirrkala, Maningrida, Umbakumba and plenty of other places. I was proud of the Aborigines for the way they decided that they just wanted to be Australians. They even said: 'We have a body like you, we have blood like you. We are Australians and we want to be treated as Australians. We do not want to be discriminated in favour of or against. ' On the subject of discrimination in Queensland, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and another senator in this chamber have said that Queensland provides an outstanding example of racism. I point out that Aborigines can move to and fro on those reserves quite freely. The arrangements are completely voluntary. They seek shelter on the reserves. For an Aborigine, going on to an Aboriginal reserve is something like joining a club. There are rules to follow if one joins any club or association, just as there are rules in this Parliament and rules for belonging to the Australian Labor Party. If one wants to be in those sorts of associations one has to obey the rules. I might say that I think the rules allowing one to belong to the ALP are a lot more stringent than any that apply to Aborigines in Queensland. 
Which hospitals are condemned? 
I have never heard of that one. 
It is not condemned. 
-It is licensed. What has that to do with Aborigines? 
I have seen the fire brigade report. 
-A11 right. The honourable senator had to revert to arguments on other subjects. That certainly shows the weakness in his argument. 
I mentioned earlier that the Minister had actually signed that he would deliver this money but in a fit of pique he refused it. 
It is in correspondence. I can provide the Minister with the quote from the Queensland Hansard report if he wants it. 
Well,  Mr Minister,  try your letter. Finally I invite the Minister to send a joint parliamentary committee to Queensland to look at these places, to read the relevant Act and to see whether there is anything discriminatory going on in Queensland. I am sure he would find, to his joy, that Queensland has the best administration for Aborigines and that they are happy. Tonight we heard  Senator Bonner  speak in glowing terms of the Queensland Administration. I assure the Minister that he and his delegation would be most welcome to go around any of the reserves in Queensland. I support the amendment. 
I rise to speak in support of the amendment to defer the Family Law Bill 1974 until the autumn sitting. I am pleased that  Senator Gietzelt  was able to correct the time relationship involved in the amendment and I also would like to reassure him and other honourable senators that the opposition to the Bill is not as vehement or as much like a brick wall as he thinks it is. We seek merely to amend the Bill. I point out that by now this Bill is a grandparent Bill. This is the third time it has been brought into the Senate and each time it has been extensively amended. Now the sins of the grandparents are being visited on the grandchild. The Bill is to be amended another 92 times. I think there are another 13 amendments plus another 2 amendments. As was pointed out this afternoon by  Senator Scott,  the Bill is much more pot-bellied than it was when it was originally presented. This is a good thing because there are many good features in the Bill. 
Honourable senators must remember that the Bill was brought in by a socialist. We are permitted to regard it with suspicion because often socialist legislation is long on promise and short on delivery. I must say it has often been a matter of much wonder to me that 2 young people should be expected to marry and live together for the rest of their lives when they are in the grip of a passion that renders them insane. Honourable senators must confess that love is an insanity, a delightful insanity, and it does exist. It was disquieting to hear earlier in the debate that in the marriage situation men are bad for women but women are good for men. I was relieved to hear it. I suspected it for some time, and we have been taking advantage of it. Perhaps we owe women a debt that has to be settled now. 
The affairs of men and women are no simple matter. Indeed, they are the most complex matter in the world to deal with and they are not to be trifled with lightly. They involve the driving force of nature which perpetuates the species. All people, as was pointed out here today, I think, from the most primitive to the most civilised, have evolved the most complicated set of mores and rules with regard to sex, marriage and the procreation of children, and the religions have been quick to exploit these fertile fields. I point out to the Senate that most of the major wars in history have been fought over love between men and women or the want of it. All our famous operas, books, poems and songs are mainly about love so we are considering legislation about no little thing. We are considering legislation relating to a big thing. 
We have built up a code of religious, moral and ethical standards surrounding sex, marriage and the upbringing of children. It has developed over many centuries and it is based on security for mothers, particularly during their child bearing period and all the nuances that go with it, and on providing care for the children. No creature in nature is so dependent on its parents as the human baby. If we are to change our standards we want to change them for something better, not something worse. This is why we want to be careful about this Bill. This is why we want further consideration of it by the Senate, by the community at large and by all the people intersted in it. The present Bill purports to represent this consideration but it has sent shivers through many sections of the community, particularly the religious sections. 
The advent of the pill and other advanced means of contraception has emancipated our women in a most unprecedented way and it has altered our outlook on the man/woman relationship. In emancipating women it has brought them to a position where they are able to philander in much the same way as men have been able to do always. They have learned this recently, I think to their sorrow, and they are beginning to learn the truth of the old Latin dictum of post coitus homines tristus est, which roughly translated means 'After intercourse all people are sad'. It has engendered this permissive society in which we now live. We see trial marriages. We see communal living which is aided and abetted by the huge social welfare payments that are passed about now. As a practising doctor I am coming to the conclusion rapidly that in this situation the only real difference between rape and seduction is technique. Until recently our way of life has been support for the free enterprise system, the family unit and individual freedom. These 3 principles are being altered remarkably now. This Government intends to change the free enterprise system to a public enterprise system. This sort of system has been tried all round the world and has failed lamentably. 
No. Admittedly, before, under the capitalist free enterprise system we all shared blessings, perhaps unequally but they were blessings. Under the new system it looks as though we are all going to share misery equally. The family is being attacked. Particularly it is being attacked by inflation which destroys the means of exchanging the fruits of our labour. Many of the mothers who would ennoble our families are being forced out to work for money. The basic security of the family is now gone. No longer can a father afford to clothe, house and feed a family out of his earnings, so the wife has to help. I blame inflation for a lot of this. But suppose the socialists achieve their goal and socialise the place. This afternoon  Senator Scott  tried to peep into the future through the eyes of another person who may not have been that inaccurate. 
I would like to tell the Senate about family life under the socialist system. In the earlier part of this year I was privileged to pay a fortnight 's visit to the People's Republic of China and during that time there was the Christian festival of Easter. Even though it is a movable feast it was not celebrated in China as there are no churches in that country. There is a little bit of background information that honourable senators should know in order to understand family life in that country. Except for a few racial minorities that exist around the country- there are 42 million people making up those racial minorities but they represent only 6 per cent of the populationall religion in the socialist State is forbidden by law. God is forbidden. Buddha is forbidden and Mohammed is forbidden. Not only is all religion forbidden; it is ridiculed as a device of the capitalist. It is pictured to the people as either hopeless faith or faithless hope. There is a policy in China that the woman is equal to a man. I think that one Government senator was referring this afternoon to this equality that socialists feel is so important. But is she equal to the man? China has this policy, it appeared to me that all that it meant was that the burdens of being a woman were added to by the burdens of being a man and part of the workforce. I would point out that 62 per cent of the work force in China is women because most of the men are in the armies which police the country because being a socialist country it has to be a police state. 
The Army there polices the country like a police force, senator. In China there is a totally planned economy with directions coming down as edicts from above. Communes, work brigades, and production teams are given their production goals from the hierarchy. If a woman is a member of a production team, which they all are when they are old enough, becomes pregnant then, firstly, that reduces her income, and secondly, it reduces the income of the production team. The psychology there is that the people should try to deny the right of women to become pregnant. I might add that once a woman is 7 months pregnant she is allowed off the night shift, which is something, and when she has the baby she is allowed to feed it but at 56 days she has to wean it and then the child is taken off to a nursery and the mother goes back to work. She is allowed to visit the child on Sunday, which is not our idea of family life. In China families grow apart, particularly as under socialism there is a direction of labour. The father may be sent to one part of the country to work and the mother to another part, so family life is disrupted. On the occasions when a child is allowed home, the child comes home not only for perhaps the joys of whatever family reunion there is but also to criticise the parents to ascertain whether they are backsliding against the Party line. Husbands criticise wives and vice versa, children criticise parents and vice versa and neighbours criticise friends. This is the means of maintaining discipline in the country. This may be very well for the people of China. I would not denigrate them at all. I found them a wonderful people. I enjoyed their company; I hope they enjoyed mine. I do not think that it is the sort of tiling that the people of Australia want, but I think it is the sort of thing that this Government is aiming for. I do not think we will accept it. I wonder whether this Government thinks that it can stop somewhere along the way to socialism. It cannot do that. Once you implement socialist policies it must follow like night follows day that you produce a police state in the nation because you must direct labour. 
I am talking about family life in a socialist state. In China marriage is easy, as the honourable senator who interjected wants; divorce is easy; abortion is easy. The registry offices there do not even have a ceremony. They do not have wedding celebrations. There are no parties in China. There no holidays in China. I might add as an interpolation that there are trade unions in China but they exist to ensure that production teams meet their production goals. I thought that perhaps some of our trade unions might take a leaf from their book. When a marriage is dissolved in China there is no problem about property settlement simply because there is no private property there- no private cars, no private houses, no private land, no private businesses. So there are no difficulties in that respect. When it comes to the custody of children there is no problem at all because the state looks after them anyway. So China is without problems in the marriage field. I have seen going through this place over the past almost 2 years a whole pattern of legislation that is geared to socialism and the control of the people by the state as exists in China where the interests of the people are in all respects subservient to the state. 
He did not talk about that. I agree with  Senator Carrick  who said that far more important than this Bill to make divorce easier is that we should introduce a means to help sustain the whole system of marriage. I think premarital and marital advice is important. Young people want instruction in such knotty matters as insurance whether it be health, personal or property, budgeting, taxation banking, existing welfare services, family planning. 
As a matter of fact, if any couples come wanting advice on sex they are probably better advised not to get married because it shows they are not helping each other. They want to know about educational opportunities both for children and adults, and also investment although I think that if this Government keeps going the way it has been much longer they will not need much instruction in investment. I was apprehensive when I heard it promulgated by the  chairman  of the committee that reviewed this legislation that he foresees the eventual elimination of maintenance and the treatment of maintenance by the Department of Social Security which would finance it in the same way as it finances unemployment and sickness benefits and other disabilities. I see this as an undesirable goal to be aiming for and something along the lines of the vision seen by the lady to whom  Senator Scott  referred of this afternoon. I cannot see the Australian people accepting a proposition like that. 
I have a concern about the transfer of guilt from the divorce proceeding into the settlement proceeding. I agree with  Senator Carrick  that I think this is just taking things out of one pocket and putting them into another. Things will be just as bitter and just as difficult and will need the same sorts of investigation, evidence and every other thing. Divorce may not be bitter but I think that settlement will be a problem. I do agree with  Senator Baume  that an additional ground for divorce is warranted- that of intolerable conductparticularly if an urgent separation is required. I am disturbed that 12 months separation should be the sole ground for proof of irretrievable breakdown but I do agree that all the counselling facilities should be settled outside the court. 
There are many good things in the Bill which I hope we do not see wasted if it is implemented. I do agree that it will alter our whole outlook on the institution of marriage and family life but I think we must have the courage to face up to that. When I married it was for life and it was a contract for ever. I think that if ever I come back to earth I will have to go looking for my wife again.  Senator Missen  answers all of this on the grounds that marriage is a popular and a congenial institution and is strong enough to overcome all these disabilities. I am inclined to agree with him. I hope that the people who are in favour of bringing in this Bill willy nilly will see that this next little gap is just a final step to bring about a whole change on our outlook on marriage and divorce because the Bill is a divorce Bill that comes in at the point of break up of marriage. Although the provisions of the Bill have been extended by the 3 lots of amendments on the 3 occasions it has been submitted and debated and now covers a lot more ground, it still can hardly be called a family law Bill. I would not be prepared to argue that but I would want the supporters of the Bill to realise the benefits that can be gained by just a shade more consideration being given to the legislation. You never know, many more good things might show up before it is represented in the autumn session. 
I present the following petition from 63 citizens of Queensland: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the reduction of the allowable deduction of education expenses under section 82J of the Income Tax Assessment Act from $400 to $ 1 50 is 50 below the 1 956-57 figure. 
That this reduction will impose hardships on many parents who have children attending school, whether non government or government; and particularly on parents with more than one child at school. 
That this reduction will further restrict the freedom available to parents to make a choice of school for their children. 
That some parents who have chosen to send their children to an non government school will have to withdraw their children and send them to government schools already over crowded and understaffed. 
That the parents to benefit most relatively from educational income tax deductions, in the past and even more in the future, are the parents of children in government schools and this has a divisive effect in the Australian community. 
That parents should be encouraged by the Australian Government to exercise freedom of choice of the type of school they wish for their children. The proposed reduction means an additional financial penalty is imposed on parents who try to exercise this choice and discourages them from making an important financial contribution to Australian education over and above what they contribute through taxation. 
That an alternative system, a tax rebate system, could be adopted as being more equitable for all parents with children at school. 
To compensate for the losses that will follow from the proposed reduction and to help meet escalating educational costs faced by all families your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should take immediate steps to restore educational benefits to parents, at least at the 1 973- 1 974 level either by increasing taxation deductions or through taxation rebates. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. In view of the reported high intake of Army recruits in the September quarter because of unemployment, has the Minister for Defence sought, by way of advertisement or statement, to attract recuits to the Services from the record number of retrenched workers? If not, will he do so as a means of providing jobs for some of these unfortunate people and for some of the 250,000 school leavers about to come on to the labour market? Are the high numbers of recruits an embarrassment to the Government in view of the low priority it places on defence? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Government decided that reference to imported inflation is not being accepted by the people and is, therefore, a useless piece of propaganda? In view of the claim of the Leader of the Government yesterday that Australia has a much higher rate of inflation than New Zealand because New Zealand does not have an upper House to obstruct legislation, I ask: Is it not a fact that the Government is so concerned for its survival that it uses any excuse to camouflage its inability to control the inflation it has caused? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the Prime Minister undertake to commission an inquiry into the effect of inflation on personal and company income taxes; if so, will the Government shelve its proposals to introduce unearned income and capital gains taxes until the inquiry's report is received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Is he aware that thousands of tertiary education students will be unable to gain holiday employment this year because of the recession in business and industry? Has a survey been conducted to gauge the severity of the problem and, if so, what did the survey show? Will the Government consider some form of assistance to the many students who without work now will be forced to discontinue courses because they cannot afford accommodation and sustenance? 
The Minister for Agriculture already has received, or will receive, telegrams from the fruit industry on the problem created by the fact that technically the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee no longer exists because the sugar agreement has lapsed. Is it a fact that because of this the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee was unable to meet earlier this month to set minimum prices for pineapples for canning and for berry fruits, and that meetings to set minimum prices for apricots and other canning fruits have been postponed? Will the 
Minister urgently consult with the Minister for Northern Development to ensure that the expired agreement is continued until it is possible for a new agreement to be announced so that the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee can continue and set the now overdue minimum prices? 
-I rise to lend my Party's support for these 3 Bills. I wish to say a few words about them and will take the Bills in turn following the order used by  Senator Guilfoyle.  I support the remarks she made about the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill. I support the increase of 5c in the subsidy to bring it to 30c but I point out that this is still only a small amount of money and would not provide a very big meal. It is only a partial help and the Meals and Wheels organisation provides the rest. The meals are delivered only once a day and never on a Sunday and the facilities in nearly all centres are booked out at the moment. There is plenty of room for improvement in this field of operation. In his second reading speech on the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  indicated his intention to extend the services further and to provide such things as housekeeping, shopping, sitting, linen and handyman services. He said that the States have made progress in supplying these areas but that he is far from satisfied with their growth. I point out that these services are of an intimate nature to the local areas and this really is not a matter in which the Australian Government can come in and help all that much. This is really a State or local government affair, or even a private enterprise affair, and those people can answer for the type of services they provide. I think that the food guide put out by the Department of Social Security for the Meals on Wheels organisation is more a matter for the Department of Health. It gives people an indication of the type of food wanted for home delivered meals. 
I refer now to the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Bill. The subsidy in this instance is given to the homes. It is being increased from $2 for $ 1 to $4 for $ 1 . That is not really double although it sounds like it. In this instance I think it would be better to pay the subsidy to the patients rather than to the homes as it is now known that the religious and charitable institutions are in favour of deficit financing. I do not think that is a very good scheme because it will mean that they will lose their autonomy and wind up under government control. It would be a bad thing to have a huge Federal bureaucracy running these homes in the cities. The Minister said that organisations have been delaying commencement of their building projects. He cited various reasons for their doing this, such as that they do not have the economies of scale or that they might not have the necessary expertise. I suggest that Government interference has been the reason for the delay and that there is a feeling of uncertainty for the future as to their method of financing, particularly in regard to the amount of the subsidy. 
Through all these Bills the Government, I am sure not through any ulterior or bad motives, is promising care for all people. I do not think the Commonwealth Government can possibly do that. I believe it should rely on the help of other agencies such as the State and local governments and private enterprise. The Commonwealth is stepping into a huge area. I feel it will run into difficulties in combining aged and disabled people because they are 2 separate areas. A huge rehabilitation aspect is involved in the care of disabled people. Many disabled people are younger and will not be happy if housed with old people. The rehabilitation section of such institutions requires different staff, different equipment, different facilities and a different design altogether for the buildings. The people to whom the subsidy applies in these homes receive a very good subsidy if they are pensioner patients, but the Bill does not provide for non-pensioner patients. I think that non-pensioner patients could quite easily be included under such a scheme as, say, the special account in the medical insurance funds. I notice that the legislation provides for at least one staff member to be on duty all the time, but the Minister did not mention whether he was to be a trained staff member. If you are dealing with aged or disabled people I think that you should have a trained staff member on duty all the time. This is only a minor point but I think that it is worth mentioning. 
The Minister mentioned that local government bodies would appear to be well situated to enter the aged persons' homes field. I draw the attention of the Minister to the Commonwealth Statistician's report on nursing homes and convalescent homes which shows quite conclusively that private enterprise institutions can look after these people at a vastly cheaper rate than the Commonwealth Government does. It is an area in which private enterprise could well come to the rescue of the Government and take an awful load off its shoulders. The provision of such services as taking people for a drive, doing special shopping for them or taking them to theatres or sporting functions and things of that nature cannot be managed by a huge government department. 
I note also that the Aged Persons Hostels Bill and the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Bill, as well as being companion Bills, are also related to the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act and the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act. This may be a good thing from a co-ordination point of view. I point out again that these matters fall into entirely separate areas. They encroach into the whole field of health and would be better off administered by the Department of Health rather than by the Department of Social Security. Further on in his second reading speech the Minister mentions that the co-ordination of the whole of this hostels and homes policy is awaiting the report of the committee of inquiry into aged persons' housing. This matter again falls into an area entirely separate from social security. 
As far as the Aged Persons' Hostels Bill is concerned, I would mention again that it has been shown quite clearly that private enterprise can manage these hostels much more cheaply than can the Government. I was not in the chamber to hear whether a change was proposed in the amount of the subsidy, but a subsidy of $13,000 a bed to cover the whole of the capital cost of putting up these structures would not be nearly enough. I think in his second reading speech the Minister mentioned that the subsidy is to be increased to $9,000 a bed, but that is far too small an amount and it does not take into account the provision of the land on which the buildings are constructed. 
Once again the Minister has noted that there has been a delay in organisations using the funds made available. I would point out that that delay is brought about by a feeling of insecurity about the future, by the Government's interference and by the fear of government control. Once again I urge the Government not to allow the religious and charitable institutions to press on with their scheme for deficit financing. It cannot be successful. I think that the Government could be well advised to include in these hostels the provision of day care facilities for people who need looking after just during the day or who need rehabilitation, physiotherapy and other help to make them better. Such patients can be dropped off by their relatives and picked up after work. There are many young disabled people now who could well take advantage of this kind of service, but they would need medical supervision and appraisal from time to time to see whether the facility suited them. I am pleased to join with  Senator Guilfoyle  in supporting these Bills because they are intended to provide help in an area which needs a lot of assistance. However, I would warn the Government against trying to bite off more than it can chew. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the Prime Minister's statement at the Premiers Conference last June that the Government would restrain its own spending as a means of containing inflation, I ask: Has the Government honoured this undertaking? If so, will the Leader of the Government in the Senate request the Prime Minister to prepare and table a list of expenditure cuts or deferments since that time? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Were a sizable quantity of Australian Army uniforms labelled 'Made in China' landed at Darling Harbour, Sydney, recently. 
Are a large number of Australian Army uniforms marked 'Made in Japan', to the value of several million dollars, being held in Australian Army Ordnance Depots. 
Are a number of Australian clothing factories which were previously engaged in making uniforms now idle. 
Is there a possibility of Army Inspection Service personnel being made redundant due to lack of work. 
-The Bill we are discussing purports to move certain discriminatory clauses from the current Queensland legislation. I have read the Bill and I have read the second reading speech of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh).  I find they are full of deceit and duplicity and that the Minister himself has made a subversive use of words by using half truths and distortions. The Bill is out of date already but, more particularly, it ignores the wishes of the Aborigines and the islanders in Queensland. The Queensland Act came into force in 1971. It is important to note that it applies only to those Aborigines - 
All right. The important thing is that the Queensland Act applies only to Aborigines and islanders who live in the communities. There are about 30,000 Aborigines in Queensland and only 10,000 live in the communities. The Act has been worked out in consultation with the Aborigines and the islanders. Despite what has been said here this afternoon the councils are fully and freely elected. One important point about those councils is that they are statutory authorities. There are frequent consultations between the councils, the Department and the Premier of Queensland. The Act has always been amended in accordance with the wishes of the councils. The Premier has offered to amend or abolish any clauses which it may be deserved to be amended or abolished on the advice of the councils, which is vastly different from how things were when Labor was administering the Act which was known to the Aborigines as the 'Dog Act'. Under that Act mail was censored. 
The situation of the Aborigines and islanders in Queensland is one of quiet development which is both harmonious and progressive. The administration is enlightened, unlike the current Federal administration. There is co-operation and consultation all the time. The Act is not designed as an instrument of racial supremacy, bigotry, hatred or discrimination. The Minister's second reading speech was really just a word salad. The Minister made 7 charges against what he said were discriminatory clauses in the Queensland Act. Firstly, he claimed that the Act authorised management of property of Aborigines and Islanders without their consent. Secondly, he said that there is a prohibition of liberty of movement to enter a reserve. Thirdly, he said there is an absence of legal representation before an appeal from Aboriginal and islander courts. Fourthly, he said there is compulsory labour in the communities. Fifthly, he claimed that all communities have to conform to a code of conduct. Sixthly, he said there is a discriminatory right of certain people to enter the premises of Aborigines and islanders without their consent. The seventh point he made was that there are discriminatory terms of conditions of employment. I should like to deal with the charges in turn. I should like to deal, firstly, with the management of property without consent. This has always been on a voluntary basis. The Minister has noted that on 1 November it was spelled out in the legislation that management of property was to be on a voluntary basis. In the past, management of property has always been undertaken only when Aborigines were incapable of managing their own affairs. But it has always been done with the agreement of the councils. Even now, an Aboriginal or an islander has only to signify his wish to terminate the management of his affairs and it is granted. 
Concerning the prohibition of liberty to enter a reserve, this is the most important provision that the community people wish preserved. It is the Aboriginal and islander councils which have complete control of access into their communities. To prevent access is one of the main desires of these people because they want to keep people off the reserves who would cause disharmony, which is probably the reason why they sent that telegram today- the one that refers to keeping the Minister off reserves. To remove this right to prevent access would be to ignore the wishes of the councils altogether. 
The present Federal Minister was at the conference of the councils in the north in Februarythe Premier of Queensland was there- when this wish was expressed and it was granted by the Premier. He has since stated that he and the director of his Department consulted privately and singly with the councillors and found that they all had unanimously reversed this decision. I am not surprised at such unaninimity of opinion under such circumstances, because he should know that, if he does put an Aborigine under duress like that, the Aborigine is certain to tell him what he thinks he wants him to know, because that is one of the Aboriginal's characteristics. The people of the communities regard it as their traditional tribal right to control access to the communities. 
I did not hear what you asked me. I challenge the Minister to ask Les Stewart, who is the  chairman  of one of the councils, and Tanu Nona, the Islander  chairman,  to come down here, address the Senate and tell us what they think. 
The third charge is that there is an absence of legal representation before and appeal from Aboriginal and Islander courts. The communities have a simple life style and most offences are of a minor nature, a misdemeanour nature. They often involve alcohol, and many are related to the Aborigines' or Islanders' own tribal laws and customs. They bear little relation to our laws or our sense of justice. But the Aboriginal courts actively discourage legal representation in the early stages of a case, in much the same way as we operate our industrial courts. So there is nothing really unusual about that. Aboriginal and Islander offenders on minor offences are better cared for in an informal setting and before the elders of their tribe who are familiar with them and the circumstances of the offence. It would be a misdirection of justice to force, by laws, our lawyers into this simple setting. For more serious cases Commonwealth and State Aboriginal legal aid already exists and is used where necessary. This is nothing but a mischievous charge. The fourth charge of compulsory labour is soon dismissed because it does not occur and is not referred to anywhere in the Act. 
That charge was compulsory labour- nothing to do with award rates. The fifth charge was that the dwellers on the communities have to conform to a code of conduct. There are Aboriginal reserves in almost every town in Queensland, and where the Minister in his speech and in the Bill refers to 'reserves' he should really use the word 'communities'. But the code of conduct that is to be observed in the communities is one that is determined by the councils. The Aborigines regard these communities as their homes, and it is perfectly normal for them to require a code of conduct, just as we do in our homes and just as we do in the Senate with our own Standing Orders. 
The sixth charge concerns the right to enter premises. This is allowable only with the permission of the dweller or with a warrant, just as happens outside the communities. It may be pertinent to note here that under the present Customs Act customs officers can enter anyone's premises at any time without permission or notice. The seventh charge referred to the discriminatory terms of employment. The Minister stated that Aborigines are paid less if they are aged, infirm or slow workers. What would he have us do with them? Give them all the sack? If they are aged or infirm they could possibly qualify for an invalid pension, but if they are slow workers does the Minister want us to put them off and have them qualify for unemployment? It is a means of encouraging Aborigines. If an Aboriginal is doing a regular job, he or she is paid award wages in Queensland. In addition, a training allowance is paid where an Aborigine is learning a job. Far from being an act of discrimination against Aborigines, the Queensland Act discriminates in favour of them, which is in accord with the Schedule of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. Paragraph 4 of article 1 of Part 1 states: 
Special measures taken for the sole purpose of securing adequate advancement of certain racial or ethnic groups or individuals requiring such protection as may be necessary in order to ensure such groups or individuals equal enjoyment or exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms shall not be deemed racial discrimination provided, however, that such measures do not as a consequence lead to the maintenance of separate rights for different racial groups and that they shall not be continued after the objectives for which they were taken have been achieved. 
The Queensland Act does this, and it does it effectively and with the active co-operation of the Aborigines and the Islanders. In Queensland Aborigines and Islanders are free to enter and leave the communities at any time, at their own wish and according to their own rules. An Aborigine or an Islander cannot be moved from a community without his consent. The councils control access. They control most legal problems. They have control over liquor- the hours during which it is served, and what is sold. This has greatly reduced the problem that Aboriginesand Islanders, to some extent- have with alcohol. 
And metho. The profits from the sale of houses, from the sale of Aboriginal creations that are sold in a shop in George 
Street, Brisbane now, and from the sale of produce from cattle stations, such as the one at Woorabinda, which are run by Aborigines, are all paid into an Aboriginal trust fund which is used for both Aborigines and Islanders. There is no government profiteering on this fund. It is a trust fund like any regular trust fund. Wet canteens are established only after local option polls have been held, and the profits from these canteens go into the same trust fund. 
Any controls exercised by the director are no more than the controls exercised by the director of local government in any State. They all have the power to override their local government, just as  Mr Bryant  has the power to override the local government in Canberra. Shortly in Queensland the Aboriginal and Islander Commission will be formed. It will have a direct policy-forming function, which is some measure showing the degree of advancement reached in Queensland. I do not think that it exists in any other State; certainly it does not exist in the Federal sphere. Where are disasters in Queensland? Where are the starving children, the riots, the demonstrations and the staff walking off the communities? They are not in Queensland. But these things exist in other places. They are in evidence amongst the Aborigines under the care of the Commonwealth Minister. He is the Minister who walks with radicals, yet he has them camping on his doorstep outside Parliament House for weeks, abusing him. I wonder whether he has read the scathing report by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs concerning his own Yirrkala people and their starving children. Right at this minute the Torres Strait Islanders are living in fear of this Federal Government concerning their borders. They do not want any change. They do not want to be split up, because they consist of several ethnic groups. They could be shattered by one Federal stroke of the pen which would move their border down to 10 degrees south, passing right through Thursday Island. 
The Commonwealth at the moment is handing out money to Aborigines without requiring any civic responsibility of them at all. This is devastating and destroying many of the Aboriginal people. Yet this dauntless disciple of racial discrimination, with his Department divided, his radicals ridiculing him and the children under his care starving, presumes to discredit Queensland's Aborigines and Islanders, the Queensland legislation and the Queensland Premier with a Bill that is nothing more than deceit and duplicity. Has he not noticed the vote of the Aborigines in the recent Northern Territory election? They did not vote Labor. Labor did not gain one seat in that election. Did he not notice that the Aboriginal candidate, Hyacinth Tungatalum, who was elected, is a member of the Country-Liberal Party in the Northern Territory? Has he not noticed that the only Aboriginal candidate in next Saturday's Queensland State election is standing for the National Party under the leadership of Joh Bjelke-Petersen? I support the amendment that will be moved by  Senator Rae  to leave out all words after 'order of the day' and to insert:  for the first sitting day in March 1 975 to enable the Government to consult with the Aboriginal people living in the reserve communities in the State of Queensland and their elected councils and other bodies and further to ascertain by poll taken within those communities the wishes of those people in relation to future restrictions upon the right of entry to those communities. 
Like  Senator Bonner,  I would rather go much further and reject the Bill altogether. However, the Opposition has agreed on the procedure proposed by  Senator Rae  and I support it. I realise that the Minister has not had a chance to reply, but he will get an opportunity in the debate on the foreshadowed amendment. Alternatively, he will get his chance to speak if the motion to adjourn is defeated. 
Motion (by  Senator Chaney)  proposed: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Prime Minister on 28 October 1 974 make several predictions on the economy and unemployment: if so. did he forecast that inflation and unemployment would continue for the next 6 months, both at the present levels and not higher, and then the situation would improve in both areas. 
Are these predictions based on the same source of information that led the Prime Minister to tell the nation in May that inflation was dropping and would be down to 8 per cent by the end of 1 974. 
What new measures are proposed to cause a marked improvement in the economy at the end of the next six months. 
I merely wish to speak on the Nursing Homes Assistance Bill which will authorise the Federal Government to enter directly into agreement with religious and charitable nursing homes to allow these nursing homes to operate at a loss with the Federal Government meeting these losses by so-called deficit financing. The Bill therefore is nothing more than an instrument for socialisation. It is a further example of the duplicity of this Government and of the fact that it is behaving in a contradictory fashion. I say it is an example of duplicity because it uses the plight of 'those in the community, particularly the aged who are in need of specialised care and treatment' to achieve its purpose. It is contradictory because this Bill will establish a system of openended government financing, the system which was used to vilify the voluntary health insurance funds in the Government's fight to socialise health. In addition, this Bill proposes direct financing of nursing homes thus by-passing the State health departments. This represents another attempt to weaken the authority of State governments with the eventual goal of their total destruction. 
On top of those things, the Federal Government is trying to use religious and charitable institutions as an instrument to destroy the private nursing homes. It will do so, firstly, by allowing the religious and charitable nursing homes to operate at a loss and then picking up the tab, and secondly, by subsidising the religious and charitable institutions to buying the private nursing homes. This again is achieving the Federal Government's socialist policy by splitting the nursing home industry right up the centre. Having been in the business myself, I know that the subsidy the Government will have to provide will be an escalating subsidy. The Government eventually will squeal at the size of this subsidy and start a program of propaganda against these institutions, a program that will cause the taxpayers to kick against the churches. The people will be brainwashed to question these heavy subsidies. The churches will find that they have sold their souls and their freedom, and their nursing homes will be taken over by the Government. This is socialisation. The religious and charitable nursing homes pay no taxes, including payroll tax and sales tax, yet this Government proposes to allow them to charge no fees. Where will this leave the private nursing homes? 
This is an iniquitous Bill. Its provisions will crush the private nursing homes and at the same time will swallow the religious and charitable nursing homes. The Bill ignores the views of the State Ministers for Health as expressed at their recent conference. It was their view that if any system of deficit funding was to be introduced it should be handled through the States. The Bill provides that all the work involved will be done by the Commonwealth. This will require an army of personnel, at tremendous cost to the taxpayer, to duplicate services already in existence and provided by the States. I refer to such things as inspections and licensing. Why have such an unnecessary and costly duplication started in 3 weeks? Why has this been allowed to come about when this Government already has the nation on its financial knees? Clause 12 refers to the agreement to be entered into 'by Australia and any proprietor', thus by-passing the States. The Bill seems to have been hastily prepared because clauses 4 and 35 appear to be contradictory. The responsibility, which includes matters relating to facilities and standards, will be transferred under this Bill from the Director-General of Health to the Permanent Head of the Department of Social Security who is not a medical officer. Clause 29 of the Bill would clearly overrule all State laws as it states: 
. notwithstanding anything contained in a law of a State . . . 
Under deficit funding, as proposed in clause 9, religious and charitable nursing homes will find that they are under strict control as to the provision of new beds although a nursing home may consider that new beds are necessary, the decision will no longer be one for it to make. 
Under clause 11 it is proposed that approvals may be varied or revoked, all at the whim of the Permanent Head of the Department of Social Security. Under clause 1 7 the religious and charitable nursing homes will be subjected to committees of inquiry. These iniquitous committees of inquiry are the very same sorts of things that initiated the revolt of the general practitioners against socialised health schemes. How can the religious and charitable institutions be so naive as even to contemplate entering into an agreement of this nature with any government, especially this avowed and pledged socialist Government? They should abandon their altruistic principles of thinking that they are helping the poor and disadvantaged by offering the sacrifice of their personnel and patients to this socialist monster. It is a misdirection of the highest human emotions to enslave others through ignorance. The fiery fangs of the Federal Government are poised above them. They should resist the golden carrots that are dangled before them, drawing them and us nearer to our own entrapment. 
It is all my own work senator. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  I find that there is no point of order involved. 
-Thank you  Mr Deputy President.  The Federal Government is attempting to buy votes. It has assumed financial responsibility for these people, so let the Federal Government pay the right price for their votes. I advise the religious and charitable nursing homes not to enter into any deficit funding agreements with the Federal Government. I advise them to charge their patients the right fees in order to service their capital costs, their running costs and their maintenance costs, and to update costs and the costs of future expansion. By doing this they will quickly bring the Government to heel as the electors will not stand for the Government shirking its responsibilities to the very people it has promised to support. The Government's deal is really with the patients, not with the nursing homes. By acting as I have suggested the nursing homes will improve the services that they are able to provide and will provide them in a much more congenial atmosphere, in freedom and in control of their own destinies and in the finest religious and charitable principles and traditions. 
I ask the Minister for the Media: Is it a fact that the Government has recently established a great propaganda machine in Queensland in the form of, firstly, the Australian Information Service staffed by  Mr Glynn  May, and a journalist and a photographer; secondly, an information officer, fully equipped and on Telex, Richard Whitington, representing the Prime Minister's Department, following a request for him contained in a minute from the Queensland Central Executive to the Prime Minister; and thirdly, the Australian Government Liaison Office under the command of  Mr Jack  Stanaway, a former public relations officer for the Australian Labor Party in Queensland and an unsuccessful applicant for Press secretary to  Mr Houston?  What is the purpose of this great propaganda machine when Commonwealth Government public relations officers exist in Queensland anyway? What is it all costing and why is it necessary to have 3 separate information services, especially in Queensland? 
My question is directed to  the Leader of the Government in the Senate and relates to the Government's about-face on economic policies immediately the Prime Minister returned from his overseas tour. Why is it that the Prime Minister announced on his return the introduction of economic measures which he spurned a few weeks earlier? Was he convinced overseas that Australia is better placed than most countries to insulate against rising inflation? Has he finally conceded that the major share of the blame for Australia's sorry economic state rests with his Government? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation whether the Minister has recommended the relaxation in New South Wales and South Australia of the export ban on kangaroo skins and products. Is this because the kangaroo conservation programs operating in these States comply with the Commonwealth's wishes? Is it a fact that the other States with large kangaroo populations- Western Australia and Queensland- also are endeavouring with some success to meet the Government's conservation requirements? How soon might the ban be relaxed in those States? Is there a suitable overseas market for kangaroo skins and products? Will the United States of America in particular accept imports if it is satisfied that Australia's kangaroo harvesting program is designed to protect the species? 
I rise to lend the support of my Party to the amendments to this legislation foreshadowed by the spokesman for the Opposition,  Senator Durack.  The foreshadowed amendments are not all that we would desire but we think that we can wear them, that the Government can tolerate them and that the people of Darwin can live with them. In no way could we be seen to be denying the severity of cyclone Tracy that struck Darwin, the damage done there, the courage of the people of Darwin, the way that organisations and people rose immediately to help, or the wonderful response to the appeals that were made. We recognise all those things and they were mentioned earlier in the debate. Now it is a matter of reconstructing Darwin. This Bill is designed to facilitate the reconstruction of Darwin. 
I am pleased to see in the chamber three of the honourable senators who were members of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory. The honourable member for the Northern Territory,  Mr Calder,  is in the gallery and I noticed a little while ago that the majority leader in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly was in the gallery. This indicates the importance which they and the members of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory place on this Bill. I want to bring to the notice of the residents of the Northern Territory that the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory has been reconvened and is to meet tomorrow morning. I do not know the purpose of the meeting but this shows that this Parliament regards the reconstruction of Darwin as important. 
I think that this Bill, like a lot of the Bills that have come into this chamber since I have been a member of the Senate, is badly named. It is called the 'Darwin Reconstruction Bill' but it is really a Bill to create a huge and powerful commission. A lot of Bills are badly named. The Family Law Bill really was a divorce Bill. We also dealt with 6 health Bills, and the Australian Industries Development Corporation Bill. Lots of Bills are badly named and I think this one is badly named. It will create an all-powerful commission and that is the thing we want to correct with our amendments. 
Certainly not. Despite the powers that the Darwin Reconstruction Commission will accept it will still remain under the direction of the Minister. 
Not strictly. The Bill refers to the Minister. The Commission can ask any of its officers to go into anyone's premises and, without giving them a reason, throw them out. We seek some reassurance on that point. 
Such a clause is in the Bill and it is referred to in one of the amendments. The honourable senator will realise that in the Committee stage. Despite the name of the Bill and the location of the swathe that cyclone Tracy cut through Darwin the Bill seeks to extend the locus of the operation of the Commission to an area of 60 kilometres around Darwin. If the fiery fangs of the Federal Government are to take a bite that big out of the Northern Territory, it is not commensurate with the need. The BUI will give the Commission power to decide priorities for suburban construction and reconstruction and even the relocation of suburbs. This will be done without reference to the people of Darwin, particularly the ratepayers of Darwin.  Senator Georges  referred to a plan but nowhere in this Bill is there provision for a plan which the people of Darwin can look at to see what the Commission will do. There is no provision for an avenue of objection to or appeal against what the Commission intends to do. I think this is the most vicious thrust of the Bill. It forces government down the throats of the people. 
I want to revert to the query raised earlier about oral direction to people in Darwin. I refer honourable senators to clause 16, the side heading of which is ' Removal of Occupants '. It states: 
The Commission may, by notice under the seal of the Commission, or a person authorised by writing under the seal of the Commission to give directions under this section may, by oral direction, direct all or any persons or person to leave, or prohibit all or any persons or person from entering, premises in the Darwin area . . . 
I think the intention of this legislation is to take control of the city. 
Certainly not. They are designed to give the people of Darwin a say. The thrust of this legislation is away from the people of Darwin. I think all Australians should read this sort of legislation to see what is in store for them if this Government is in office long enough. 
-It is not stale. This Bill provides for the Commission to take control of works, service facilities and public utilities in Darwin. The Commission will be in charge of all those things and there will be no consultation with the Northern Territory Administration or the local government authorities. The Commission will be in control. Not only will the Commission need the approval of the Minister for most of its actions; it must do what he says. If honourable senators want to hear these wonderful words I invite them to listen to clause 9 which states: 
The Commission shall comply with any directions given to it by the Minister with respect to the performance of its functions or the exercise of its powers. 
By that clause the Commission must obey the Minister. On the other hand, the Commission can do almost anything it wishes with regard to land in the Northern Territory. Clause 13 states: 
The Minister may, by instrument under his hand, place under the control of the Commission any land in the Territory that is the property of Australia and is not comprised in a lease granted to any person. 
What will the Commission do, take control of a chunk of Alice Springs? Why should the Commission have control of any land in the Northern Territory? Did cyclone Tracy go near Alice Springs? According to that clause, the Commission could take any land there. 
The honourable senator can talk about the matter in the Committee stage. Our amendments concern the make-up of the Commission, seek to make the membership more equitable, seek to remove a lot of the influence of the Federal Government and seek to improve the influence of the people of Darwin. In addition, the amendments propose that the General Manager not be a voting member of the Commission and that he be, in effect, a servant of the Commission. We realise the importance of this legislation. Certainly it must be passed. We hope that the amendments will give the people of Darwinnore say in the reconstruction of their city than th ; Bill gives them. 
In view of the reply yesterday by the Leader of the Government in the Senate to a question on oil prices asked by  Senator Poyser,  I ask: Is it a fact that oil exploration in Australia has slumped dramatically? Is he aware of a report by the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association showing that the number of new wells drilled last year was the lowest for 12 years and that a further 44 per cent drop in drilling will occur this year? Is it also a fact that Australia will pay approximately $ 1,000m this year for imported fuel? Is the Minister satisfied with this situation? Does he not agree that one of the most important ways of encouraging oil search would be to hold out the incentive of a more realistic price for oil instead of the present price which is about one-quarter of the world price and which is discouraging oil search? 
I wish to add a little weight to the argument that the amendment should be accepted. It is a most important one. The whole thrust of the Bill is to take powers away from the administration in Darwin, to invest them in this huge Darwin Reconstruction Commission and to ignore to a large extent the wishes of the people of Darwin. I wish to point out that the amendment has been worked out in conjunction with elected members of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory and in consultation with the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator 
Cavanagh) said that provision for an appeal is made under clause 6 (e). I have read that subclause. I see no provision for an appeal. He feels that the hearing of thousands of objections would delay the activities of the Commission. If there were to be thousands of objections he apparently wants the Commission to be able to go ahead in the face of all those objections. I think this amendment is a most important one. I hope it will be accepted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that a woman can find herself pregnant, obtain a job in the Commonwealth Public Service, work for only one week and then be entitled to 3 months leave on full pay without having to return to work at the end of the time? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security whether the Commonwealth subsidy for private hospital patients remains at $16 a day plus the long standing $2 subsidy, a figure which has not been increased since 1971. At that time the $16 represented the larger part of the cost whereas today it represents far less than half the cost. Will the Minister take action to correct this inconsistency? 
I rise to speak in opposition to the Superior Court Bill. I compliment the lawyers who have spoken so far on their exposition of the Bill. It has been said that it is a lawyers' Bill. I notice from looking at the speakers' list that I am the only non-lawyer on that list. Judging from the increasing size of the books that are being quoted from, it looks as though it is a difficult Bill. The creation of a Superior Court in Australia is not a new idea. It was considered at Federation, but it was rejected. It has been considered by successive Attorneys-General since and has been rejected. That is not an insignificant fact considering the weight of the advice that must have been available to them. So a sea lawyer's view of the Bill might not be inapposite now. 
I took a look at the reasons why the Government was bringing in this Bill to create such a new court. The first reason it gave was that it was the policy of the Australian Labor Party, a reason that did not particularly commend itself to me and which I do not think would commend itself to at least half of the people in Australia. The second reason it gave was that there are large areas of jurisdiction which are of a specialised nature which justly fall under Federal jurisdiction. It names them as bankruptcy, taxation, trade practices, family law, industrial property and matters arising out of parliamentary law. I would point out that the State courts have been handling jurisdiction in these areas since 1903 and have been handling it com.petently. There has been no suggestion that they ave been doing otherwise. The third reason the Government gave was that it feels it should be able to sue and be sued in its own courts- and it added another half reason to that- because at present Parliament is excluded from considering reforms on legal practice and procedure. I say thank heavens for that. The Government claims that this has important effects on the rights of individuals in that it causes delays and increasing costs, that there are inequitable ways in which judgments are executed and that people's rights can vary from State to State. 
Then I considered the reasons why we should reject the legislation. Firstly, the prime reason is that none of the reasons given for introducing the legislation is concerned with what sort of a court system best suits the people. I submit that the only proper question to consider is what sort of court system best suits the people. An effective judicial system should satisfy a few criteria. Firstly, it should be independent of any outside pressure. Secondly, it should be accessible both financially and geographically to all the people all of the time. Thirdly, it should be simple and not complex. The ordinary citizen should be able to understand it and how it works, where to find it and what type of judges sit in it. Fourthly, it should be able to enforce all the law of the land and the citizen should be able to have all his rights determined in one court, whatever the source of the law, whether it be State or Federal law. 
In a federal system the judicial system should act as a cohesive force throughout the nation. As I see it, the establishment of this large and powerful Superior Court would create a division in the country by dividing it into 2 court systems. The State Supreme Courts would be emasculated. lt would also add complexity to our legal system, and the 2 systems would be explicable only by an expert on constitutional law. Technicalities would abound. There would be judges with different tenures. There would be a great diversity of decisions between State and Federal courts. There would be many inconsistencies in criminal law and there would be divisiveness in the administration of the law between the Federal and the State judges. There would be different law enforcement officers. There would be federal marshals and State sheriffs. One can just imagine the confusion. Under this new system people would not be able to have their rights determined in one court irrespective of the origin of the law. On top of this, implementation of the Bill would cause friction between Federal and State judicial systems and between the judicial officers of those systems. None of the reasons for the introduction of the Superior Court is worth the price we would have to pay for it. 
I remind honourable senators of the main provisions of the Bill and I quote from Hansard of 24 July: 
It is to be a Superior Court of record, that is to say, the highest type of court. It will have power to fine and imprison and enforce its own orders. It will have power to fine for contempt. It will consist of a Chief Justice and other judges appointed from time to time. There will be 6 divisions with a Chief Judge for each division. The divisions are: Administration, Bankruptcy and Insolvency, Commercial, Family, General Division and Industrial Division. There will be an unspecified number of districts with a Chief Judge for each district. Since there is specifically established an Australian Capital Territory District and a Northern Territory District one assumes that there will at least be one district for each State, that is, in all at least 8 districts, each with a Chief Judge. 
If honourable senators count those up they will find, according to my reckoning, that there will be 15 chiefs. I wonder how many Indians there will be. In addition there will be an original and appellate jurisdiction in the court. A great deal of the work of this new Superior Court will come from matters arising out of laws made by the Parliament so it will be a court of very wide jurisdiction. 
I regard clause 23 of the Bill as a dragnet provision aimed at giving the Court jurisdiction in matters which are not matters of Federal jurisdiction. The Bill also contains provisions to transfer existing jurisdiction from existing courts- for example, from State Supreme Courts and from the High Court, from the Supreme Courts of the Territories, from the Federal Bankruptcy Court and from the Australian Industrial Court. If the new court is created there will be registrars and registries and marshals to enforce the law similar to the system which exists in the United States of America, with all its inadequacies and dissatisfactions. Under this new Bill practice and procedure are to be moved from the jurisdiction of judges and left to politicians. The Bill discloses the scope and size of the proposed Court, lt would be the largest court in the country and its writ would run throughout the Commonwealth and its Territories. It would exercise tremendous power over our citizens and it would be expensive. It would need many judges and their staffs. It would require the provision of courts, registries and jury facilities in every city of the Commonwealth and it would involve the employment of law enforcement officers and the construction of gaols and perhaps even re-education communes. 
It would need marshals. Read the Bill. Concerning the third reason that the Government gives for the introduction of this Bill, that is that the Government thinks it should be able to sue and be sued in its own courts, 1 think that in a parliamentary democracy no government should put itself above its people. Why is this Government trying to do that? I submit that where the people sue and get sued is the proper place for the Government to sue and get sued. 
The wisdom of the founding fathers of our Constitution which was challenged so heavily by the Government during the Joint Sitting last year was shown in the fact that they considered the establishment of a federal court and rejected it. They gave their reasons but to give honourable senators some idea of the thinking at the time I quote from a telegram of 1 April 1897 sent by Simon to  Sir Samuel  Griffiths. It was said of this proposal to vest Federal jurisdiction in State courts that the object was 'to avoid the needless creation of Federal courts in all the States and the consequent degradation of the State courts and avoid the difficulties of litigation which exists in America'. In other words, in those days the use of the State courts was seen as a means of maintaining a simple court system handling both Federal and State law with the High Court acting as the supreme court of Australia. This same argument is still good today. 
There is no suggestion from the Government that Federal law is not being properly administered under the present system. There is no need to construct this big expensive court. The State courts have been handling taxation and industrial property jurisdiction competently for years. Any specialised Federal jurisdiction that requires a special court could be vested in the Industrial Court, as could jurisdiction under the Trade Practices Act, resale price maintenance and administrative review appeals. The proposed Court would degrade our Supreme Courts. The Supreme Court would bc stripped of jurisdiction in matrimonial causes, company matters, consumer affairs, accident insurance cases, jury cases, motor vehicle cases, industrial accidents, workers' compensation, taxation cases and industrial property cases. What would be left for the State courts? They simply would become property courts of an inferior status. 
In other words, this is a centralising Bill. It is designed to transfer powers from the States to 
Canberra at huge cost to the taxpayers. It is an entirely unnecessary Bill. The Opposition is convinced that if this Bill is adopted by the Senate it will be a retrograde step. It will remove the creative opportunity to improve our judicial system and it will seriously weaken our State courts, divide our judiciary and confuse the people. We oppose the Bill. 
I rise to speak against this Bill. It is called the National Health Bill, which is a misnomer. It is a financial Bill and it is simply part of the Australian Labor Party plan to socialise our health by destroying our private medical care. For example, clause 1 6 of the Bill states categorically that it is designed to destroy our medical insurance funds. These long standing funds, despite what has just been said, have been shown to be more efficient than any single fund could be. I invite the Government to show me one government department that operates efficiently. 
I would like to point to a few basic facts about the Bill and the effects that it will have. It will reduce all of us to standard patients treated by standard doctors in standard practices and standard wards. Who will decide what that standard will be? Who will pick the standard- the Department of Health, the Department of Social Security, the patients, the doctors or the State governments? The Bill does not indicate what the standard will be. In addition, the Bill is designed to get all the doctors on the Government payroll in a graduated series of steps. Private medical practice is to be destroyed, no matter what argument the Government puts up. Let us look at it this way: If a doctor is paid by the Government he is working for the Government and he is not working for the patient. That is a critical point. If a doctor's fees are fixed, albeit probably at a low level, no matter what kind of trbunal is set up, he will not be able to keep up with the increases in the cost of living. The only way that he will be able to increase his income is to see more patients. This leads to rush jobs and poor standards. 
If a doctor is to be paid the same fee for good work as he is paid for bad work, he will not be paid to worry about his patient, and he will not worry about his patient. If his patient becomes a problem, he will simply refer his patient to somebody who is paid to worry about his patient. We will become a nation of what are called 'referologists' and doctors will refer their patients to other people, usually psychiatrists. Doctors who work for standard fees or salaries will have only one way to advance their careers; that is, to turn to being academics involved in teaching, research or publishing. In each case the patient will become the forgotten person in the medical system and will be used as research material, as teaching material or even as a guinea pig. This new kind of health insurance is being rammed down our necks, whether we like it or not or whether we want it or not. The Government tells us that it is not compulsory; it is merely obligatory. The Government says that it will be financed from our taxes- not the taxes that we are paying now, but a whole lot of new taxes which will work out to be a 7 or 8 per cent increase on what we are paying already. We will wind up paying more and getting less, as has happened with all socialised health schemes that have been tried all round the world. They have failed miserably. Not one nationalised health scheme is a success. All the nationalised health schemes and socialised health schemes are variations on a theme. 
The reason that is given for bringing in this Medibank scheme is that 8 per cent of the people are not adequately covered. That means that over 90 per cent are adequately covered. In order to cover that 8 per cent we are to upset the other 90-odd per cent. I point out that many of the 5 per cent, 8 per cent or 10 per cent who are not covered choose not to be covered. Amongst them are many new Australians who prefer to spend their money in their own way. This new Bill will force them to pay through their taxes for a scheme that they do not want. We may disagree with those people or even think that they are silly, but that is no reason to force it down their necks. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has promised the State hospitals that he will meet half the cost of their operations. But who will decide the standard of the hospitals? Do honourable senators think that the Government will allow the States to spend any amount they wish to spend on upgrading or extending their hospitals? It certainly will not. By the use of this new economic democracy the Government, by threatening to reduce or even withdraw its commitment, will have control of the future management, extension, development and expansion of the State hospitals. 
The latest promise by the Minister is that optometrists will be included in this scheme. This sounds great, but buried in the heart of this pretty little promise is the hidden sting. Optometrists' services will be free, provided their fees can be fixed by the Minister. This is duplicity. Perhaps the resolute Minister will try to hold out the golden carrot to the optometrists as he tried to do to the medical profession and the private hospitals. The golden carrot is the offer of attractive fees for the immediate future when the Minister knows that these fees shortly will be overtaken by the inflation that his Government is causing. I trust that optometrists will show their usual discrimination and reject the offer with contempt. 
Very soon then the Minister will be subjected to standard glasses and standard frames. The Government points to deficiencies in general practitioner services at the moment. He says that group practices already have eroded the doctor-patient relationship, but the Government is missing the point again. There are not deficiencies in general practice todaythere is a crisis in general practice today. Approximately only 4000 general practitioners are operating in Australia. We need at least four times that number. Even if we start trying to increase the numbers now it will take at least 10 years to increase their numbers fourfold. The reason we have so few general practitioners is that the Government has made it unattractive for doctors to be in general practice. 
They have been disappearing for years, and they are disappearing fast. The only way any government can provide any form of public health service is to ensure that there is a healthy private health service. It is a matter of some wonder to me that this new scheme, which will disadvantage every man, woman and child in Queensland, is being brought in mainly by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  who are Queenslanders. Bills to introduce this scheme were forced through the Joint Sitting with the help of the 4 Labor senators from Queensland who had been given a clear indication in the May 1974 election that the people of Queensland did not want the scheme. This indication was reinforced in the Queensland State election in December 1974. 
Finally I remind the Government of some common horse sense. A service free of cost at the point of consumption creates unlimited demand which has to be satisfied from a limited budget. The two cannot meet. Therefore the Government has to introduce restrictions which inevitably lead to dissatisfaction amongst the patients, dissatisfaction amongst the doctors and dissatisfaction among members of the Government. We reject the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it a fact that any further reduction in interest rates or even the retention of the new rates that are now emerging is heavily dependent upon a significant reduction in government spending? If so, will the Government prune its expenditure to alleviate the hardship, especially in housing, caused by the highest interest rates in Australia's history? Is that not an inescapable obligation of a responsible government? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will be aware that the Sovietpermitted return to Australia of Russian violinist Georgi Ermolenko renews doubts about the Government's real intentions in having him returned to Russia last year. Is he concerned at media reports that the Government's intervention was not prompted by any desire to prevent an ugly international incident but in fact was part of a deal with the Kremlin aimed at making good the Prime Minister's alley on his then imminent visit to Russia? If these reports are false, will the Minister seek for the Senate a statement of denial by the Prime Minister? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that the Defence Services are called upon to provide a wide range of emergency relief equipment from their own stores in times of natural disasters? Can the Minister say whether those stores are so used and, if so, how they are replenished and whether the cost is met from the defence vote or a special appropriation? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the fact that Government spending in the first 9 months of this financial year- $12, 386m- has increased by almost 50 per cent on the figure for the same period last year, I ask: Does the Government believe that inflation can be checked while its own spending increases at such an alarming rate? Can the promised restructuring of the income tax scale be undertaken to the relief of taxpayers in the light of the present record Budget deficit? 
-I agree with the Opposition's stance in respect of the National Health Bill (No. 2) and the National Health Bill (No. 3). We find National Health Bill (No. 2) agreeable because it extends benefits to 2 classes of patient that were not previously included. However, we find National Health Bill (No. 3) to be obnoxious primarily because of the huge powers that will be given to the Minister if it is enacted.  Senator Button  referred to several articles that showed defects in the previous administration of the medical insurance organisations. He then quoted reports of various committees in relation to those operations, and in all of those quotations, he referred to the supervision of the funds. 
I am sure that the funds would not mind supervision. However, what this Bill proposes is the control of the funds. As the Minister's second reading speech was incorporated without his reading it, perhaps some of the statements contained therein escaped the notice of Government senators. Right at its opening, the second reading speech stated that the main purpose of the Bill is for the more effective supervision by the Australian Government of the operations of medical and hospital benefits organisations that are registered. The Minister then went on to refer to taking control of those organisations. He said that the Government regarded the Senate's rejection of the provisions of the Bill relating to the health insurance organisations as representing a severe setback of an attempt by the Government to establish provisions for the protection of contributors to health insurance funds. 
The Minister then changed his reference to contributors' to a reference to 'consumers', and said that consumers did not have representation on the bodies managing the. funds. We must remember that these are insurance funds, having nothing to do with shareholding funds. I do not know of any client representation on the boards of insurance companies, not that I would be against such representation. I should think that the obvious solution would be to recommend that contributors be represented on the boards of these funds rather than that the whole system should be up-ended, with the boards being put under the control of the Minister. 
Whatever they neededwhatever was considered to be responsible. There is no need for the Minister to have control. Referring to the Government's responsibility, the Minister's explanation continues: 
This responsibility is all the greater because of the Government's financial involvement in the existing private health insurance scheme. The scheme is supported by extremely generous direct and indirect government subsidies. The health insurance organisations could not have grown to their present significance, nor could they continue to operate, except for the very generous support that comes from government sources. 
I should like to point out to the Government that, in supplying medical benefits to people, it was really seeking to endear itself to the voters. In other words, it was buying votes in constructing these medical insurance organisations. 
Yes, I agree, all governments are involved. They are buying votes and, if they are going to buy votes, I insist that they pay the right price for those votes. Now that the cost is hurting, the Government thinks that it should nationalise these organisations and all our problems will go away; but they will not go away. In the second reading speech, the Minister carefully spelt out the mechanism by which he can take over these funds, not that I think he is particularly concerned about the funds; but he is concerned about their reserves. He said: 
The Bill includes provisions to enable the Minister, where he believes it to be in the contributors ' interests - 
I should hope that the funds would normally act in the contributors' interests-  to request an organisation to show cause why it should not be investigated in relation to specified matters. Where the organisation fails to satisfy the Minister, and he believes it to be in the contributors ' interests, he may appoint an inspector to conduct an investigation into specified matters relating to the affairs of the organisation. The Bill further provides that after he has considered the report of the inspector, the Minister may take such action consistent with the Act as he considers appropriate. This may include making an application to the Australian Industrial Court for the appointment by the Court of a judicial manager to manage the affairs of the fund or for the fund to be wound up by the Court. 
The Minister also stated: 
The Bill further provides for the transfer of excess reserves between medical and hospital funds conducted by an organisation. 
The decision as to whether the reserves are in fact excess reserves is left to the Minister. The Minister went on to refer to the estimated cost of special accounts. He said that the escalation in Government spending through the special account mechanism had occurred at a time when there were extremely large reserves accumulated by the funds. This is true. There were many problems with the private health funds but, as with many other matters, they could be regarded as teething problems. It would be better to son out and solve the problems of the funds, rather than to upturn the whole system. The Minister stated that the Bill provides for an independent tribunal to be established specifically for the purpose of reviewing directions by the Minister, and I am pleased that that is so. 
Regarding the relationship of this Bill to Medibank, we consider that its provisions are intimately related and linked to the Medibank proposals. As legislation relating to Medibank has already been rejected, we believe it is consistent to reject the National Health Bill (No. 3 ). 
-The Corporations and Securities Industry Bill is a huge Bill. It is new, it is novel; indeed it is gargantuan. Nothing like it has been seen in Australia previously. It has 235 pages, 284 clauses, and 8 schedules each big enough to be a Bill. The Minister himself has noted that it is more like a book than a Bill. The then AttorneyGeneral, in his second reading speech, which itself is of 30 pages, made 3 main points. He said initially that the Bill had been tailored to the requirements of the securities industry in Australia.  His  second point was that, for its pan, the Government would give close consideration to any representations made to it and would make amendments where that course appeared desirable. And I stress that 'the aim would be to get the best possible legislation'. The third point made by the Attorney-General, which is rather forbidding and which contained some foreboding, was that the Bill represented a first step towards the objective of national companies legislation to which the Government was committed. 
Returning to the first point, that the Bill had been tailored to the requirements of the securities industry in Australia, I say that, from the shocks and scares we are getting from the stock and share people in Australia and from the huge flood of submissions appearing before us, it would appear that there has been insufficient consultation between the Government and the industries involved. On that ground alone there is sufficient reason to refer this huge new Bill to a Senate select committee so that all the evidence can be sifted to get the best possible legislation, which was the then Attorney's second wish. The 
Bill can be dissected into 2 broad segments, the first dealing with the control of stock exchanges and the second- parts 4 and 5- dealing with the obligations and regulatory requirements on the operation of companies; that is, it adds a new obstruction to the operation of companies which already have to comply with regulations in the States. It will add another tier of regulations to company operations- this in the face of the forthcoming new national companies legislation which we expect later this year. 
At the outset I should like to point out that the stock exchanges themselves recognise the need for some regulation. This, of course, has followed the wonderful and exciting boom of the 1960s, when we had people punting on the stock and share market in much the same way as people punt on the races, and they were enjoying it. However, some people took advantage of loopholes in the legislation and commenced such debasing practices as insider trading, sweetheart deals, cornering, salting mines and so on, which I suppose was more or less to be expected. In any business or profession one can find some rogues. That happens in my own profession, in the legal profession, or in any other profession. But to put everyone into a straight-jacket because of a few rogues is, I consider, overreacting. We are aware that a securities and exchange commission has been in existence in the United States of America for 40 or more years; but how is it operated? It has operated as a restrictive trade practice, and it has slowed down development, increased costs, and fed inflation. I would say that those are the natural effects of government interference in almost any business. 
The question I ask is this: Is the regulation of the stock exchanges a proper role for government? I have not yet been convinced that it is. I know many people would not agree with me, but I think it is more properly a job for the stock exchanges themselves. Most- or all- great professions possess the power to police themselves, and they jealously guard their reputations; the success of their members depends upon their skill and their ethical standards. We have medical ethics committees, which are most stringent in their regulations. Doctors abide by their rules wholeheartedly. If they do not, they are deregistered. The Bar Association operates in the same way for the legal profession. I suggest that the required regulation of the stock exchanges should be a code of ethics voluntarily agreed to by their members. The irregularities in practice during the boom years have focused attention on the malpractices that occurred, and now that we are aware of them I think we can rectify the faults ourselves. A flaring appendix is cut out; the whole body is not put into an icebox. 1 see no reason to put corporations and stock exchanges into a government strait-jacket because of a few rogues. The proposed corporation and exchange commission will have enormous powersfrighteningly wide powers. For example, the commission can close a stock exchange for 21 days. That, of course, would break it, because often closure for one day is sufficient to do that. In addition to closing stock exchanges for 21 days, the Government can close a stock exchange indefinitely. If this legislation is passed, any member of the commission will be able to sit in at a meeting of a stock exchange or at any board meeting of a company. That is unwarranted government intrusion. The commission would impose many obligations and requirements on the corporations and stock exchanges, either through the commissioner or by regulation through the Governor-General. Again, this is an unwarranted government intrusion and interference which will increase costs all round. 
The machinery for appeal and review against acts of the commission is less desirable than appears usual. I submit that it should be regularised. The statutory commission proposed will be extremely powerful. It is intended that brokers' fees will be fixed, and I suppose this is the long awaited fruition of a desire on the part of the Government; as it wants to fix medical fees, which will give bad medicine, so it wants to fix brokers' fees, which will give bad business. Collective investment schemes are envisaged, and indeed proposed, and eventually the establishment of a national stock market- how typical and how socialist. It is proposed in the legislation to make rules in many areas- rules made by the commissioner or the government. I shall mention a few of the more repugnant ones- for example, rules concerning the liabilities assets ratio of dealers, rules regarding information that dealers are to obtain from clients and rules concerning the qualifications and experience required for company directors. It is proposed to have rules governing the charges that dealers and advisers may make, rules about the responsibility of dealers authorised to use discretion and rules governing the provisions to be included in option contracts. The wrong rules in any or all of these areas would strangle our free market system and break down the basic financing of most of our industry. For the proposed regulation of foreign corporations, financial corporations and trading corporations, the Commonwealth would appear to need an additional constitutional power which it does not yet have. That is another reason for further scrutiny of this Bill by the proposed select committee. It could consider also the proposed agreement between the States and the Commonwealth. That could be an exercise in co-operative federalism, which I find most ingenious. 
There also are many technical issues which need further clarification but which are not clarified in the Bill. They relate to takeovers, the issuing of prospectuses and similar issues which need much further clarification. I can just imagine the reaction of trade union leaders if the corporations of labour were to be subjected to the controls that are proposed in this Bill for the corporations of capital. One good thing that has come out of the introduction of this Bill is that it has brought the intentions of this Government to the notice of the business world as a whole. Businessmen have had a preview of coming events. I hope it will weld them to other sections of the community in their opposition to big government. I would like to quote an example of this from a speech given by the  chairman  of the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges earlier this year. He said: 
One of the sad truths in the community is that too many of us confine our attention to our own self interest and leave other people to fight their own fights. As I have said, those directly affected are probably those who will be least convincing in arguing against a particular piece of legislation. The result I think has been in the last couple of years that far too much legislation has been passed without sufficient public discussion and with those directly concerned not feeling disposed to utter much more than a whimper. Yet bit by bit a quite vast array of powerful regulatory legislation is being built up in Canberra giving a variety of bodies a range of powers that would have been quite unthought of just a couple of years ago- in fact even now a great many of us are only slowly becoming aware of just how extensive this armoury of powers already is- the Prices Justification Tribunal, the Trade Practices Commission and next the Corporations and Exchange Commission. 
I hope that he has some sympathy for the medical profession which already has been tested by fire.  Mr President,  I have much pleasure in supporting the recommendation to refer this Corporations and Securities Industry Bill to the proposed select committee. 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that at question time this morning the Prime Minister refused to acknowledge that there were North Vietnamese troops in South Vietnam? In reply to a question this morning the Minister for Foreign Affairs admitted that there are North Vietnamese troops in South Vietnam. Why is it that the Prime Minister, when acting as Minister for Foreign Affairs during the Minister's absence last week, did not know of North Vietnamese troop incursions when the Minister obviously does know? Is the Prime Minister's ignorance of this matter the reason for the discrepencies in the cables sent to Hanoi and Saigon last week by him? 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity of Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the Treasurer's statement yesterday that he would never cut the growth of money supply as a weapon against inflation, I ask whether the rate of inflation will continue to climb. What, in the Government's view, is the highest level of inflation that the economy can stand? Is it 25 per cent, 30 per cent, 35 per cent, 40 per cent, or higher? Or has the Government given no serious thought to the effect on the nation and its people of its excessive spending? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. The Minister will recall a question asked on 20 February about the appointment of officers to the Compensation Division of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation while the National Compensation Bill was still being considered. He will recall also his reply that the Department already had substantial compensation responsibilities apart from any under the proposed scheme. I now ask whether officers to be appointed in each State capital and Canberra as a result of advertisements are necessary in the light of present compensation responsibilities; or are these officers, some of whom will be quite highly paid, designated to become key personnel in a scheme which this Parliament has not yet approved? 
The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation will recall stating in answer to a question on 15 April that the Government would do everything it could to ensure insurance industry workers do not lose their jobs in the event of the establishment of an Australian Government insurance office. I ask the Minister whether this is an adequate undertaking in view of the Government's expressed concern at the current high level of unemployment. Will the Government guarantee that no competent insurance worker will lose his or her position as a direct result of Federal competition in the insurance field? 
Is the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation concerned that the estimate of the overall cost of the proposed national compensation scheme has gone up in recent months by $200m? Can a further upwards revision be anticipated in view of the Government's refusal to cut its expenditure to check inflation? Is the level of cost a consideration in the Government's plan to introduce the scheme? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Is it a fact that the Government is paying out huge sums of money to some companies in an attempt to subsidise employment? If so, who decides which companies should be subsidised? How much money has been paid or committed? Will companies which already have been forced to lay off staff be eligible to apply for retrospective assistance? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Has the Minister noted that the Labor Government's Medibank advertising program, which is being paid for by the taxpayer, claims that Medibank is a free service, when in fact all taxpayers will be obliged to fund not only their own health needs but also those of people who, for one reason or another, do not pay taxes? Has he also noted that the same Labor inspired taxpayer funded advertisements imply that patients can choose their own doctors when in fact patients, if hospitalised, must accept services by the hospital's doctors or must elect to become private or intermediate ward patients, thus having to pay higher ward fees? If he has noted these instances of deliberate untruths contained in the Medibank advertising campaign, amounting to misleading and false advertising which breach the Trade Practices Act, will the Minister consider what action may be taken under the terms of that Act? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Is it a fact that the Government has virtually warned the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to avoid jeopardising the future of wage indexation in its judgment on the metal trades case? Does this mean that the Government is asking the Commission to do something which the Government itself is not prepared to do? Is the future of wage indexation already at risk because the Government has not had the courage to come out strongly in opposition to the first wage claim after the Full Bench of the Commission laid down indexation guidelines? 
-We are discussing the Racial Discrimination Bill 1975 but after hearing that speech by  Senator Coleman  we could be forgiven for falling into some confusion because for all we know it could have been a discussion on a Bill on discrimination on the grounds of sex, income level, drugs, family power- anything but racial discrimination. No country on earth has solved the problem of inter-racial relations especially when those races are living side by side. The problems seem to me to be worse in those countries which have legislated in an attempt to solve the problems than it is in those countries which have not. Forced integration has been tried, for example, in the United States of America and it has proven a monumental failure. Forced segregation has been tried, for example, in South Africa and Rhodesia and it has led those countries into international ostracism, unjustifiably in my opinion because the multiracial and multinational problems in South Africa appear to me to be of much less magnitude than they are in other countries. 
Problems of racial discrimination do not occur in the socialist countries. I have been to the People's Republic of China. That country does not have racial problems. It has an immigration policy that is most stringent. It does not admit blacks, whites, reds or browns. If you go to the People's Republic of China you see only yellow people. Similarly I understand that the socialist republic of Russia has just as stringent an immigration policy. Those countries are not subject to the same problems in racial discrimination as we are here. Australia over recent years has adopted an immigration policy that has allowed the immigration into this country of blacks, whites, reds* yellows and browns. This, I fear, is importing a problem for all of those people plus our own Aborigines as well as Australians of European extraction. In other words, we are importing a problem into this country that has not been solved by any other country. Because of these problems, once again created by governments, we are now faced with this Racial Discrimination Bill. In my opinion if this Bill is implemented it will create more discrimination, not less. 
This Bill is being brought in on the grounds that Australia is a party to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. It is said to be urgent and overdue. The Government hopes to bring this Bill in by the use of its external affairs power which I submit is an abuse of that power because it will give rise to an internal affairs power that will alter the distribution of power between the Commonwealth and the States. The introduction of the Bill is supported by the Schedule of the International Con vention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, and claims that the charter of the United Nations is based on the dignity and equality inherent in all human beings. The charter of the United Nations makes no such claim. It refers to the fundamental human rights, the dignity and rights of a human person and the equal rights of men and women, and of nations large and small. In addition, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights refers to the inherent dignity and the equal and inalienable rights of all people. In other words, the Bill is being submitted as supported by an assertion that the United Nations did not make. For the benefit of honourable senators I have a copy of the relevant section of the charter of the United Nations and also a copy of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. If they wish the documents to be tabled or incorporated in Hansard that can be done. 
The beauty of the human race is that we are all different- one from the other- black, white, red, yellow or brindle. Each person represents his own individual slice of history, unique and unrepeatable. Only nature could alford to play the genetic lottery on such a massive scale and with such huge losses and wind up with 3 billion people on this planet, each of whom is unique and different from every other one no matter what the person's religion, race, colour, descent or national origin or sex. We must not allow the mis-use of the words 'the dignity and equality inherent in all human beings' as used by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland)  in his second reading speech to cloud the hard scientific evidence that stands before us for all to see that we are all different. The charter of the United Nations and the Declaration of Human Rights expressly recognise our rights and we must not allow legislation such as this to interfere with those inalienable rights. 
The United States of America has a Bill of Rights and that country's Constitution expressly states that no law shall be passed to interfere with those rights. The passage of this Bill would take some fundamental rights away from us, such as the right of free speech, free discussion and publication. Far from eliminating racial discrimination by making it illegal, the Bill will highlight the problems between the races and create an official race relations industry with a staff of dedicated anti-racists earning their living by making the most of every complaint in much the same way as does the Race Relations Board in the United Kingdom. At a time of economic chaos in Australia caused by this Government's spending, this Bill will create yet another large and expensive Federal Government department. It will be headed by a race relations commissioner with the status of a High Court judge and with powers similar to those used in the Spanish Inquisition. He will have assistants in all States, each of which will have its own staff and offices. By making new regulations this commissioner will be able to limit individual freedon even if it is against every instinct of the person concerned. 
This Bill will increase the power of the Government over the individual, both in extent and degree. The most dangerous effect of the Bill will be to discriminate against Australians; for example, in the field of education. At present there are in Australia some 10 000 foreign students from Africa, Asia and South America as part of the private students overseas program. In addition, there are about 8000 doing advanced courses and a further 1500 on the Colombo plan. The cost of all this in government subsidy to the 15 universities in Australia in which these students occupy one in every seven places is $42m a year. That cost is borne by the Australian taxpayers. Since the nationalisation of our universities in 1974 these students pay no fees. Except for the Colombo Plan, Commonwealth and State grants for their education have never been shown as foreign aid in the Commonwealth Year Book. Formerly these students were required to return to their countries of origin so that those countries would benefit from the education they had received, but in May 1973 the then Minister for Immigration altered the regulations so that they could stay in Australia, thus robbing their own countries of their services. Naturally, in Australia they would have a higher standard of living. They would be well paid and would gain the influential positions their university degrees would command. Having already deprived Australian students of positions in universities they would then deprive them of the jobs for which this training would have fitted them. 
In January this year Queensland was conducting a recruiting drive in England for doctors because of the shortage of doctors in Australia yet Australia has been training 1500 doctors, dentists and paramedical personnel from overseas every year. Should this Bill be passed it will ensure that large numbers of positions in technical and educational establishments and in government departments will be filled with students from overseas to the exclusion of Australians. Any objection would be stifled by the race relations commissioner while complaints would be deterred by the magnitude of the fine -between $2,000 and $5,000. Any Bill which discriminates against Australians should be burnt. I hope that the amendments moved by the Opposition will lend some degree of sanity to the Bill. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is the Government in favour of wage indexation? If so, what measures has the Government in hand should there be a breakdown of indexation as a result of the metal workers' case ending unsatisfactorily? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. What significance does the Government place on the role of the Army Reserve, the former Citizen Military Forces, in Australia's defence structure? Assuming that there is a real significance, I ask: Is it a fact that a married man in the Army Reserve is paid less for 5 days Army work than a married man on social service pay who does nothing? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. With food prices continuing to rise, thus increasing the pressures on the economy, can the Minister confirm that the Government has reversed its stand against cuts in public sector spending? If significant reductions are to be made, will the Government announce its intentions before the presentation of the Budget, to help allay fears that the economy is running out of control? 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  this Children's Commission Bill sounds good, reasonable and plausible. The Opposition is not opposing it, but we have some areas of concern. The ominous note to me, regarding this new government intrusion into our lives, was sounded early in the second reading speech of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  when he said: 
The Government's firm intention is to provide an imaginative and comprehensive range of services so that all children- 
I emphasise the word 'all '-  in Australia will have access to services that are designed to promote their well-being, to enhance the quality of life and to promote equality of opportunity for them and their parents. 
The Government claims that the establishment of a Children's Commission is a further recognition by the Government of the rights of women in Australian society. The reason the Government gives for the necessity to introduce this Bill is that changing social patterns have put considerable pressures on families with infant and school-age children. The Government claims that there is a human need and that is must take a flexible human approach to that need. It also claims that many existing facilities are seriously under-used and that the answer lies in people who know how to look after children. I agree with the Government in regard to the last point. I ask: What is the cause of the changing social patterns that have put such pressures on our families and children? The paramount cause is the debasement of our money by government spending and economic mismanagement, causing inflation and unemployment. In addition, there is the Government's permissive attitude to cultural standards that have taken us centuries to build. But it is inflation that is destroying our families by causing government induced poverty. 
Fuel is added to the fire by escalating taxation and benighted death duties. If the Government would look after its own housekeeping, stop intruding into areas that are not a proper role for government, fix inflation and ease taxation, our families would be able to look after themselves and areas of disadvantage would be reduced to such small pockets that existing and voluntary agencies could well take care of them. The Government implies that it can hire people who know how to look after children better than their own parents do. What a crazy notion! If one flies in the face of nature one goes against nature's grand plan. I have been a doctor long enough to know that if one tries to defeat nature one loses. Over the years government has manipulated its taxation policies in such a way that they have advantaged corporations and companies to the disadvantage of our families. This is an upsidedown policy. A family is just like a little company, with the mother as the managing director. She is responsible for making multiple executive and management decisions. The making of a home is an agreeable and happy pursuit and can give great comfort and satisfaction. 
The major factor that undermines the selfconfidence of our mothers is insecurity, and the greatest cause of insecurity is lack of money. Of all the worries that beset people, lack of money is the worst, and the greatest robber of our money today is government, by its deficit budgeting, its inflation and its taxation. In its first year of operation the Children's Commission, which is to be established by this Bill, will rob our mothers of a further $74m. If this sum escalates at the same rate as the pocket money of the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  escalated recently- it escalated from $llm to $240m in this financial year- we can expect our families to be suffering from even greater disruption and insecurity. Of course, family disruption is one of the effects of socialism, and obviously it is the purpose of this Government to disrupt families. After robbing families of $74m which the Government says is to be expended on all children in Australia, the Government then allocates priorities to those children whose parents are engaged in employment, to those children who are not being cared for in their own homes, to those children who need assistance and to those children who are sick and physically disabled. This Government is taking $74m away from families that have been made paupers by the Government and directing it towards financing the disruption of families, introducing the bureaucratisation of children and creating a diminishing ability in parents to make their own decisions. All of this is promised to us by 1980. 
The Federal Government intends to move into the fields of full day care, family day care, preschool education, emergency care, occasional care, before and after school and vacation care, play groups and any other child care activities in accordance with demand. There is to be a transfer of support away from the home to the community. During the last 2 years Australia has been a country of zero population growth. Why has this suddenly come about? Does the Government not think that it is a dangerous situation? If it continues for very long, the Government will not need the Children's Commission at all. Did the Government not realise that in its business bashing the biggest business it was bashing was our families? After forcing mothers out to work for money and encouraging single parents, the Government is compounding its errors by financing the symptoms of the disease that it has created. To me, that has sinister implications. I am not saying that the women's place is in the home, but I am saying that she should not be forced out of her home by government mismanagement. The Government is removing the woman's freedom of choice as to whether she stays in the home or not. 
As was stated by the Government in another place, the Children's Commission will take its place beside the School's Commission, the Technical and Further Education Commission, the Australian Universities Commission and the Commission of Advanced Education. In the other place the word 'education' was used in its widest sense, meaning the total development of the personality of a child. The Hansard of the other place indicates that it was stated that 'education' means not just education but the total development of the personality of a child. Of course, this is a socialist dream. It is the total control of our lives and the indoctrination of our minds. There are dangers in this Bill. We intend to move some amendments which I hope will recognise the importance of maintaining our families in their homes. 
Sitting suspended from 12.59 to 2.15 p.m. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. If the Prime Minister will not announce unequivocally that Government expenditure will be reduced, will he state which fresh items of expenditure are currently under consideration or have been recently reviewed by the Expenditure Review Committee? Or has the Prime Minister now totally abandoned the concept of open government? 
I rise because the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh),  in his opening explanatory remarks, has left the impression that there are still undesirable aspects in the Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders Act in Queensland. On the previous occasion this Bill was before the Committee it was altered until it was unrecognisable from when it first appeared. Any law which discriminates, must discriminate against some and in favour of others. If the laws in Queensland discriminate at all, they discriminate in favour of the Aborigines and the Islanders in a way that can be tolerated by other Queenslanders. There are 16 communities in Queensland run by the State Department. Aborigines and Islanders take part in executive decisions and policy decisions. They are employed by the Department. They have free access to the Premier at any time. He said that he will even go so far as to abolish the Act if that is their desire. 
The Queensland Act represents the desires of the Aborigines, which is not what the Federal Minister wants, that is, to tell the people what they are to have. The Premier truly represents the communities and their wishes. In previous debates I have dispelled the myth that Aborigines and Islanders have had their properties managed by the State Government by force. They can have their properties managed by the Government if they wish, but they can withdraw from that arrangement at a moment's notice and have it re-instated if they wish. I have dispelled also the myth that Aborigines and Islanders are tried for minor offences by a Queensland Government kangaroo court by showing that an Aboriginal or an Islander is tried for these offences by a court of his tribal elders, which fills all the criteria for a good judicial system. The miscreant has easy access to it. It is handy. It administers all tribal law. He knows the types of judges which sit on it. For the more serious offences and for offences committed outside the communities, the offender has easy access to Aboriginal Legal Aid or to the ordinary legal system of the country. 
If there is racism in Queensland, it is probably normal. As a matter of fact, I think that racism is normal, it is as it should be. Everyone, whatever his race, is proud of his race and naturally is suspicious of people of other races. The evils are bigotry, intolerance, racial domination and suppression. These are the bad things, not being proud of one's race. We do not have racism on the communities in Queensland. What we have is the quiet development of a multi-racial society, and it is successful. 
Where are the riots in Queensland? Where is the sickness and starvation? Where are the demonstrations? Where is the high crime rate on our communities? Where is the boredom? Where is the alcoholism? Not on our communities. On our communities Aboriginal and Islander Councils are given complete control over the sale of alcohol or the refusal to sell alcohol. We admit that problems concerning Aborigines exist outside the communities, but mainly with Aborigines who in their own way are trying to be assimilated or perhaps not trying to be assimilated. Many more problems exist in the communities run by the Commonwealth. One only has to read the report on the Yirrkala people. It is a shocking revelation and an indictment of the scandalous administration of this Federal Government. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh),  who is present in the chamber, walks with radicals, yet he has had these radicals camped on the front doorstep of Parliament House for months, ridiculing him. Honourable senators will have noted that the damage done by this protracted demonstration outside Parliament House still has not been repaired. A whole lawn is still torn up, waiting to be repaired. I think that if anything the Federal Government should be learning from Queensland rather than trying to dictate to it. 
I will take a discriminatory look at the representation of Aborigines and Islanders in their communities in Queensland. Every single community is represented by the National Party. Labor does not represent one of them. Cherbourg is represented by the Queensland Premier himself. Palm Island, which is in the Hinchinbrook electorate, is represented by the National Party. Mornington Island and Doomadgee, which are in the Mount Isa electorate, are represented by the National Party. That electorate was taken from Labor. All the communities in the Cape York Peninsula are in the Cook electorate, which was won from Labor by an Aboriginal on behalf of the National Party. The National Party and the Liberal Party are the only parties with Aboriginal representation in both State and Federal parliaments. In the Queensland State elections which were held on 7 December last year- I remind honourable senators that that was the anniversary of the bombing of Pearl Harbour- and which were fought on Federal issues, the Aborigines and Islanders showed the Canberra mandarins of mandates just what sort of malarkey they were talking. 
The final amendment concerns the right of tribal councils to determine who goes on or off their communities. The retention of the right of admission to communities by the tribal councils and the Queensland administration was the one request that was made by every tribal council. Prior to accepting this amendment, the Federal Government intended to deny these councils this right, a right that had been granted to them by the Queensland Government. The truth is incontrovertible. It can be taken, twisted and turned, but in the end it will be there. I think that this Bill was introduced originally simply as an attempt to discredit the Queensland Premier- because the Federal Labor Government sees him as its most formidable opponent- at the expense of the Aborigines and Islanders in Queensland, because this Government flew in the face of the expressed wishes of the people of those communities. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. It follows the Minister's answer to  Senator Greenwood  in which he confirmed that under Medibank general practitioner consultations will no longer be free of cost to pensioners. I ask: Why has this disadvantage not been pointed out clearly to pensioners? Why does the Minister blame the Australian Medical Association for this disadvantage? Does the Government expect general practitioners to charge all the Government's pensioners concessional fees? Concessional fees to pensioners were considered downgrading and were one of the reasons for bringing in Medibank. 
-Once again this hoary old Superior Court Bill has been brought sashaying into this Senate to be ejected and rejected like a punch drunk sailor. One is tempted to wonder why because with the proposed rejection, of course, the Bill will go into a double dissolution situation. Once again 1 notice that I am the only non-lawyer on the speakers' list. I notice that there are no speakers at all listed on the Government side, and there are a few lawyers over there. How a lawyer can be a socialist, I do not understand. 
I rise to lend the support of the National Country Party to the rejection of this Bill, a Bill that has been rejected by successive AttorneysGeneral over several generations on the basis of the mass of evidence that they must have had before them to consider. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  in his latest second reading speech has given no new reason for the introduction of this Bill. If my memory serves me aright, the first reason given for the introduction of the Bill is that the establishment of the Superior Court is Labor Party policy. This is hardly a reason that commends itself to me and at least half the people of Australia because, after all, the Labor Party's policy is a socialist policy. Socialism is the sole objective of the ALP constitution, and every member of the Parliamentary Labor Party has had to sign a pledge that he or she will socialise this place. So the first reason for introducing the Bill is not a good one. 
I think that the second reason was that there are large areas of Federal jurisdiction that the Government felt had to be handled by federal courts, areas such as bankruptcy, taxation, family law, trade practices, industrial property and matters arising out of parliamentary law. All of these areas have been competently handled through the State courts since 1903. There is no question that they have been handled in anything other than a proper manner. The third reason given by the Government was that the Government should be able to sue and be sued in its own courts, and it added the rider that at present the Parliament was excluded from considering reforms on practice and procedure. It said that that had important effects on the rights of individuals in that it caused delays and increased costs, that there were inequities in the manner of the execution of judgments, and that the rights of people varied from State to State. 
Once again I would like to state the reasons why we are rejecting this Bill. The main one is that none of the reasons given for the introduction of the Bill is concerned with what sort of court system the people want and what suits the people; and that is the only proper question to consider. An effective judicial system must satisfy a few criteria. Firstly, it must be independent of any outside power. Secondly, it must be accessible both financially and geographically to all the people all the time. Thirdly, it should be simple, not complex. The ordinary citizen should be able to understand it, how it works, where to find it, and the types of judges who sit in it. Next, it should be able to enforce all the laws of the land and enable the citizen to have all his rights determined in one court, whatever the source of the law, State or Federal. In a Federal system, such as that which we still have, the judicial system should be a cohesive force for the whole nation. 
As I see it, the establishment of a large powerful Superior Court would divide the country into 2 court systems, State and Federal, with the emasculation of the State Supreme Courts. That would add complexity. The 2 systems would be explicable only by an expert in constitutional law. Technicalities would abound. There would be judges of different tenure. There would be a diversity of decisions between the State and Federal courts. Inconsistencies in criminal law would abound. There would be divisiveness in administration of the law between State and Federal judges. There would be different law enforcement officers- Federal marshals and State sheriffs. One can just imagine the confusion. 
People would not be able to have their rights determined in one court, irrespective of the origin of the law. In addition, the implementation of the provisions of this Bill will cause friction between Federal and State judicial systems and between the judicial officers of those systems. None of the reasons given for the introduction of the Superior Court is worth the price that we will have to pay fork. 
I remind honourable senators of the main provisions in the Bill. It is to be a Superior Court of record. That is to say, it will be the highest type of court. It will have power to fine and imprison and to enforce its own orders. It will have the power to fine for contempt. It will consist of a chief justice and other judges appointed from time to time. There will be 6 divisions, with a chief judge for each division. The divisions are administrative, bankruptcy and insolvency, commercial, family, general and industrial. There will be an unspecified number of districts with a chief judge for each district. Since there is specifically established an Australian Capital Territory district and a Northern Territory district, one assumes that there will be at least one district for each State. That is, in all, there will be at least 8 districts, each with a chief judge. If one adds up the numbers of chiefs, one finds that it comes to fifteen, I think. Heaven alone knows how many indians they will be in charge of. As has been stated, it is a Court of both original and appellate jurisdiction. A great deal of its work will come from matters arising from laws made by the Parliament. So it will be a court of very wide jurisdiction. 
Clause 23 of the Bill is a dragnet clause aimed at giving the Court jurisdiction in matters which are not matters of Federal jurisdiction. There are also provisions to transfer existing jurisdiction from existing courts- for example, the State Supreme Courts, the High Court, the Supreme Courts of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, the Federal Bankruptcy Court and the Australian Industrial Court. There will be a registrar, registries and marshals to enforce the law- much the same system as exists now in the United States of America with all the inadequacies and dissatisfaction that they experience in that country. More importantly, practice and procedure are to be removed from the jurisdiction of judges and left to politicians. The Bill discloses the scope and size of the proposed court. It will be the largest in the country and its writ will run throughout the Commonwealth and its territories. 
The Court will exercise tremendous power over our citizens and it will be expensive. It will need many judges and their staffs. It will require the provision of courts, registries and jury facilities in every city of the Commonwealth. It will involve the employment of law enforcement officers, the construction of gaols and, as I said once before, perhaps even re-education communes. There is a third reason for the establishment of the Court put forward by the Government. It is that the Government feels it ought to be able to sue and be sued in its own courts. I say that in a parliamentary democracy no government is above its people and yet this Government wants to be above its people. I submit that where the people sue and be sued it is proper for the Government to sue and be sued. The wisdom of our founding fathers who wrote the Constitution has been challenged heavily lately. They considered the establishment of a Federal court or a Superior Court and rejected both ideas on the grounds that it was totally unnecessary, that it was a tremendous expense and that our law could be handled quite suitably through our State courts. The use of the State courts was seen as a means of maintaining a simple court system handling both Federal and State law, with the High Court acting as the Supreme Court of Australia. The same argument is valid now. There is no suggestion from the Government that Federal law is not being properly administered under the present system. 
There is no need to construct this big and expensive Court. The State courts have been handling taxation, industrial and property jurisdiction competently for years. Any specialised Federal jurisdiction that requires a special court could be vested in the Industrial Court, as could jurisdiction under the Trade Practices Act, resale price maintenance and administrative review appeals. The proposed Court would degrade our supreme courts. They would be stripped of jurisdiction in matrimonial causes, company matters, consumer affairs, accident insurance, jury cases, motor vehicle cases, industrial accidents, workers compensation, taxation and industrial property cases. What would be left of our State courts? They would be nothing but property courts of an inferior status. In other words, this is a centralist Bill. It is designed to transfer power from the States to Canberra at a high cost to the taxpayer. It is an entirely unnecessary Bill. The Opposition is convinced that the adoption of this Bill by the Senate would be a retrograde step. It would remove the creative opportunity to improve our judicial system. It would seriously weaken our State courts, divide our judiciary and confuse our people.  Mr President,  we oppose the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General noted that the Labor Government's Medibank advertising, which is being paid for by the taxpayer, claims that Medibank is a free service when in fact all taxpayers will be obliged to fund, not only their own health needs, but also those of people who, for one reason or another, do not pay taxes. 
Has the Attorney-General also noted that the same Labor inspired taxpayer funded advertisements infer that patients could choose their own doctors, when in fact patients, if hospitalised, must accept services by that hospital's doctors or else must elect to be a private or intermediate ward patient thus having to pay hospital fees. 
Will the Attorney-General consider what action may be taken under the terms of the Trade Practices Act if advertising in respect of Medibank is misleading and false and in breach of the Act. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Following the Government's referral of the question of the restoration of the superphosphate bounty to the Industries Assistance Commission and the recommendation of the Commission that the bounty be restored, why was no mention of the restoration of the bounty made in the Budget last night? 
-I rise to lend the support of the National Country Party of Australia to the opposition to this Bill. It is a sorry circumstance that we have to be faced with these confrontations on legislation all the time but if other Government senators believe as  Senator Everett  does then I can see why we are forced into these situations. The Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill 1975 highlights this Government's intention to expand its activities in the public enterprise system. The Bill was drafted originally without any consultation with the insurance industry and naturally caused a great furore, which continues until today. The legislation proposes a further addition to Government expenditure with no new benefits offered to the community. It is patently unnecessary and will result in a further reduction in the money available to the private sector of the economy. 
The Bill cannot be viewed in isolation but must be considered in the context of the proposed national compensation scheme, the national health scheme, the national superannuation plan and the national investment fund, if legislation for it is ever reintroduced into the Parliament. Of course, the national compensation scheme has been considered by a Standing Committee of the Senate. It has recommended that the legislation be withdrawn or at least redrafted and has suggested that the legislation is possibly unconstitutional as has been found to be the case with so much of the legislation that has gone through this Parliament. Medibank has been rammed down our necks and shortly I am sure that we will all choke on it. The national superannuation plan is still on the drawing board and the national investment fund is somewhere in limbo. No one could possibly give any accurate estimate as to the cost of any or all of these proposals or how fast costs connected with them will escalate. Once again our free enterprise system is under massive attack by this Government. But that is part of this Government's bag. 
All of us recognise the need for some government participation and involvement in national disaster insurance. It is part of the proper role of government as it is part of our internal defence against fires, floods, famines, cyclones, plagues and earthquakes. However, this legislation goes far beyond that. It uses the excuse of national need as a lever to justify entry into all forms of commercial insurance. Despite reassurances of the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  this morning and at other times, the Australian Government Insurance Corporation would have unlimited and unfair trading advantages over ordinary insurance offices. For example, it could operate indefinitely at a loss and would be subsidised by taxpayers. It could offer cut rate services subsidised by taxpayers. It is specifically exempted from the provisions of the Insurance Act and Life Insurance Acts which apply to all private insurance companies strict requirements as to their solvency, their asset valuation, unpaid premiums and the provision of information. The corporation will not be subject to the State companies legislation or, despite all the reassurances, to the provisions of the Trade Practices Act. In all probability the corporation will be free of the provisions in respect of dealings in securities which will be imposed on the managers of the private companies by the proposed Corporations and Securities Industries Act. 
The new Australian Government Insurance Corporation is not liable to pay tax on its incidental insurance activities such as investment as are private companies. It is not liable to pay stamp duty or fire brigade levies. The Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  has the absolute right to determine the comporation's return on capital. He could set a rate lower than any private enterprise could tolerate and the corporation could operate at unrealistically low premiums or pay unmatched benefits. On top of this, the corporation could achieve a significant cost advantage by using the operating facilities of other Federal Government departments and instrumentalities; for example, the Post Office. Unless these services were provided on a commercial basis their real cost would be hidden. The Government maintains that there should be greater competition within the insurance industry and seeks to provide this with the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. But as has been said, there are already 300 insurance companies in Australia. There are 45 life insurance companies, 260 general insurance companies and 6 State insurance offices. They have some 8 million policy holders. There is intense competition between each company now. They have been hard hit already by the policies of this Government resulting in high interest rates, high taxation and high inflation. Apart from the disaster of this Government, the insurance companies have sustained heavy claims due to natural disasters in the last couple of years. 
I see a more sinister aspect in the introduction of this Bill now. Previous governments encouraged capital formation by way of tax incentives to the insurance industry. This Government proposes the exact opposite. It raised taxes in respect of life insurance companies by 3 separate measures in the 1973-74 Budget. It increased tax again in the 1974-75 Budget. This increased government revenue but it reduced bonus payments to policy holders by 1 5 to 20 per cent. More importantly, this reduced the amount of money available for investment. 
Why is the Government trying to establish this corporation at a time of low business confidence when there is a major investment slump, when the corporation can only depress business confidence more and reduce investment further? This Bill smacks at the very foundation of the free enterprise system that has provided us with such a wonderful country and our Australian way of life. This Government hopes to destroy all this in the unholy name of socialism by creating an insurance corporation to provide unfair competition backed by unlimited government money, manipulated at the whim of a socialist Treasurer. The Opposition opposes the Bill. 
Did the Minister for Agriculture state at a meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council this month that some farmers could look forward to an improving situation and that government action was being taken to help others? Will he identify the first group and elaborate for the benefit of the second? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. On all Medibank claim forms appears the following statement: 'It is not necessary first to pay your doctor and then claim Medical Benefits. If you wish you may lodge your unpaid account with Medibank and have the benefit cheque drawn in the name of the doctor who provides the service. ' I ask: Is this not a misleading statement when the General Manager of Medibank wrote to all doctors stating that from 1 July 1975 a doctor has 3 methods of billing patients: Firstly, cash on the spot; secondly, patient claims first then pays the doctor; and thirdly, direct billing of Medibank? Does not this statement contravene the Trade Practices Act and therefore become illegal? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. In view of the fact that Medibank is refusing to post receipts to claimants because of the Government's huge elevation of postal charges, the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia is unable to pay benefits to its members. Many thousands of people are being financially disadvantaged because of this irregular business practice. What action is the Minister taking to remedy this anomalous position? 
-This Budget can be nothing but a cruel and useless hoax. It was prepared at immense cost which can only fuel inflation. Last July the Government was given sufficient funds to last it until next November, but already the Government has spent more than that and its departments are asking for credit from their suppliers. The Government will now have to ask for more money in order to carry on, so how can this Budget bear any relationship to reality or reason? As I say, it is a cruel, costly and useless hoax. Far from reversing our inflation, it will feed it as taxes have again been increased, as shown by the threefold increase in pay-as-you-earn tax that people will have to pay and also, as shown by the reversal in taxes paid by companies and selfemployed people and the taxes paid by employed people. Now, wage earners are paying much more in taxes than companies and selfemployed people. The position used to be just the opposite; that is, wages and taxes have gone up but business profits have come down. That reversal is indicative of the massive fall-off in profits of the private enterprise tax-paying sector. When profits fall taxes also fall, which is a fact that the Government would do well to remember if it wishes to pursue its withering policies. 
If the Government thinks that it can feed and grow on the fruits of inflation it is living in a fool 's paradise. The Government has used inflation as a weapon, and very effective one, to destroy our means of exchange- our money. It is a weapon which disrupts families, initially by forcing mothers out to work for money and then by undermining the basic security of the home. Inflation has been a devastating weapon in cruelling the business community. How can anyone budget to develop a business when there can be no accurate projection of costs? Private enterprise, because of the competition between firms, operates on a small profit margin and not a large one, as the slothful socialists suppose. When the massive armament of big government is turned on the delicate flower of private enterprise it rapidly wilts. That is what has happened in Australia. Our private enterprise is struggling to survive. Governments do not create wealth; they consume it. This Government is consuming the people 's wealth and to no useful purpose. We are being researched, investigated, controlled, planned for and directed beyond all bounds of reason. This Government has abrogated its duty to govern to a fungating plethora of commissions. The administration of the country is constipated by the impaction of nearly 50 costly commissions, nearly all of which are unnecessary, and the pipeline could do with a good enema. 
Mining men have been the front row men in the development of any country. They were the front row men in the development of this country. But look at mining now, and the drilling for oil and gas! Those industries are recoiling punchdrunk from the belting that this Government has given them. On top of that no new ventures have been started in Australia, which is a country that is an Aladdin's cave of sparkling resources. What chance would we have- a huge country with few people and massive resources- if we were dragged into the World Court to defend our position against a small country with a huge population and no resources? We would be ordered to exploit them, perhaps even by using overseas manpower. What would be said then about foreign ownership, conservation and environmental protection? How much say would we have, particularly when this Government has run down our defence forces to brooding impotence? 
Our drastic unemployment situation, which is already 3 times that which would be considered acceptable, is about to double shortly in spite of the fact that special wasteful, unproductive government schemes are hiding 40 000 unemployed. If the figure reaches half a million- 8 per cent of the work force- the situation will be far worse than we had in the Great Depression. Female unemployment is far worse, being already up to 6 per cent. The position is grossly understated because the Government does not include in the figures women married to an employed breadwinner. The Government must take action to start to remove itself from the economy and let us get on with our own business. The Government should not be doing for people things that they can do for themselves. It should concentrate upon its proper roles of defence and the maintenance of our laws and rights instead of neglecting our defence and attacking our laws and individual rights. The huge tax rip-off that the Government has literally stolen from the people has been frittered away in the pursuit of social reform, which I submit is not a proper role of government. 
Defence and law, which are the only 2 things that the Government has neglected. The massive reduction at this stage in the expenditure on research, particularly medical research, is an inhuman act. Not only will we be robbed of the fruits of that research but also we will be lining ourselves up with the socialist states- both the big ones- in this world, which have not produced one new medical or pharmaceutical advance in the last 50 years. 
None at all. When the effects of inflation are taken into account many of the existing research projects will be scrapped. The Government's standstill in university financing will scrap many of the existing projects in this respect. The constriction, rejection or nonacceptance of many other projects will be inevitable. Many research workers will lose their jobs. Effective research teams that have been built up over years will be broken up. Equipment into which large amounts of capital already have been invested will go unused or under-used owing to the lack of staff. The effect on the morale of the research workers will be shattering. Their prospects of a career in research in Australia have been discouraged. They will seek work elsewhere in more hospitable countries and be lost to Australia. 
As a direct result of this Government's restructuring of the economy in favour of government enterprise, if one can call it that, and opposed to private enterprise we are breeding a race of bludgers and parasites who are waiting on government handouts. Hundreds of these young Australians are living on the Gold Coast in multiplehire flats, smoking pot and fornicating on the foreshores. Hundreds of young Australians are doing the same thing in north Queensland, claiming that they are on government scholarships. Hundreds of young unemployed Australians are at Coota Beach on the island of Bali providing sordid entertainment for American tourists. Thousands are being overpaid social welfare- often by computer mistakes- and pensioners are being asked to make repayments of money that they thought was theirs. 
How can we expect honesty and responsibility from the people when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  himself spends millions of dollars of the taxpayers' money on the ordinary maintenance of his 2 official residences in Australia and junketing around the world? We have a Prime Minister who sanctions the irresponsible expenditure of the taxpayers' money on unwanted paintings that have offended most of his mandate, a Prime Minister who sanctions irresponsible expenditure on Aboriginal affairs to the detriment of Aborigines and the disadvantage of others, a Prime Minister who sanctions irresponsible expenditure on sordid films and proposes unhealthy law reform on incest, abortion and homosexuality, a Prime Minister whose every attempt to subvert our Constitution - 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  Before continuing my remarks I would like to thank the Manager of Government Business in the Senate  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  for the courtesy he showed me before lunch in granting the lifting of the Senate so that my speech would not be interrupted again. For the benefit of  Senator Cavanagh,  I should like to tell him that all the notes I have here are my own work and if he calls them copious notes he has a different idea of notes from mine. After the very nice lunch we had for  Mrs Suzman  I perhaps feel a bit more kindly disposed towards the world and maybe we will treat the Budget a little more kindly, too. 
As I was saying last night,  Mr President,  this Budget can be nothing more than a crude hoax. Undoubtedly it has taken a lot of preparation and it has cost a lot, too. It is a very clever political document, but certainly it bears no relation to reality. For example, the Government was granted money last July to carry it through till November. It has already spent all that money and more, and right now many Commonwealth departments are in debt and asking for time to pay. So how can the Budget relate to anything? I say the Budget is a cruel, costly and useless hoax. Far from relieving inflation, this Budget is likely to make it worse. Taxes have been increased, no matter what the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  has said. After all, he is only the newest Treasurer. This is the third Budget presented by this Government and by many different Treasurers. Indeed, one Treasurer did not even present a Budget. But the lessons from the first 2 Budgets have not been learned. 
As shown by the figures in the Budget, the situation with regard to the taxes received has been reversed from that in previous years. The taxes received from companies and self-employed people have been constantly reduced over the last 3 years, and the taxes received from wage earners have gone up and up and up until now 3 times more tax paid by wage earners is being received by this Government than before. This means that an opposite situation obtains at the moment: Wages and taxes have gone up but the profits of business have come down. The reversal is indicative of the massive fall in profits of the private enterprise taxpaying section of the community. The profits have been transferred into wages and the Government has made a tax grab of those wages while crumpling the business that earns the profits. When profits fall, taxes fall, and the sooner that this Government learns this the better, if it wishes to pursue the withering policies it has. 
If the Government thinks that it can feed and grow on inflation it is living in a fool's paradise. The Government has used inflation as a weapon- a very effective one too- to destroy our means of exchange- our money. It is a weapon which disrupts families initially by forcing mothers out to work for money and eventually by undermining the basic security of the home. Inflation has been a devastating weapon cruelling the business community. How can anyone budget to develop a business when there can be no accurate forecasting of future costs? On the other hand, because of competition private enterprise operates on a very small margin of profit but not a large one, as the deceitful argument of socialists supposes. When the massive armament of government is turned against the delicate flower of private enterprise, then it rapidly wilts and this is what has happened in Australia. Our private enterprise is struggling to survive. Governments do not create wealth; they consume it. This Government is consuming the people's wealth and it is consuming it for no useful purpose. We are being researched, investigated, controlled, planned for and directed beyond all bounds of reason. This Government has abrogated its duty to govern to this plethora of commissions. The administration of the country is constipated with the impaction of nearly 50 costly commissions, nearly all of which are unnecessary and, as I said last night, the pipeline could do with a good enema. 
Mining men have been the front row men in the development of every country. They were the front row men in the development of our country. But look at mining now, and drilling for oil and gas. These industries are recoiling and punch drunk from the belting that this Government has given them. On top of this no new ventures have been started in the country. We have reserves of fuel in the country for barely a week or two. We could be immobilised in a few weeks. 
Debate interrupted. 
On top of there being no new ventures in the country, a country which, as I said last night, is an Aladdin's cave of resources, we are in a desperate position for fuel. But I ask: What chance would a country like Australia, a big country, with few people and huge resources, have if it were challenged in the World Court by a small country with a huge population and no resources? 
I am reminding you of it. It is true. We would be ordered to develop these resources and then we would have trouble about foreign ownership, conservation and the protection of our environment. How much say would we have? Very little indeed, particularly when this Government has run down our defence forces. I notice now the Government has introduced an export tax on our coal industrytaking the whole profit from the industry. How can anyone develop a country when the Government squeezes industries like that? Do honourable senators opposite expect the Japanese to pay the new export tax and feed it straight into Government coffers? 
Our drastic unemployment situation, which is already 3 times that which could be considered acceptable, is about to double shortly in spite of the fact that there are special unproductive Government schemes hiding about 40,000 unemployed at the moment. If our figure of unemployment reaches half a million that would be 8 per cent of our work force and that would be a more desperate situation than existed in the Great Depression. Female unemployment at the moment is far worse. It is standing at 6 per cent at the moment and is grossly understated because it does not include wives who have an employed breadwinner husband. The Government should take action and start removing itself from our economy and let us get on with the business of living. The Government should not be doing things for people that they can do for themselves. It should concentrate on its proper roles of defence and the maintenance of law and our rights, instead of neglecting our defence and attacking our laws and our individual rights. The huge tax rip-off this Government has literally stolen from the people has been frittered away in the pursuit of social reform. 
-I thank the Senate. I will see whether I can finish my remarks in that time. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has now recognised that he is suffering from this commission constipation. He proposes to shelve reports from the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, the Social Welfare Commission, the Hancock Commission, the Toose Commission, the Priorities Review Staff and probably many others. He seeks to gain a spending pause by referring all these reports of various committees to an interdepartmental committee- that is yet another committeeheaven relieve us from committees, and a bureaucratic one at that- with no reference to the desires of the people. 
The Regional Employment Development scheme is now in its death throws but it has been a costly illness. The National Employment Training scheme survived its birth pangs with a massive transfusion of taxpayers' money. It is now going downhill fast. School cadets corps have been disbanded, which is a retrograde step, on the grounds that only 16 per cent of schools have them and that they do not result in the production of a highly trained military machine. This seems to me to be a complete reversal of socialist philosophy. In other words, school cadets corps would be retained if 90 per cent of the schools had them and they resulted in a military machine. In socialist countries, 100 per cent of schools have military training for boys and girls and they do result in the production of a formidable fighting machine. 
The socialists running our outfit must be the real armchair variety. In the last 2 years this Government's spending has gone up by twice the rate at which the people themselves have been spending. I ask honourable senators to note that I say it has gone up; it was already high but it has gone up by twice the amount which the people themselves have spent. Government employment has gone up at a huge rate while private employment has fallen. I repeat: Government produces nothing but it can consume everything. This Government is on the way to doing that while we teeter on the brink of disaster with the gaping jaws of Medibank yawning beneath us. We do not know yet what a voracious appetite Medibank will have. 
The home building business in Australia has been reduced by about one-third. It is plagued by shortages, expensive tradesmen, inflation and high interest rates. People are unable to borrow sufficient money. They cannot pay back from their pay packets enough to pay off their loans, and the Government is taking bigger and bigger bites out of their wages. The only thing we have not got a shortage of is government. Old bureaucrats never die, they simply spend away. The abolition of private property is also a socialist policy. One only has to go to a socialist state to see the end results of this blistering policy. There are no private cars, no private land, no private business, no private homes, no holidays, no dances, no parties, no wedding parties, and there is complete censorship of books, operas and plays. These are replaced by a short list of revolutionary material. Decadent Western music and literature are forbidden by law. All religion is forbidden by law. God is forbidden, Buddha is forbidden, and Mohammed is forbidden. They are not only forbidden but also they are ridiculed. 
Trade unions exist in the socialist state to ensure that the production teams meet the production goals given to them by the state. It is no wonder that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, who is also the  President  of the Australian Labor Party, has not told us about that. The trade unions in Australia have now engineered themselves into a position of being a second government. They have this Government fawning before them. They even go so far as to direct the Government as to what action they will or will not permit. I am sure we could have better relations between labour and management if we could start the Government on the road to reducing its role in the economy so that once more money will have value and stop these discreditable taxes and indirect taxes on petrol, posts, telephones, liquor and cigarettes. If we can get the Government out of here and off our backs and out of our pockets - 

 - Mr President, not only do I have no objection to tabling the notes but also I am so pleased to find that  Senator Cavanagh  is so interested in what I had to say that he wants to read my speech. I am quite willing to let him have them. 
Can the Minister for Labor and Immigration assure the Senate that there is no truth in the allegation by the Prime Minister that some union secretaries are receiving kickbacks from lawyers under the present system of compensation and insurance? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. What is the present total staff employed by Medibank? How many are temporary employees and what period does the temporary classification cover? How do the staff total and staff cost compare with the estimates before Medibank was established? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. If Medibank insurance cover applies to all Australians, why is Medibank in Queensland refusing to pay for medical services rendered by doctors to other doctors, their wives and families? 
I rise to oppose this battery of electoral redistribution Bills. I have been in the Senate for only 18 months, but ever since that time the Government has shown an unwarranted preoccupation with electoral matters. It has presented us with an unprecedented number of electoral Bills. I understood that the debate today was to be only a short one, but the speakers' list seems to have grown and contracted. My name was on it, off it, up and down it. Now I rise to speak in the debate just as it seems to be generating some heat. The Government introduces these electoral Bills with the catch cry of one vote one value. The Government is using that as a slogan. I submit that the slogan 'One vote, one value' has little meaning, apart from the fact that it is a catchcry. I should like to examine that slogan in a little more detail. Let us take the word 'vote'. The Government contends that many people in Australia are not represented in this Parliament. It cites as examples of that certain Aborigines who do not turn up to vote, certain migrants who are not registered yet, prisoners in gaol, children, people who are not on the electoral roll, and I presume people who vote informally. But I submit that those people are represented in Parliament because when a member is elected he is elected to represent all the people in his electorate. For instance, would the Government contend that because a National Country Party candidate defeated a Labor Party candidate the National Country Party member would not represent all the people who voted Labor? That is completely wrong. He represents all the people in the electorate. Let us consider the value side of the vote. Apart from the elector's ability to change his vote, the main value in a person's vote is his ability to contact his member of Parliament. 
That is what representation means.  Senator Steele  Hall said that I am a legislator, not a public person. I submit to  Senator Steele  Hall that he is a representative but he has not done any representing of his Liberal Movement in this Parliament. All he has done is attack members of the Government and the Opposition, and I think his performance as an electoral reformer stands as an example of what not to do when reforming electoral laws. I submit that the ability to communicate with your representative in Parliament is the main value of your vote, and I submit that it is a lot easier to contact your member of Parliament in a city than it is in the country. In addition to that, there are a lot more members of Parliament in a city than there are in the country areas, and if an elector in a city cannot contact his own member he can quite easily contact another member, whether he is of the same Party or not or even a member of a different House of Parliament. Certainly a city elector can make his representations to a member of Parliament a lot more easily than a country elector. 
On the matter of the value of the vote, let us assume for a moment that Labor gets this legislation passed and that all our votes are equal. In that case there would be a lot more electorates in the metropolitan areas and Sydney and Melbourne would dominate the country. In that situation, what would be the value of the vote of the person in the country? With Sydney and Melbourne running the country, his vote would not be equal; it would be valueless. 
I should like to pass on to the stupidity of wanting equal numbers of people in electorates, and there have been some practical examples given recently of just what that system has done. My loudest interjector, the honourable senator from Victoria, told us that the electoral system in the Northern Territory was his ideal because it had equal numbers of people in the electorates, whether they could vote or not. In the election conducted recently in the Northern Territory Labor did not win one seat. 
No, I submit that that is a bad thing. If there are equal numbers in each electorate- not equal voters but equal numbersthen if there is a swing against a party that party could be eliminated altogether from the Parliament. 
Certainly they did not want Labor in the Northern Territory. 
On the subject of gerrymander, let us consider the electorates in Queensland. Suppose Labor had its Bill passed and there were equal electorates in Queensland and there was a swing there such as happened at the last State election. Labor should not have gained one seat, but in fact they got 1 1 seats. They now have a cricket team in Parliament, and I submit that on that argument there was a gerrymander in Queensland in favour of Labor. 
It is obvious that Labor has been protected in Queensland from its own type of legislation. I turn now to the subject of optional preferences. This proposal is just as unrealistic as the other proposals. In reality, it is merely the introduction of first past the post voting, and we could end up with a Parliament that is completely unrepresentative of the people. For example, in Australia we have compulsory voting. If there was an electorate with, say, 100 people and 3 candidates for election, and the first candidate got 35 votes, the second candidate 33 votes and the third candidate 32 votes, on first past the post or optional preferences voting the first candidate would be elected with 35 votes. But 65 people out of that 100 did not want him. I think that is a damning argument against either optional preference or first past the post voting. It is unfair and unrealistic and it makes a mockery out of one vote, one value. 
I pass on to the idiocy of the 10 per cent tolerance that was proposed in the electoral laws and has gone into the making of these electoral boundaries. The idiocy of that proposal is highlighted by the agglomeration of the electorates of Kennedy and Maranoa in Queensland to make the huge electorate of Flynn, which under the proposals before the Senate would represent almost half the State of Queensland, with a constellation of industries serviced by a variety of admirable people, people in many different population centres- the new phrase for cities and towns- and with a great variety of differences in their community of interests. What a preposterous proposal it is that one member should service an electorate of that nature, but it does underline the hate that this Government has for people who live in the country. 
It has been unmentioned yet in this debate, but I should like to refer to the recommendation for 6 o'clock closing that was made in the electoral Bills that were passed previously. It sounds attractive. All of us have worked on booths on election day and we know what a hard, long day it is and what it is like to go into the polling booth at 8 o'clock at night and scrutinise and then struggle home late. But if we had 6 o'clock closing all the Jewish people in Australia and all the Seventh Day Adventists would be disfranchised because their religions preclude them from voting before sundown. 
On the point of order,  Mr President,  I should like to say that my point does have a lot to do with one vote, one value. If you disfranchise these people - 
The boundaries are made with a 10 per cent tolerance. 
Thank you,  Mr President.  I will connect up my remarks with the Bill. The boundaries that are proposed by this socialist Government are ones that have been constructed on a tolerance of 10 per cent difference between the numbers of people in electorates. What I was saying was that the people who are precluded from voting on election day by the fact that the booths close at 6 o'clock at night would alter the figures in that 10 per cent estimate. 
You have to have a reason for a postal vote and that is not one of them. I know it is very difficult arguing on religious matters with socialists because religion carries no weight with them, as in socialist States religion is forbidden. 
I did not refer to honourable senators on the other side of the chamber. I referred to socialist states and socialists. 
I should hate to offend honourable senators opposite on any religious subject, but I point out that in socialist states not only is all religion forbidden by law but also it is ridiculed. However, I shall return to the reason I think these Bills are being reintroduced into the Parliament. The Government knows that these Bills - 
-If I have offended the honourable senator I withdraw the remark wholeheartedly. I also apologise to him. 
In returning to the Bills, I should like to discuss briefly the reasons for their reintroduction. The Government knows that these Bills will be rejected by the Opposition. The Government must have a reason for bringing them in again. I am sure that it is the intention of the Government, in bringing forward these Bills again, to place itself in a position in which it can call for a double dissolution. All honourable senators are aware that a census is due next year. It would be the normal practice for a redistribution to follow that census. As the Bills have been brought in this way and a vote forced upon us, then so be it. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Northern Australia satisfied that the Darwin Reconstruction Commission is making a success of the task of rebuilding the cyclone wrecked city? Is there justification for the delay in granting permission for owners to repair homes? Is there good reason for the fact that so few homes have been built in the 9 months since the disaster? How many new homes will be completed before the onset of the wet season next month? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I refer to estimates of the number of school leavers who will attempt to join the work force at the end of the year and ask: Are the estimates regularly revised at the Minister's request? What is the present estimate? Does that vary from earlier estimates? Is there an estimate of the number who will return to school next year because they do not expect to be able to find jobs? 
I ask the Minister for Agriculture: Has the Government reached a decision on the Industries Assistance Commission's recommendation for the restoration of the superphosphate bounty? If not, is the recommendation one of a number by the IAC which the Minister has told the Senate he expects to be considered as a package deal? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  Does the Parliament provide a room on the Senate side of the House for television interviews? Does the use of this room carry a strict provision that it is to be used to interview only politicians? Is it a fact that on Wednesday, 1 5 October, the room was used by the0-Ten television network to interview the  President  of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Bob  Hawke? Does that constitute a blatant breach of the provisions under which the room is made available? If so, will you give serious consideration to the withdrawal of these privileges from the0-Ten network? 
-I second the amendment. This Bill seeks to have compulsory disclosure to the Government of the cost of manufacturing pharmaceuticals so that the Government can negotiate more easily with drug companies in the purchase of pharmaceuticals. The reason the Government gives for bringing in this legislation is that the Government supplies 80 per cent of dispensed medicines under its pharmaceutical benefits scheme. The Government claims that if negotiations break down between it and the pharmaceutical companies the only remedy it has is to delist the medicines from its pharmaceutical benefits, which would thereby disadvantage patients. Therefore, says the Government, it must force information out of the drug companies so that it can determine the price it shall pay for these medicines, thereby controlling the companies' profits. It is not the companies' fault that the Government supplies 80 per cent of dispensed medicines. Yet here we see the Government trying to control their profits. It is a good example of the hazards involved in negotiating with governments. The Bill would turn the Director-General of Health into virtually a drug dictator who could make or break a pharmaceutical company by using the 3 faceless men in his pricing bureau. He could create enormous unemployment and even drive a pharmaceutical company out of Australia. 
The Government obviously does not consider this to be an urgent Bill because it is acting on a report of the Joint Committee on Prices that was presented to Parliament nearly 2 years ago. The Government previously claimed that the cost of medicines was too high, but this is not so. Over the last 10 years the cost of drugs to the Government under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme has fallen by over 16 per cent- this during a time of recent rapid inflation- and during that time the cost of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme has risen enormously but the actual cost of drugs has fallen. As evidence of that I could table a graph that appears in the Health Economics Service Bulletin which is in the September issue of the journal  Modern Medicine.  I do not know whether it can be incorporated in  Hansard.  It is a simple graph, merely depicting an international comparison of the trends in prices of pharmaceuticals since 1967. It shows quite clearly that the cost of drugs in the United Kingdom and Canada has stayed about the same, the cost in Australia has fallen dramatically and costs in the United States and Sweden have risen markedly. I am quite prepared to table it for anyone who wishes to see it. The comparison shows that Australia is in an excellent position with regard to the cost of pharmaceutical drugs. However, since this Government has been running the show in Australia, the debasement of our currency has been forcing some of our drug companies into bankruptcy, with its resulting unemployment. 
The Government is inquiring at present through another of its interminable committees into the possibility of increasing drug fees in order to keep some of these drug companies in business. Drug prices have not run away over the last few years in the same way that other prices have, but the actual percentage of profit going to the drug manufacturers is falling. As  Senator Guilfoyle  has said, the Government already has access to a wealth of information on drug costs. For example, it has access to information relating to the cost of drugs from firms operating in those countries which do not subscribe to the International Patents Convention, the general wage level, the cost of packaging and marketing and so on. In addition, the Australian Taxation Office recently has been conducting an intense investigation into the affairs of twenty-eight of Australia's major drug companies, nearly all of which are multinational companies. It has been looking for double dealing by an Australian offshoot of a foreign company. The fact that these companies are multinationals must be galling to this Government. The Taxation Office has checked to see that there is no double dealing in regard to transfer prices or technical arrangements or contractual arrangements. This indicates the degree of surveillance under which these companies already operate, and indeed it is most likely that the cost of drugs now appearing on the Australian market is most reasonable. 
Already this Government's persecution of and interference with the pharmaceutical companies has threatened the very existence of the drug manufacturing industry in Australia. We have to ask ourselves: Do we want this production in Australia? Do we want its technology? Do we want its employment? Do we want its continuity of supply? There is even a defence element involved in Australia maintaining its self sufficiency in pharmaceuticals. The danger of Australia losing this production is here and now, and I cite the example of penicillin. It used to be produced in Australia by 3 companies. That number now has been reduced to two, and the second of the two companies, Abbott Laboratories Pty Ltd, has suspended production and dismissed 70 people. The Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission is the only manufacturer remaining in Australia. CSL is owned by the Government and its subsidy has been doubled in the present Budget. A report from the Industries Assistance Commission which is due shortly is to recommend the level of tariff protection for penicillin. If no protection is recommended and Australia can buy cheap penicillin from overseas, then either CSL stops making penicillin or the Government subsidy to CSL will have to be increased dramatically. That is an inexcusable position for Australia to be in. It would appear that this Government does not want Australia to have the benefits of the production, technology, employment or security of its own drug manufacturing industry. 
Under this Bill, the Director-General of Health and his three faceless men in the pricing bureau would have huge powers. For example, there would be no limitation on the amount of information required of a drug manufacturer; no reasonable time limit is placed on the manufacturer to supply the information; the overall profitability of a drug company is not allowed for in assessing the cost of any particular drug. Often it is only one or two drugs from a range of drugs that make a particular company profitable. Those drugs may have helped or even saved thousands of people, yet the Bill takes no account of the cost of research or the profitability of the pharmaceutical section of a larger company that also may produce veterinary products or have a cosmetics section. The Bill does not provide for any of the information that is forced from a drug company to remain confidential. No provision is made for an independent arbitrator. The decision on price rests entirely with the three faceless men of the pricing bureau. I wonder how constitutional it is that these 3 bureaucrats should have the power to fix prices when government price fixing is not included in the Constitution and was rejected at the last referendum. No other country in the Western world makes such demands on its drug manufacturers. 
Why is the Government bringing in this Bill now? It is acting on a two-year old report. I wonder if the Government's reasons relate to its ambition to manufacture pharmaceuticals, to provide unfair competition from a Government subsidised and supported company. As has been mentioned, the Government has just purchased Fawnmac Industries Pty Ltd, a group of 3 companies which manufacture drugs. The group of companies has been on the market for the last two or three years for $2m, yet the price released at the time the Government bought the group indicated that it paid $6m. I see in this Budget that the cost is disclosed at $8.4m, allegedly because of some agreement relating to a pricing factor. I do not think anybody in private enterprise would have paid a price like that for this company. I wonder whether it was really a good buy, or whether it was goodbye to a lot of taxpayers' money? In any case, now that the Government owns a pharmaceutical manufacturing company it is in a good position and well placed to find out the actual cost of manufacturing drugs. So why does it want this Bill? Perhaps the Government is aware of the lack of efficiency and profitability of public enterprise. Or perhaps it is because the company has few attractive sales lines and its plant is not notable. Since the purchase the previous ownership has continued in management. The manager has written to overseas drug suppliers to the effect that as the company is now an Australian Government instrumentality special treatment will be provided. Naturally, with this Government, eastern European and Chinese companies have had these letters sent to them. Why should the Government give special treatment to its Fawnmac company? 
If the Government were sincere in its desire to cut drug costs it should be looking at its own actions and not those of the private drug companies. The way to get cheap drugs is to allow the free market to operate freely, unfettered by Government interference. Some time ago the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  referred this matter to the Industries Assistance Commission, and its inquiry into pharmaceutical and veterinary products is continuing. The Australian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association has made a massive submission to the Commission, whose investigation has now expanded into a general inquiry into the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry. It cannot be unreasonable to await the Commission's report before considering this Bill, a Bill with a 2-year gestation period. If the Opposition is even to consider the Bill, major amendments will be necessary to guarantee confidentiality, and to provide for the inclusion of overall profitability, reasonable time limits, reasonable requirements on the information supplied, the question of an independent arbitrator and the role of the three faceless men in the pricing bureau. The National Country Party supports the amendment recommending that the Bill be set aside until the publication of the report by the Industries Assistance Commission. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. With the increasing importations of foodstuffs from overseas, particularly Taiwan and China, what procedures are laid down by the Department of Health for inspection of food factories in those countries? What certification do those countries supply as to standards of health and cleanliness in their food factories? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, follows his answer to the previous question on Timor in which he showed his concern for the situation there. What efforts have been made in the past 48 hours to establish the fate of the Australian television news teams which were in East Timor? Specifically, through what channels in his Department is he making inquiries? Has an official of the Australian Embassy in Jakarta arrived in Timor? 
My question to the Minister  for Minerals and Energy follows a question asked by  Senator Maunsell,  pointing out that the previous Minister for Minerals and Energy had not felt constrained to make a statement clearing the Prime Minister's name in the loans affair. I ask the Minister whether he, as the present Minister for Minerals and Energy and now having access to all the files, will make a statement clearing the Prime Minister's name. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence: How seriously damaged has our defence capacity been by the high rate of resignation of our senior and middleorder officers whose invaluable experience will be impossible to replace in the short term? What steps is the Minister taking to stem this tide of resignations and replace the deficiency? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that the Senate has already passed Supply for the Government in the amount requested by the Government to allow it to operate normally and without reduced spending until the end of November? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Some weeks ago I asked him about Medibank refusing to pay for medical services rendered by doctors to doctors and members of their families or doctors in partnership and their families, and received the reassurance from the Minister that he would see that this practice was stopped. I draw his attention to a segment of a letter from the Queensland State Manager of Medibank to a Queensland doctor dated 10 October 1975, which reads: 
Within the meaning of the Health Insurance Acts, medical expenses are not incurred in respect of professional services rendered by medical practitioners in either of the following circumstances: 
By medical practitioners to members of their own families, whether dependants or not. 
By medical practitioners, participating in a partnership, to other members of the partnership and their dependants. 
Consequently, Medibank benefits are not payable in either of these instances. 
I ask: Does Medibank provide universal cover? If so, who is right- the Minister or the Queensland State Manager of Medibank? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. It arises from figures from the Australian Bureau of Statistics showing that Australia suffered 340 industrial disputes in July- the highest number for a year. Is it a fact that the disputes were related mainly to claims for increased wages? If so, do the July facts support the Government's claim that wage indexation has encouraged wage restraint? 
My question is to the Minister for Social Security. He will be aware that the Pharmacy Guild of Australia has threatened legal action against the Government unless an arbitrator is appointed to settle the 4 matters still outstanding following consideration of the report of the Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits which dealt with pricing arrangements. He will also be aware that the original agreement of 1972 between the Government and the Pharmacy Guild that an arbitrator be appointed without delay was confirmed in February 1973. Will a decision be made before the expiry tomorrow of the 21 days notice given by the Pharmacy Guild that unless an arbitrator is appointed legal action will be taken? 
Is the Minister for Manufacturing Industry taking action to prevent a shortage of a wide range of clothing and manchester goods predicted for early next year? What action is he taking to eradicate bottle-necks in his Department that are delaying the granting of quotas and causing unreasonable hardship for both manufacturers and retailers, and also are responsible for the predicted shortages? 
-May I take this opportunity from the floor of the House to congratulate you,  Mr President,  on your elevation to the presidency of the Senate. I thank you very much for your kindness, your courtesy, your consideration and your advice during the last 1 8 months. I share the confidence of other honourable senators in your tenure in that office. I would also like to congratulate  Senator DrakeBrockman  on his election as  Chairman  of Committees. In the time I have known him I have found him to be a politician's politician. I am sure that if this Parliament had in it more men like  Senator Drake-Brockman  it would be a happier place. 
I would like also to welcome the new members of the Senate. This is an august chamber and there is a lot to learn in it. There is an old adage that not all the good politicians are on one side of the House and not all the good policies are on one side of the House. Certainly the new senators will get their opportunity to test the truth or otherwise of that. I would like also to congratulate the new senators who have already made their maiden speeches in this chamber. I think they have shown us already that they have a wealth of talent to bring to this chamber. I look forward to the transfusion of knowledge that they will bring us. 
Nearly every Opposition  speaker  in the debate on the Address-in-Reply has started with a sense of outrage about the events that took place at the end of last year when the Government changed hands. Honourable senators opposite were outraged and said that democracy had been raped and that the Constitution had been torn up. I do not share their sense of outrage with them. I have listened to all their arguments. Indeed I think at that time what we saw was democracy in action. I think we saw the Constitution working for the people of Australia. The fact is that the ex-Prime Minister was sacked and he was sacked because he would not call an election. The election was obviously necessary because of the impasse that had developed in the Parliament. But the Prime Minister felt he could go on and govern without Supply and without the support of the Parliament. I notice in some of his speeches the source of the outrage seems to be that the Governor-General did not give the previous Prime Minister a warning that if he did not settle the crisis that had occurred in the Parliament he would sack him. But I suggest that had the Governor-General given the former Prime Minister a warning such as that, the Governor-General himself would have been sacked and the political situation in Australia would have turned into a debacle. The Senate has been told already that it was 300 years ago when the Parliament fought its battle against the divine right of kings. Last November and December this Parliament fought its battle against the divine right of the Prime Minister. The Parliament won that battle. 
I have noticed Opposition senators saying that they now fear for the future of parliamentary democracy and the protection of minorities. I remind the Senate that I first came to this Parliament after a double dissolution when a Joint Sitting of the Parliament was called. It was a time when the nation politically was virtually equally divided in half. It was a time when the numbers in the Parliament were almost equally divided in half. To get his Bills through, the then Prime Minister had to call a Joint Sitting of the Parliament and with the slender majority that he had he rammed through 5 revolutionary Bills at a time when any sensible government would have known to tread lightly. What happened to the huge minority in that case? That shows that the Opposition believes that majority rule is parliamentary democracy, which is not so because majority rule simply means that the guy with the biggest gang is calling the tune. 
As a further explanation of the events that took place at that time, we all know that the Senate has  S  main functions and that the function it was performing then was that of informing itself and the people about the administration of the country. The Senate has a duty to inform the people if it finds evidence of maladministration in the country, and the Senate had found ample evidence of gross maladministration and mismanagement in the country. I do not want to be accused of tedious repetition by mentioning at length the inflation, the high interest rates, the unemployment, the Budget deficits, the rural recession, the defence run-down and the blunders of the tariff decisions that virtually wrecked our textile, footwear and electronics industries and some of our clothing industries and created more unemployment. I could mention also the policies that had our mining industry on its knees. We all know that the mining industry has been a front row industry in the development of any country and especially in the development of this country. No new mine has opened in the country in the last 3 years and not one new well has been drilled for oil or gas in the last 3 years. 
We had one affair after another, going back to the Gair affair which was really a sleazy attempt by the then Prime Minister to gain control of this Senate. That showed that he knew the importance of the Senate. We had the Gair affair, the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation affair, the Croatian affair, the Morosi affair and the Cairns, Crean, Connor, Cass and Cope affairs, culminating eventually in the loans affair which was really the precipitating factor in the dismissal of the then Government. It would appear that the repercussions from the loans affair are not yet over. The then Prime Minister was junketing around the world when his country was rocked with disasters. There was a complete reversal of our foreign policy away from our traditional friends of the United Kingdom, the United States, South Africa and Rhodesia. We had the heartless decision on the Baltic states. We had turned round and were making friends with all those countries which do not even have an Opposition, but I suspect that that is the sort of government that the Opposition would like to see in this country. I submit that the Senate had not only the right but also the duty to take the action that it did to block Supply. There was no plot and there was no coup. The Senate was satisfied that the Government was acting without the support of the Parliament or the people, and the Senate's view was vindicated at the subsequent election. I submit that there was then no threat to democracy and that there is now no threat to democracy. 
Many Opposition senators have said that running through the Governor-General's address is a vein of philosophy that causes them grave concernthe fact that the big central bureaucracy is to be limited, the fact that the wholesale dependence of people on the Government is to be limited and the fact that resources are to be directed away from the Government and back to private enterprise. I think it has become increasingly obvious all round the world that big government is the cause of our economic problems. One can look at any country that has big government and one will find it in economic trouble. So the obvious solution is to have less government, and that is the solution for which the present Government is searching. 
The point I made was that all the countries with big government were doing badly. I could refer to the Cocos Islands as a prosperous place. The Opposition has cited inequitable subsidies to rural industry which it says are disadvantaging other people. Opposition senators have referred to wool export price maintenance, the fertiliser subsidy and several other matters; but they have failed to mention that the manufacturing industries in our big cities have grown up over the years under the shelter of a huge tariff protection that gave them higher wages, a higher standard of living and an umbrella that could not be extended to cover the rural sector. Even today the extent of that tariff protection is about $4,000m a year, and to offset that figure the subsidy to rural industry is merely hundreds of millions of dollars a year. 
Opposition senators have said that business is not confident now that there has been a change in government. That is not my experience. Nearly every businessman to whom I have spoken feels that a great weight has gone from his back and is attacking the future with confidence. The Opposition is now saying that our Government is trying to crawl behind overseas inflation rates as a cause of inflation here. I listened to  Senator Bishop  reading the statement of our Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  I did not read into that statement the same inference as he did. Indeed, at the time of Australia's most rapid inflation we were sheltered from overseas inflation because that was caused by a huge rise in world oil prices. The Opposition says that the options open to us to fix unemployment are exactly the same as they were when it was in power. That is not so. I am sure that the stimulus to business will create many more job opportunities than ever would occur under a Labor government, until of course it achieved its ideal socialist state where there is no unemployment. The Opposition is frightened that we will slash public spending in our efforts. I think 'slash' is a harsh word to use in the circumstances, but it is important - 
Pensioners have not been slashed. It is important to remember that public spending is non-productive spending and is selfdefeating, and this Government is taking the opposite course. It has been alleged that we will smash wage indexation. We certainly will not. The Government is committed to wage indexation. Some people would even go so far as to say that wage indexation is a commitment to future inflation. Nevertheless, the Government is committed to it and is taking a reasonable and responsible stance on it. The Government is committed to tax indexation, but the extent to which it will be able to index tax next August will be affected adversely by the decision that was taken on the wages issue. Nevertheless, the Government is still determined that it will smash inflation. 
There has been a claim that the recent short term bond issue was a mistake. It was a short, sharp shock to mop up liquidity. It lasted only 13 days and the average take-up of bonds was $6,000-worth, which could not be considered excessive with such an attractive rate of interest. Whether it was a success or a failure, it highlights the dangers of government meddling in our economy. A scathing attack was launched on our policy of reducing the Budget deficit, but I submit that no family can operate if it draws up a budget, overspends and then just prints the rest of the money it needs.  I  think that the policy to curtail the Budget deficit as much as we can is a good one. There was concern that our cost of investment allowance had not been costed and that in any case it did not help small business. But I suggest that it must be better than taxing small business out of existence. I noted that an Opposition senator stated that the number of bankruptcies in small business actually fell during the term of office of the previous Government. 
That is quite right, but it is because not so many started during the previous Government's term of office because of the lack of confidence in that Government. We have been accused of being a sectional Government and of not being interested in the ordinary man. I do not believe that is true. What this present Government is doing is searching for solutions to the problem which are different from those that would satisfy the Opposition. I remember that I warned the Opposition, I think during my maiden speech, of the dangers of the Robin Hood philosophy of robbing the rich to give to the poor. Even if you do that you must remember that Robin Hood was a hood, and a country cannot be run like that. 
The Government has been told that it has lost the co-operation of the unions and that this will have a devastating effect on the economy of the country. With our new initiatives in industrial relations I look forward to good relations with the unions. With the introduction of secret ballots and a little democracy in union representation, I look forward to a dramatic change in the relationship between the employers, the Government and the unions. 
It has been said that the Government will virtually destroy the Australian Heritage Commission. That is not so. Opposition senators claim that active Government intervention in the Australian Heritage Commission is warranted to look after the national shrines of the country. I do not believe that the Government has a huge role to play in this field. What the Government should do is to provide an easy way for people to be able to retain sites and buildings that bear on our national heritage. It is said by the Opposition that the creative arts are doomed in Australia. I do not know what the Government has to do with creative arts. Indeed, I think that most of the artistic creations in the world were achieved under the private enterprise system. Nevertheless, if Opposition senators look at what is happening at the moment they will find that spending on overseas art has been cut but that spending on Australian art and artists has gone up. With any luck we will not have to put up with any more of these tawdry paintings from overseas. 
I was surprised to hear  Senator James  McClelland refer to Ayn Rand as having written the Prime Minister's gospel. I was not particularly surprised that it could have been the Prime Minister's gospel; I was surprised that  Senator James  McClelland had ever heard of it.  Senator James  McClelland did not seem to have reached any conclusions that had any bearing on what this author has written. It seemed to me that his mind was muscle bound from jumping to conclusions. He said that her philosophy was that the rich were not responsible for the poor; that the healthy were not responsible for the sick; that the whites were not responsible for the blacks or, vice versa, that the blacks were not responsible for the whites. This is completely wrong. How could all the healthy be responsible for all the sick, or all the rich be responsible for all the poor, or all the whites be responsible for all the blacks? This was not her philosophy at all. Ayn Rand was one of the original thinkers of a new philosophy. She showed in her books the virtues of selfishness. She illustrated the untried ideal of capitalism.  Her  teaching was one of rational selfinterest and objectivism. 
I would recommend for the further edification of  Senator James  McClelland that he should read books by Hayek, Von Mises and Professor Murray Rothbard. I hope that he does not reach the same erroneous conclusions from reading them. 
I look forward to the implementation of the policies expounded in the Governor-General's address. I support  Senator Knight's  resolution, and I think that the implementations of the policies contained in the Governor-General 's Speech will direct us towards a new liberty and a new prosperity. I have pleasure in supporting the resolution. 
I present the following petition from 2858 electors of Queensland: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned electors of Queensland respectfully showeth- 
That the three Service cadet forces have great value in the development of the youth of Australia. 
That the disbanding of the cadet forces will disperse accumulated expertise and interest of those involved, and in some cases negate the efforts of many people over many years. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will reinstate the cadet forces. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security in her capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Health. I understand that, under the last Federal Government, the policy was that family planning clinics opened following federal funding were to provide their services free of charge. Is this the policy of the present Government or will these family planning clinics be able to charge for their services? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. It appears that by maintaining trade sanctions against Rhodesia we Australians are condoning communist inspired terrorism in that country on the grounds that Rhodesia represents a threat to world peace. By maintaining these sanctions are we not giving our green light to further communist attacks? If so, can the sanctions be removed? 
I take this opportunity of discussing the confrontation that exists between the Third World and the First World because during recent months it has shown a marked change and an important change so far as the rest of the world is concerned. A new phase has opened. I should like to take a look at the origin of the confrontation, its nature and the way it has developed. As recently as 1968 the American Ambassador to the United Nations published that he felt the political and economic idiosyncrasies of the Third World should not be treated as though they would have a marked impact on the balance of world power. In the event, they have been treated just so. 
Those idiosyncrasies, now, have turned into a monstrous burlesque. For example, last October President Idi Amin of Uganda attended the United Nations as Head of the Organisation of African Unity. The United Nations is a global organisation designed to promote world peace and international discourse. Idi Amin was accepted there, despite a 63-page report from the International Commission of Jurists detailing his reign of terror in Uganda, his repeated violation of human rights, his expulsion of 50 000 Indians and the mass murder of more than 100 000 of his citizens. 
Idi Amin heads the Organisation of African Unity which is a group of some 3 dozen nations comprising by far the greatest proportion of the less developed nations. Idi Amin left his less developed nation in his own private jet and went to New York. He was preceded by a group of Ugandan dancers and bongo drummers. He also sent ahead a herd of goats to add an exotic flavour to his reception at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. The Americans, with an odd sense of discrimination, refused entry to the goats. Idi Amin sat on the floor of the General Assembly of the United Nations, to one side. He was wearing his self-appointed Field Marshall's uniform and his self-awarded Victoria Cross.  His  speech, which lasted 90 minutes, was read by his Ambassador. It was a tirade repeatedly attacking Great Britain and calling for the extinction of Israel. It was so bad that the Ambassadors of both those countries left the Assembly. 
These events would not have caused much note except that this time the West reacted and the United States Ambassador,  Mr Moynihan,  got up and defended the stand of the West. He said that in future spokesmen for the West would have to be feared more for the truths they would tell. The United Nations consists of 142 member nations. Of this number only 24 are democracies. By far the greatest number of nations are either totalitarian states- communist or socialist- or ancient or modern dictatorships. I should not say dictatorships; I should describe them as despotisms. I fear it is no accident that Idi Amin is the  President  of the Organisation of African Unity. The First World consists of the industrialised developed West. The Second World is the Soviet bloc. The Third World consists of the less developed nations. The Chinese, for ideological rather than economic reasons, want to lead the Third World of less developed nations. The pitiful circumstances of some of the Third World citizens cannot be denied. 
In 1960 the United Nations started its first decade of development. The idea was to lift the gross national product of these countries to 5 per cent a year. By 1970 the decade of development had not even got off the ground so the United Nations started another decade of development. By 1975 this plan had not got so far as lifting these countries even 3 per cent a year. Meanwhile, their populations have continued to rocket. Inflation and, recently, runaway fuel prices have compounded their problem. These United Nations programs have failed to meet the crisis in these nations much as similar programs in both Russia and China have failed. I think this demonstrates the futility of introducing legislation to try to fix these problems. Also, it shows the dangers of interference by governments in the economies of countries. 
There are 4 billion people on this earth. Half of them- that is 2 billion- live on incomes of less that $200 a year. Of this poorer 2 billion people, hundreds of millions live in situations which are incomparably worse off as they are on incomes of less than $75 a year. These are the absolute poor of the world. They live in an atmosphere of hunger, want and hopelessness which is beyond any rational form of human dignity. Their plight is manifest. It is natural that their leaders should want to come together to improve their lot. The course which their leaders have taken over the years has gone from one of irrationality to what is now a tragic farce. I shall give honourable senators some recent examples. In 1972 the United Nations called a conference on the human environment. It was held at Stockholm. The United States and its co-sponsors thought that this was a field for fertile co-operation between the nations. But immediately that conference opened it was turned into a bitter political conflict. The Brazilians claimed that the conference was a conspiracy of the haves against the have nots. They said that the rich nations got rich by polluting their environments and that the conference was a plot to prevent the poor from trying to get rich by stopping them polluting their environments. They said that the conference was a plot to perpetrate the monopoly of the rich and that all the First World wanted was to exploit the poor nations, not help them. 
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of India squealed: 'Are not poverty and need the greatest polluters?' Yet shortly she was to turn her country into a naked despotism. She also stated that ecology and the problems of ecology were distracting India from the problems of the war and poverty. At this environmental conference apartheid was brought in. The discussion was elevated above garbage disposal and the problems of indisposible industrial waste to the rarified atmosphere of political ethics. That conference declared as its first principle that man had the fundamental right to freedom, to equality and to adequate conditions of life in an environment of quality, permitting a life of dignity and well being with a solemn responsibility to protect and improve the environment for present and future generations. It went on to state: 
In this respect policies promoting or perpetuating apartheid, racial segregation, discrimination, colonial and other forms of oppression and foreign domination stand condemned and must be eliminated. 
That conference ended in 1974. The United Nations convened the World Population Conference in Bucharest. This was occasioned because of the rocketing populations of these countries. China had a population of 800 million. Over some years it had started family planning which was having some degree of success. India, with a population of 550 million, was in a much more acute position because it is only one-third the size of China. The conference was regarded as a substantial advance. Ground rules and a plan of action had been worked out. The idea was to reduce the population growth in less developed countries from 34 per thousand a year to 30 per thousand a year. This seemed moderate and reasonable enough. But it was not for the less developed countries and the communists. President Ceausescu of Romania opened the conference and declared that the division of the world into developed and under-developed nations was a result of historical evolution and was a direct consequence of capitalist, imperialist and neo-colonialist policies of exploitation of many peoples. He called for a new economic order and rejected a pessimistic outlook on population growth. The Indian representative denounced the colonial denudation of the East and the vulgar affluence of the West. The Chinese saw population control as fundamentally subversive to the Third World and stated: 
The bright future of the Third World could only be spoilt by the Imperialists- 
That is the West-  and the  Hegemonists- 
That is the Soviets. The Chinese representative declared that population control was their wrecking device. The upshot of the whole conference was that the Third World demanded that economic development in the West should cease and that the wealth of the world should bc redistributed. 
Debate interrupted. 
-When this debate was interrupted last night I was discussing the confrontation which exists between the Third World and the First World and the change which has taken place in that confrontation over the last 6 months. I was discussing the nature of the confrontation, its origins and its development. I pointed out to honourable senators the cruel clowning of Idi Amin, the  President  of Uganda, at the United Nations 6 months ago. I drew attention to the repeated insults which he made to Great Britain and Israel, to such an extent that the ambassadors of those countries left the General Assembly. I mention that there was a difference this time because after that speech a spokesman for the West, for the first time, spoke out in defence of the achievements of the West. I pointed out to honourable senators that the United Nations consists of 142 members of which only 24 are democracies. I mentioned that the rest are either totalitarian states- communist or socialist- or ancient or modern despotisms. 
I said that I thought it was no accident that Idi Amin is the leader of the Organisation of African Unity, because that Organisation represents by far the greatest proportion of the less developed countries. I pointed out that the First World consists of the industrialised and developed West: the Second World represents the Soviet bloc; and the Third World represents the newly emerging, under and less developed countries. 1 stated that China, for ideological more than economic reasons, sought to lead the Third World. I went through portion of the history of events in the United Nations since 1960 when the problems of these less developed countries were realised. In 1960 the United Nations started its first decade of development with the object of raising the gross national product of these unfortunate nations to 5 per cent a year. But this scheme did not get off the ground. So in 1970 a second decade of development was started. But even by 1975 the best rate these countries could achieve was still less than 3 per cent. In the meantime the populations of these countries had rocketed and inflation and runaway oil prices had compounded the problem. 
I pointed out that all these programs had failed, as had similar programs in both Russia and China- indicating the futility of legislation in trying to fix these problems and showing the dangers of government interference with the economy. There are 4 billion people on the earth. Of that number, 2 billion subsist on an annual income of less than $200. Of that 2 billion, hundreds of millions are incomparably worse off. There are 900 million people who live on an annual income of less than $75. They live in an atmosphere of squalor, hunger and hopelessness. They are the absolute poor. They live in conditions which are below any rational standard of human decency. Their plight is manifest. The fact that their leaders should come together to try to improve their lot is understandable. But, the way they have chosen, confrontation with the First World has proceeded over the years from irrationality at the beginning to what is now tragic farce. 
I gave honourable senators some recent examples of the macabre burlesque which is going on. In 1972 the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment was called in Stockholm. The United States and its co-sponsors expected that they had found a field for fertile cooperation; but immediately, the conference was turned into a bitter political conflict. The Brazilians considered that it was a conspiracy between the haves and the have-nots. They said that the rich had got rich by polluting their environment and that those countries were trying to stop the poorer nations from getting rich by polluting their environments. They said that the conference was nothing but a plot to perpetuate the monopoly of the rich nations over the poor nations. The Brazilians said that the First World did not want to help the Third World but merely wished to exploit it. I mentioned Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, who was shortly to turn her nation into a naked despotism. She asked: 'Are not poverty and need the greatest polluters?' She said that the problems of ecology were distracting India from the problems of war and poverty. At the conference even apartheid was brought in, which elevated the discussion from garbage removal and the problems of the disposal of indisposable industrial waste to the rarified level of political ethics. 
The conference declared as its first principle that man had the fundamental right to freedom, equality and adequate conditions of life in an environment of quality, permitting a life of dignity and wellbeing with a solemn responsibility to protect and improve the environment for present and future generations. The declaration went on to state: 
In this respect policies promoting or perpetuating apartheid, racial segregation, discrimination, colonial and other forms of oppression and foreign domination stand condemned and must be eliminated. 
In 1974 the United Nations called another conferencethe World Population Conference in 
Bucharest. This was because of the rocketing populations of these less developed countries. China, with its 800 million people, had tried to limit its population. It was unsuccessful, but nevertheless it tried. But India was having far more problems because although its population was only 550 million- if one can use the word only' in relation to a figure like that- its area is one-third the area of China. The conference was regarded as a substantial advance. Guidelines were established beforehand, and a plan of action was drafted. The idea was to reduce the birthrates in these countries from 34 per 1000 of population to 30 per 1000 of population by the year 1985. This all seemed reasonable enough and moderate enough- but not for the less developed countries and the communists. 
President Ceausescu of Romania, who opened that conference, declared that the division of the world into developed and under-developed nations is a result of historical evolution and is a direct consequence of capitalist, imperialist and neo-colonialists policies of exploitation of many people. He called for a new economic order and rejected a pessimistic outlook on population growth. The Indian representative denounced the colonial denudation of the East and the vulgar affluence of the West. The Chinese saw population control as fundamentally subversive to the Third World and said that the bright future of the Third World could be spoilt only by the imperialists- that is the West- and the hegemonists, the Soviets. They declared that population control was their wrecking device. The upshot of this conference was a demand that economic development in the West cease and that the wealth of the world be redistributed. Through all this, and over the years, the Third World had the support of the West's massive guilt complex. After Bucharest, a United Nations publication called the  Development Forum  was put out. In a section of that publication entitled Eating Little Children', it was maintained that we in the West, by our huge consumption of meat, were depriving the children of the poorer countries of the cereals that would save them from dying of malnutrition. It said that we were cannibals, albeit indirectly. 
When the World Food Conference was called in 1973 the Indian spokesman declared that the developed nations could be held responsible for the plight of the less developed countries and, therefore, the developed countries had a duty to help them. This help was not to be regarded as charity but as deferred compensation. In 1974 the United Nations approved a charter of the economic rights and duties of states. It provided for 5 things: First, the right to nationalise foreign property; second, the payment of compensation according to national law and not international law; third, the formation of producer cartels, similar to the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries cartel; fourth, the faster distribution of wealth from the rich nations to the poor nations; and, fifth, the faster distribution of technology from the rich to the poor nations. Peking, at this time, was saying that the new majority had written a brilliant chapter and it was sweeping ahead under full sail while the ship of imperialism and hegemonism foundered. As I was saying, the West has started to hit back, speaking of the tyranny of this new majority and the need to challenge the coalition between the communists and the Third World. 
I think there is some profit to be gained in looking at the motivation of the Third World and its conduct. It appears that in recent times- by recent times' I mean, say, since about the time of the discovery of Australia- there have been 3 huge revolutionary movements in the world. The first was connected with the French and American revolutions which sought to throw off autocratic and aristocratic government and to replace it with what might be called minimal government. There was the realisation that countries were better off if the government interfered less in the business of the people. There was created what might be called a minimal state. In this century there has been another huge revolutionary movement- the Russian and Chinese revolutions. They, too, were designed to throw off autocratic and aristocratic rule. But in this revolution total state government was imposed. During this century another revolution has been going on unnoticed. It has been going on more or less offstage. It is what I call the British revolution. The British revolution started just before the turn of the century with the formation of the Fabian Society in London. A group of young intellectuals got together. It consisted of Graham Wallas, Beatrice and Sidney Webb, George Bernard Shaw and other intellectuals. They propounded the philosophy that private ownership should be superseded by public ownership, that production for profit should be replaced by production for use, that competition should be replaced by co-operation, that individual benefit should be replaced by common benefit, and that industry should be subject to collective and democratic control. Generally, the socialist characterised himself or herself by his or her commitment to fellowship. If we look at all these revolution in historical perspective, we can see the Hegelian dialectic in operation: The first revolution bringing about the minimal state, the second revolution bringing about the total state and in the synthesis between the two one can see the welfare state of Great Britain coming about. 
But there are 2 important points in the British doctrine. The first one is its bias against economic development. The fundamental assertion of the British doctrine was that there was plenty of wealth to go around if only it was fairly distributed. Redistribution and not production was central to its theme and profit became synonomous with exploitation. The second point was that British socialism was more antiAmerican than it was anti-Soviet because America was the quintessence of capitalism. The British thought they were making a revolution just for Britain. So they were and the Tories half agreed with them. But they were making much more. During the first half of this century the influence of Britain abroad was much greater than that of any other country. The new political philosophy was carried to Europe and socialist parties sprang up in one country after another. More importantly than that, it was carried to Britain's colonies. At this time, the British empire covered a quarter of the earth's surface and it was spread to the farthest corners of the earth. Countless numbers of people came from the colonies to Britain to attain a higher education, and there they came into contact with this Fabian socialism, particularly if they had any contact with the London School of Economics. The pattern of thinking of the elite who were to gain control in these dependencies was prescribed in this way. 
The worldwide British revolution really got under way in 1947 when the socialist British Government gave independence to the socialist Indian Government. The approach has been continued subsequently under successful Conservative governments. The colonies one after the other were emancipated by socialist-inspired means and with socialist-inspired constitutions, until in 1974, 47 of the 87 states which had joined the United Nations since its foundation were previously British colonies. The non-British colonies were also influenced by this Fabianism. The situation now is that these less developed countries numerically dominate all world forums that are characterised by universal membership. The Third World has been very quick to convert the precepts of Fabian socialism to its own purposes. For example, the idea of independence from autocratic and aristocratic rule has been changed to a demand for independence from colonial masters. The opposition to class discrimination has been changed to an opposition to racial discrimination. The idea of workers being exploited by the capitalists has been changed to exploitation of the colonies by the capitalist nations. 
The Third World now claims a right to share in the wealth of others. British socialism on its own was prepared to forget the past and to go on, but not the Third World and the communists. The Third World demands revenge, reparations and something akin to looting. It is now easy to see why America, representing capitalism, and South Africa, representing discrimination, are the targets of the Third World. It is easy to explain the loudmouthed self- righteousness of the less developed countries and the guilt complex of the West leading to its pandering and kowtowing to these nations which have led to the monstrous burlesque. I spoke about it before. Let us take a look at what justification there is for this guilt complex in the West. One has only to look around these newly emerging nations to see that the benefits which the colonising nations received were well matched by the benefits they bestowed on their colonies. Certainly they could have done more, but without the coming of the white man there would have been no development at all. One should look at the nations that have been colonised and those that have not. It is the nations which have not been colonised that are poorer, such as Libya, Liberia and Ethiopa. Those nations are poor. The ones that have been colonised are much better off. It was the Liberian Ambassador to the United Nations who likened the situation in his nation to that of a man who had to build his own house from the ground up compared with a man who was left a large inheritance. Many of these nations are grateful. 
Socially, they were given health benefits and education benefits which they would otherwise not have had. Politically, they were given the idea of modern administrations, an independent judiciary and democratic government. But they have all chosen not to follow those ideas and they have returned to despotism. It is true that, if the white man had not come, there would be no population problem in the lesser developed countries. The high death rate at binh, short life, plagues, pestilence, floods, disease and internecine wars would have kept the population stable as they did for countless centuries. 
The joint Third World-communist coalition is immoral when it is judged by the conditions which exist within its own ranks. For example, in the Third World nations there are some with thrusting economies such as Singapore and Brazil. There are others like the Arab States, rich from oil, where the per capita income is $5,000 a year compared with India just over the water, with a population 100 times as great and a per capita income of less .than $200 a year. There is a gross imbalance of wealth within the less developed countries .themselves. Most of the wealth is fructifying in the pockets of cliques which by hook or by crook have assumed control. 
The communists pretend to be the champions of the Third World and they lead the attack on the Western world, yet the West gives over $ 1 2 billion in aid to the Third World, the communists give $1.4 billion and the Arabs, who pretend to be friends of the Third World, put up the price of oil, adding $10 billion to the burden which the Third World has to carry, virtually wiping out all our foreign aid. There is no good cause for the West 's guilt complex. 
I think that we should take a more realistic and objective view of our relationship with the less developed countries. This does not involve quality judgments. I think that we would all be prepared to concede that those countries may have some cultural aspects which are superior to our own, but in technology the West is incomparably superior, and the whole issue turns on technologythe ability to turn resources into wealth. The West has done this by its own ingenuity and effort. This is not a cause for shame. On this key issue the West holds all the trumps and it should play its hand accordingly, with strength. A cringing posture, as though it is an offence to bc ingenious, progressive and prosperous, invites a crooked deal. We should stand up for our own rights and achievements. We should throw off this habit of appeasement. We will gain the respect of other nations when we have regained our own. 
There are 5 incontrovertible facts that everyone should know. khe first is that there is no limitless source of wealth waiting for redistribution. Prosperity depends on production. Second, socialism has failed as a producer of wealth, and it stands out there in the world as an abject failure for all to see. How can it work in the less developed countries? Look at what it has done to Great Britain. Since Great Britain espoused this nonsense its share of the world cake has been halved. Third, economic growth does not depend on Western conspiracies but on its own laws, and that it is not an egalitarian process. Fourth, the lesser developed countries are operating on imported ideas. They cannot progress until these are replaced by their own indigenous ideas. Last. development rests not on aid but self exertionon ingenuity, organisations, conservation and above all, work. 
We should not confuse our idea of liberty with that of other people. Liberty is a subjective commodity. Our espousal of it has led to pockets of permissiveness, licence, anarchy, obscenity and degradation. Other people's ideas of liberty may be a lot more healthy for them than ours. Our ideas of liberty are no more indigenous to Zaire, say, than are the Fabian socialist's ideas of socialism. Therefore if we are to solve the problem we must forget all about ideological solutions. We should all live according to our own lights and co-operate as separate political communities on the basis of objective and demonstrable common interests. 
At the centre of all this lies the United Nations. It is an example of the prime illusion that others are able to operate effectively in institutions which do not correspond in origin, nature, tradition or design to their own. The United Nations was designed on Western concepts of liberty and decision-making, especially decision by majority vote. It is the ultimate paradox that the less developed countries reject and denigrate the system of one man one vote in their own countries but they demand and exploit the right of one state one vote in the General Assembly because they do not understand democracy's ground rules. They demand and exploit that vote despite the disparity in their powers, their resources, their experience, their responsibilities and their contributions. 
The world is not a democratic world. It is not a world of Western civil liberties. Attempts to make it so have proved a disastrous failure. These illusions, embodied in the United Nations, have shaped and precipitated the present absurd world situation. There is no possibility of organising international affairs by a majority vote in a global organisation. Inter-state relations must relate to real considerations- a regional grouping of states- based on common resources, common problems, common technology and common economic advantage. Whatever the political costume of the players, here is the theatre for co-operation, consultation and collaboration. It is the basic building block for a workable world where interest cuts across ideology. Global conferences, resolutions and declarations will not bring world order. Regional states will compact, consolidate and grow in their mutual self interest. If we can gain our selfrespect vis-a-vis the rest of the world and foster this new development, then we shall see a new world order. I think that if that happens the 
United Nations will be outflanked, isolated and redundant. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Medibank officials have taken it upon themselves to notify their claimants whenever Medibank rebates fall below 85 per cent of the schedule fee- a fee which is not recognised by most practising doctors and which does not appear to be related to any practical consideration. As both Medibank and the private funds gap benefits are related to this schedule, why has Medibank assumed this mischievous obligation when the private funds have not? 
I rise to lend the support of the National Country Party to these 2 Bills- the Social Services Amendment Bill 1976 and the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill 1976. These Bills promise huge amounts of money. They are large, realistic and most generous amounts of money. They are in line with the Government's promises to increase all sorts of pension rates and they are designed to maintain the real value of those pensions. I am surprised to hear that perhaps pensions are not geared to a 6 monthly increase. I understood that they were. Not only that, but also they are geared to rises in the consumer price index. I heard that the aged, the sick and the disadvantaged are not included. I point out to  Senator McAuliffe  who has just spoken that 5 rates of pensions are mentioned as being upgraded substantially. The first is the standard rate of pension for aged persons, invalids, widows and supporting mothers. The next is the married rate pension. The next pension increase is the unemployment and sickness benefit which is paid to unmarried persons aged 18 years or more. The next increase is in the unemployment and sickness benefits payable to married persons. Then, additional unemployment and sickness benefits payable in respect of dependent spouses are to be increased. 
All those benefits will flow on to people in sheltered employment circumstances. So, generous allowances are made in these 2 Bills. The Government's big problem is inflation. The Government has set about inflation with a will and with determination. It will fix inflation as best it can. But inflation is like a loaded truck running downhill. One cannot pull it up in one fell swoop. It is a robber which robs earnings and savings. Most of all, it robs those people least able to find any protection from inflation- the people on pensions and fixed incomes. They are the people who have been disadvantaged most by the huge and almost uncontrolled inflation which we experienced under the Labor Government. In these Bills a large number of people have been made eligible for pension benefits because limits on their income and property which existed before have been elevated substantially. This has extended the benefits to many more people who are in disadvantaged circumstances. 
The only sour note in the Bill- I confess it- is the provision to abolish the funeral benefit. At first sight this appears harsh. But the Government has put its explanation for doing this. It appears harsh on those people who can least afford it. It was an unattractive decision; nevertheless the Government made that decision. It knew fully how unpopular the decision would be and how badly it would be received. Nevertheless, the Government went ahead and made that decision. It was a courageous act. These Bills allow for a huge amount of money to go to people who need it most. My Party supports the Bills and rejects the amendment. 
Sitting suspended from 5.44 to 8 p.m. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. In view of Australia's proud record in medical research and the need to attract to Australia high quality medical teachers and research workers, and also in view of the parlous plight of Australia's economy, what is the current position regarding the availability of adequate funds for our various medical research programs? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters. Is the Minister aware that since the introduction of flexi-hours in the Commonwealth Public Service by the Labor Government there have been reports that it is causing inconvenience to the public through lack of continuity in work by public servants going off work during normal hours, and that time is wasted by public servants arriving at work before normal working hours and having little to do? Can the Minister indicate whether the introduction of flexi-hours has been a success or is it a waste of time and money and should it be scrapped? 
I present a progress report from the Senate Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement relating to the report. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the number of applications received from persons wishing to migrate to Australia from- 
a ) the United Kingdom, and 
European countries, since 1 January 1976. 
What number of applications have been approved from- t a ) the United Kingdom, and 
b) European countries, since I January 1976. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, by stating that in the period 1 July 1974 to 30 June 1975 approximately 4400 women employed under the Commonwealth Public Service Act commenced maternity leave, at a cost of approximately $7m. Does the Minister have any idea of the current position? Does the Government plan any modification of the maternity leave provisions of the Act? 
Members of the Labor Party contend that  Senator Button  is a hard act to follow. I assure them that  Senator Wheeldon  is an even harder act to follow. I might just mention a few of the points that he made in his speech. The first one was that he and his Party think that the philosophy that good government is good business has gone out. I cannot agree with him at all. He says that he does not believe in the philosophy of Ayn Rand. He is perfectly entitled to his own belief. I just think more is the pity.  Senator Wheeldon  says that the public sector is the only sector that can do certain things for our society. He seems to think that the Labor Party has a monopoly on charity and doing good works for the halt, the lame, the sick, the blind and the poor. I can assure him that is not so because the only way to be able to afford charity is to be able to afford it. 
The public sector has no money of its own; only money that it gets from taxpayers. The charity that the public sector hands out is something of a permanent nature and makes people more dependent on government, whereas charity that is handed out by the private sector is more temporary and more dignified than any government charity.  Senator Wheeldon  made the point that various governments around the world were given differing advice from differing economic advisers on whether they should spend their way out of trouble or stop spending. I think that is indicative that no government knows how to handle the economy, and the sooner governments remove themselves from the economy the happier people will be. 
At the moment we are debating approximately a dozen Bills which are part of the economic package put forward last week by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on behalf of the Government. Honourable senators are discussing sections of the package in which they have a particular interest. The section in which I have a particular interest is the Medibank section which consists of 3 Bills and allied taxation Bills which allow the implementation of the 3 main Bills. The new systems is due to come into operation on 1 October. I express my thanks and compliments to the people who worked on the committees that examined the Medibank legislation. The task was not easy. The work took many months. At times it seemed that we were wrestling with a boa constrictor. Although we had it by the throat, every time we took a coil off one limb we found another coil around another limb. It was a difficult job. Eventually we got it laid out. I think that the solution that the Government parties have come up with is probably the best that they could arrive at, considering the problem that Medibank presented. It is like one of those political things; if you cannot dissolve it you dilute it. That is what we have done to the Medibank program. 
I had an opportunity to visit the Medibank centre at Phillip, a suburb of Canberra, about a month ago. It was the first time I saw the enemy face to face. It is a gargantuan monster. It is really a bureaucratic Valhalla and a gigantic instrument of control not only of patients, hospitals and nursing homes but also of doctors and anyone concerned with it. It is an instrument of control. There are 2 huge Honeywell computers humming away there, digesting forests of paper. There are computer pages marching in and out of these machines. They seemed to me to be consuming enough trees to disturb even the most conservative conservationist. An even bigger computer is being installed now. I understand that the 2 Honeywells will be transferred to Perth to do some other job. The computers that Medibank has now were given to it by the Department of Social Security. The cost of those computers, tens of millions, I understand, has not been included in the first year's estimates of the cost of running Medibank. Payout cheques are marshalled like storm-troopers. They march out in serried ranks, shoulder to shoulder. To see that number of cheques going out of any institution I find most disturbing. 
There are memory banks stretching off into the distance. They are capable of instant retrieval of all information, even the most trivial information. It is all information that could be used to irritate each one of us. It is information that cannot be kept confidential, no matter how much legislation is passed through these Houses of Parliament. With the implementation of these Bills there will be leakage of information between Medibank, the medical funds and the Australian Taxation Office- the 3 components, the medical funds, Medibank and the Taxation Office. The Chinese have a proverb that a secret is no longer a secret when more than 2 people know. Even the most paltry documents are photographed and stored. I believe there are 400 microfyche viewers on which to see these documents. All documents are photographed. Even paltry ones are photographed and stored on microfiche. It is not really microfiche, it is more like  Jaws. 
By some stupendous mental gymnastics the bureaucrats have identified the need for 246 different forms. I cannot imagine 246 different forms ever being required by a medical insurance company. I know that bureaucrats cannot operate unless they have a lot of paper to shuffle around, but they have identified the need for 246 different forms. An initial run-out of 90 million was printed. I do not know how many have been printed since the first report on Medibank was published, but it would be considerably more than that. The bureaucrats took some pride in saying that they had met design deadlines, approval deadlines and production deadlines in getting out these forms. Everybody filling in forms and sending them back, where they are shuffled around, means considerable work. At the time the report was put out these forms were arriving back at Medibank at the rate of half a million a day. I can imagine it is considerably more than that now. 
With the introduction of the Bills we have created some paths by which people can get around the Medibank monster in the hope of preserving some of their personal business as private. We must never forget that the monster is still there. He will be smarting a little because he has been deprived of half his food. It is estimated that half the people in Australia will vote with their feet and opt out of Medibank. I think that is shown by the fact that even in the heyday of Medibank during the term of the Labor Party Government so few people actually left the private health insurance funds. I think that indicates that more than half the people in Australia wish to retain private medical insurance. The fact that Medibank was introduced in this way will not create a 2-tier system of health care in Australia, as was claimed in another place yesterday. The new system will give people a wider choice of the type of health insurance that they can obtain. We have created a choice of 4 medical insurance covers. Most of the government subsidy will go to the disadvantaged groups. As one goes up the income scale, the subsidy reduces. 
We await with interest now the reaction of the medical insurance companies. By 'reaction' I mean the package that they will come out with to present to the people so that the people get an honest choice. Under the National Health Amendment Bill, the medical insurance companies will have certain conditions imposed upon them. For example, they must show that they are capable of providing the minimal cover that is expected from Medibank. Also included is a requirement to reinvest money in a fund to be created. It will be a most important fund. Medibank will contribute $50m to it, and the funds will contribute too. That is to cover hospital patients who are chronically ill. This was a weak area in the past. Chronically ill patients are described as those who have been sick in hospital for 60 days or more. This reinvestment fund will be administered by the medical benefits funds as trustees, not by Medibank. The provisions in these clauses of the Bill will ensure that funds do not discriminate against contributors who have pre-existing illness or chronic illness. There is still a 2-month qualifying period for entry into the private health funds, but during this time patients will be covered by Medibank. 
Similarly, at the other end of the scale, if people opt to get out of the private health insurance funds, the private funds will cover them for 2 months and that will be followed up by cover from Medibank. The Bill strengthens supervision of the medical funds. The Government has felt an obligation to do this because it is forcing people either to pay a levy to go into Medibank or pay a premium to enter a private fund. The Government feels it should supervise those funds to see that they are reputable and competent. This sounds queer logic to me when we look at the record of government in this country recently. The Bill also extends benefits to all nursing home patients. This is another important provision because previously pensioners were well cared for but people in private health insurance schemes were disadvantaged. The Bill will remove that disadvantage. 
One amendment to the existing legislation is designed to avoid forcing doctors to bulk bill which, as honourable senators will remember, was one of the most vicious bones of contention with the introduction of Medibank. Another provision is designed to protect the arbitrary right of entry of inspecting officers to examine the books of medical insurance funds and nursing homes. The legislation provides that proper procedures be employed in order to gain a right of entry. On top of all this, one of the Bills provides that people who are privately insured are not entitled to Medibank rebates. A person could not receive benefits from both sides of the fence. The legislation also excludes people who are travelling to Australia- for example, tourists- from receiving benefits. However, the Minister is given a discretion so that even tourists can qualify for benefits in necessitous circumstances. 
In addition, the Bill restricts the circumstances in which Medibank benefits are payable. For example, they will not be payable in respect of life insurance examinations, for immunisation programs in firms and for examinations required in State prisons. Medibank and the funds will pay benefits for workers compensation but the Government will expect reimbursement. The Bill also provides that bulk billing by doctors can continue for doctors who wish to use it. One of the most difficult areas to be settled now will be to renegotiate the Medibank agreements with the States, in particular with my State of Queensland which has had a free health scheme for over 40 years. Of course, this has been effectively destroyed by this legislation. The flak is starting to fly. I hope that the States will be able to come up to a new agreement with the Commonwealth Government that will give them a better choice and a better deal. 
Queensland has had a special deal for many years. I think the fact that it has now lost its free hospitals is another indication of how dangerous it is for anybody, particularly another government, to deal with governments. I well remember the fight that my Premier put up to try to avoid going into Medibank. He told us when we finally were forced into it that we would rue the day. Now the day is here. The basic alterations to the scheme are that everyone can still stay in Medibank but some of us will have to pay for it, either by paying a 2.5 per cent levy on our taxable incomes, by paying a special premium to Medibank or by joining a private fund. A Medibank premium covers public hospital care by public hospital doctors as well as 85 per cent of the standard medical fees. A person who takes out insurance from an approved health insurance company is exempt from the Medibank levy. The minimum cover is the same as that under Medibank with the exception of shared intermediate ward accommodation. A person can insure above this for private ward accommodation and choice of his own doctor, but he cannot insure for above standard fees for either doctor or hospital. The Medibank premium will have the effect of putting a ceiling on the levy for taxpayers with or without dependants. Very shortly, charts are to be produced and will be available to everybody so that people can easily see what options are available to them and so that they can pick out which form of cover suits them and their family best. 
The 2 important features of the new arrangements are that the scheme is universal and that levies and premium are scaled to the income scale. The new proposals are supposed to provide incentives for efficiency, cost consciousness and genuine competition between the public and private sectors. I do not see the need for this competition at all but I hope that the private sector is able to show its superior qualities in the contest. One other requirement is that over the next 3 years the medical profession is to institute a system of professional standards review organisations and no doubt a system of accreditation for hospitals, nursing homes and other institutions. At least these requirements, so far, have been left in the hands of the profession which, I take it, is an indication and a recognition by the Government that this is not a proper role for government. I hope that the Government never assumes that role. However, I note that the Government wants to stay in close contact and consultation with the profession in regard to these review boards. I point out that any review of professional standards based on costs is bound to fail. 
One provision that is causing the medical insurance funds disquiet is that which states that if the Minister receives evidence that one of the funds is on the verge of insolvency, the Minister can appoint an inspector to look into the operations of the fund. The provisions in regard to access, entry and inspection are now subject to proper procedures by way of amendment to the existing legislation. The inspector then reports to the Minister and the Minister can make a decision on the future of the fund. This decision can be contested if required in the new Administrative Appeals Tribunal. It now has judicial status, is independent and is not subject to arbitrary decisions. 
In summary, I state that the advantages of the new and balanced health insurance program are that it will create a substantial decrease in government expenditure and also in the size of the public sector. Medibank has been retainedthat is, universal health care coverage- for both medical and hospital care. There will be a direction of most Commonwealth subsidies to the most disadvantaged. There will be this new specially subsidised re-insurance pool for the chronically ill. There is the provision of incentives which will help to control the continuing long term escalation of health care costs. There is the preservation of the viability of the private hospital sector and the private medical practice in hospitals. The total savings in the Budget will amount to about $800m. I commend the package to the Senate. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce for inquiry and report: The effect on the winemaking and grapegrowing industries of variations in the tax structure. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security whether primary producers who are earning less than the unemployment benefit, no matter what they produce or where they produce it, and who register with a Commonwealth Employment Office are automatically allowed unemployment benefit through regional offices? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. The Minister will be aware that section 31a of the Income Tax Assessment Act which relates to nominal valuation of wine stocks was repealed in 1973 because it was being used as a tax shelter by wine makers. Can the Minister indicate to the Senate what effects the new stock valuations recently announced in the Budget will have on the wine making industry and whether they themselves can be used as a tax shelter? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. It concerns fees for vaccinations given by Commonwealth medical officers to people travelling overseas. In Brisbane alone hundreds of people a month- in some months maybe thousands of people- receive these vaccinations from the Department of Health free of charge. In view of the economic situation, could the Minister inform the Senate whether it is the Government's intention to cease distributing these vaccinations free to the public, or does the Government intend to charge for these services as was the case prior to 1 July 1975 when the previous Government abolished the charges? 
I am still reeling from the staccato machine gun clatter of the last speaker. I rise to speak in support of the Budget and against the amendment. I think the Budget is a courageous, resourceful and responsible budget. I think the amendment is irresponsible. As a matter of fact, when I look at the amendment and the Opposition's claim that we are throwing the States to the winds and failing to use selective stimulatory government expenditure, that we are Using unemployment as a weapon, that we are going to introduce double taxation, I think they are grossly irresponsible. 
Looking at the amendment and the way in which the Opposition has presented it I am reminded of the story of the mice that fell into the sewer. They could not swim but they certainly went through the motions. The Budget is really an extension of the economic package that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Government introduced some months ago. I like the rhetoric of the Budget. It is designed to stop the expanding government spending. It is designed to take spending away from public enterprise and to stimulate private enterprise. These are all principles with which I am in favour. 
No one would deny at any stage of the debate that the economy is not in a fragile state. It is. But when we think of the economy this Government had to pick up it is surprising that the economy has recovered as far as it has done so far. Certainly our inflation rate is still far too high. But it has come down. I believe that it is still coming down according to the figures. Our interest rates are too high. Our costs, particularly costs of construction with the huge wages content that has been generated, are far too high. One could not expect any consumer to have confidence in spending now. One could not expect any investor to have confidence to invest now. One could not expect anyone from overseas to have any confidence in investing in Australia now, particularly with the attacks that the Opposition is making on the value of our currency. This cannot possibly be doing the country any good. I am pleased that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has come out and stated categorically that we are going to fight our way out of this problem without devaluing our dollar. 
The Opposition has made great play in the debate on unemployment. I would like to commence my contribution to the debate by discussing unemployment. I take as an example the plight of the shipbuilding industry in Australia today because that subject cuts across several of the points made in the Opposition's amendment -for example, the reference to selective stimulatory expenditure in various industries, high costs, unemployment and the threat of it, and trade union activity. The shipbuilding industry has got itself into quite a mess, but this is a very good example of government interference in the economy, which is my way of referring to selective stimulatory government expenditure. The history of the shipbuilding bounty goes back to 1 939 just as we went into war. The Government then introduced a shipbuilding bounty. It gave this bounty to about five or six shipbuilding companies in Australia. Its idea was to support the shipbuilding industry so that we did not have to buy our ships from overseas- particularly, at that stage, from Japan. The bounty worked very well during the war and the shipbuilding firms grew bigger and stronger. But the bounty continued after the war and I think that it has been responsible for most of the troubles within the shipbuilding industry. Gradually, the bounty increased until it reached about $500,000 for a decent sized ship. The idea was that the shipbuilding companies in Australia quoted to build a ship against a notional price of building the same ship in England. England was suffering from sufficiently inflated costs because of similar government interference in its shipbuilding industry. I happened to be in England when the Upper Clyde ship works- which was once the pride of the world's shipbuilding industry- came to the end of its tether. Despite a Stg28m subsidy that whole industry collapsed. Now it is no more. This created a tremendous amount of heartbreak and unemployment in England. This was the price that our shipbuilding bounty club in Australia was quoting against. Prices already were inflated by the time the quotes were made here in Australia. 
The bounty had several effects. The trade unions were quick to exploit this bounty because if a shipbuilding firm could quote $500,000 light or $500,000 heavy- dependent on the way one looks at it- then a profit is to be made somewhere. The unions were quick to exploit the situation and they creamed off the bounty very quickly by the use of incessant strikes and demarcation disputes. The shipbuilding bounty club, of course, was not too upset about this because the Government was picking up the tab. It meant that the Government was financing the private enterprise shipbuilders out of the business because after the war, with rapid development in Australia and the exploration for oil, the need arose for many smaller ships to be built plus bigger ships for our bulk materials and oil, oil rig vessels, lighthouse service vessels, patrol boats, tugs and barges. All these vessels started to be built in the smaller shipyards. When orders for shipbuilding were light the biggest shipyards could quote to build smaller ships. Of course, they always won the quote because they had the bounty with which to play. Building small ships in big yards is totally uneconomic. So at this stage, the bounty was causing not only maladministration in the shipyards but also a maladministration of the work in the shipyards. Also, it was financing the smaller private shipyards out of business. In other words, the bounty was having the opposite effect to that for which it was introduced. It is a sorry tale. 
I should like to refer to all of the shipyards in Australia today. I need not discuss the Cockatoo Island dockyard because it attracts a lot of naval work and so one must assume it is removed from economic reality. The recent trouble in the shipbuilding industry blew up when the Australian National Line wanted to order an additional 4 bulk ore carriers- the idea being that we would have Australian built ships manned by Australian crews carrying Australian bulk ore. As the situation stands now the cost of building a ship in Australia today is 50 per cent or 60 per cent higher than anywhere else in the world. This is uneconomic. This is why the Australian National Line has decided to place its orders elsewhere. This has created consternation amongst our bigger dockyards. For example, the New South Wales State Dockyard is currently building a ship but, following the completion of that ship, it has no further orders. The New South Wales State Dockyard, which is a State government instrumentality, is a smallish yard. It has a restriction on its size. It has a very bad production record and a very bad industrial record. The recently deposed Lady Mayoress of Newcastle and the New South Wales State Premier have been acting like commercial travellers for this shipyard. They have approached the Commonwealth Government and have asked that these ships be built in Australia. 
The reason the equipment is obsolete is that there has been no profit to put back into the shipbuilding industry. The unions have creamed off the profits which is a fact honourable senators opposite do not realise. I will go on with my story. The New South Wales State Dockyard does not have a very good case to put for building these 4 bulk ore carriers. But one can applaud the efforts of the Premier and the deposed Lady Mayoress of Newcastle in their attempts to try to get those contracts. Of course, other people are interested in this issue. The large shipyard at Whyalla in South Australia has an impressive record, despite the trying conditions with which the shipbuilding industry has been faced over the years. The shipyard at Whyalla would be interested in building these ships. The Commonwealth Government offered a deal to the New South Wales State dockyards. The proposition the Government put was that the employees agree to a wage freeze, that a definite finishing date for the building of the ships be given, that there be a stay on strikes and, I think, one other condition applied. This offer was refused by the unions. This means that the workers were not prepared to put in anything to save their industry. Despite the high wages and benefits they have had for years, they were quite prepared to let anyone- the Commonwealth Government, the State Government or the shipbuilders themselves- pay so long as they did not have to pay. They were not going to fight to have their industry survive. 
The big shipyard at Whyalla is owned by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. It has been doing well for some years despite these trying conditions. It had a captive market for its own ships- bulk ore carriers, bulk oil carriers and other vessels. It also had some on-shore engineering facility to which it could divert work in times when shipbuilding orders were short. The shipyards at Whyalla estimated that the cost of building the bulk ore carriers in Australia would be 60 per cent higher than the cost of having them built overseas. The Whyalla shipyard was a member of the Commonwealth bounty club as was the State dockyard in Newcastle. 
At Kangaroo Point in Brisbane the huge private shipyard of Evans Deakin and Co. Pty Ltd, which had paid for its own capital work unlike the New South Wales dockyard, again because of its restricted size and inability to handle big ships had asked for the construction of a new floating dock to handle ships up to 144 000 tons. Being a State instrumentality one would expect it would handle its own capital improvements. But no, it went screaming to the Commonwealth Government again asking for about $16m or $ 18m to finance a new floating dockyard so that it could expand its works. Yet, it had no prospects of any extra shipbuilding work or ship repair work and it also appeared to have a sulky work force. The Evans Deakin shipyard is capable of building big ships such as the  R. W. Miller.  The notable feature of the construction of that bulk carrier was that 1000 strikes took place during its construction. It also had a graving dock and the Cairncross repair dock as well as a shipyard for smaller repair work and on-shore engineering work. So it provided comprehensive facilities for shipbuilding and ship repair and flexibility in times of lack of orders. It was another shipyard that attracted the Commonwealth bounty. It had incessant, even daily, strikes. It tended to make smaller ships in its big yards. This was a fault of management but, when you are attracting the bounty, why not? Evans Deakin are going to close their shipbuilding works. They are currently making the Southern Cross oil rig to the tune of $2 5 m or more. When they have completed that they are going to close their shipbuilding operation and concentrate on their engineering works which are far more profitable. That really covers our major shipbuilding works in Australia. 
I think that quite a lot is to be learned from the operations of the small shipbuilders in Australiathe ones who grew up during the expansionary period of Australia s development and who, apart from the bounty, I think would be doing quite well. We only have to look at Carrington 's private shipyard at Newcastle, owned by the Lavarack family, which builds small ships, does not attract the bounty and does not even have on-shore engineering works. Yet it is running at a profit. I think that this is a triumph for management and labour in that this shipyard can get on and do this without on-shore flexibility. In Cairns, the North Queensland Engineering and Agency Co., another private show, run by the Fry family, has a shipyard about half a kilometre from a Chinese,  Mr Hing  who builds one ship a year about 100 feet long. The North Queensland Engineering and Agency Co. has some on-shore side engineering works to give it flexibility in times when shipbuilding orders are short. It is making a profit and doing well. It does not receive the bounty. This also represents a triumph of management and labour getting on together. 
As opposed to that company, the Adelaide Steamship Co. had quite a sizable works at Birkenhead. It was a member of the bounty club and built ships to about 1500 tons deadweight and about 200 feet long. I think it also built a lot of Smit-Lloyd type oil tender vessels. But eventually it had to close its works to the accompaniment of an attractive sit-in by the work force and a rather alarming slamming of the gates and lock-out by the management. Back in Queensland, Walkers Ltd, on the Mary River at Maryborough, built a lot of smallish ships and dredges because of the shallow draught of the Mary River. It built patrol vessels which were too small for the size of the yards and were uneconomic. But this company was a member of the shipbuilding bounty club so it carried out uneconomic small shipbuilding in a yard that was too big for it. It has suffered incessant strikes almost daily- usually short strikes, mainly on demarcation points. It has decided now to close its shipbuilding works altogether and to concentrate on its shore engineering works. It has heavy engineering works in Maryborough. Since doing that the company is showing resounding profits. 
On the next river up the coast, the Burnett River, the Bundaberg Foundary had a shipbuilding section at Bundaberg that built small ships, oil tender vessels, tugs and things like that. It was not a member of the bounty club. Its shipbuilding facility was wrecked by daily strikes, particularly demarcation strikes, which led to its work force containing too many labourers and not enough tradesmen. So it had to close the shipbuilding part of its operations and concentrate on ship repair which is what it is doing now. It has traded itself out of receivership which was caused by the strikes in its shipbuilding works and has made sound profits. It can put these profits back into its shore engineering facility which now services the sugar industry. I point out that the shipbuilding industry in Australia, particularly in Queensland, was well decentralised but because of strikes and demarcation disputes it has turned out to be a massive failure. I think the bounty has been the cause of this. 
-We could build them here perfectly well. There is not much hope for the future but I think that when we look at companies like Carringtons in Newcastle and the North Queensland Engineering and Agency Co. we see a glimmer of light that indicates that shipbuilding companies do need on-shore facilities to give them flexibility. The same could apply to the big tonnages. There is no difference in the building of them both. 
The unions have wrecked their own industry. An investment in shipbuilding nowadays is almost akin to the risk investment that is required for the mining industry. It should never have been like that. I think that the Minister's decision not to send good money after bad has been a good one. The shipbuilding industry now has to get to work and save itself. The sooner we stop all the bounties the better. 
I should like now to pass on to a few observations on trade unions because they are another legacy that we have inherited from the once great Britain. With the industrial revolution over there the advent of unions was inevitable. One can imagine the horrors of the Midlands and the hell of the black pits of Wales. It is natural that employees should have come together to better their lot and to improve their pay and working conditions. Why not? But the unions have grown. Initially they did a lot of good but I think that now they are actually doing their members harm and doing the rest of us harm, too. On top of all this the unions have gone political. They are behaving like another tier of government. They have senseless and irrational demands, work to rules, go slows, strikes and demarcation disputes, all of which put up our costs. 
I say that the unions are senseless. Let us consider the strike against the Post Office- against the greedy employer. Their employer is the Government which is the people which is themselves. They are really attacking themselves. That is why those sorts of strikes are senseless. They are now up to determining foreign policy, encompassing visiting sporting teams, our exports of animals and minerals and visiting ships. Surely foreign policy should be a function of government. I think that we should be aiming for better working relations between management and labour. Relations now, particularly in the shipbuilding industry, could not be worse. But I have seen an industry in a town where there were good working relations. My dad ran the Mount Morgan mine for a whole generation and there was never any question of a slow down, work to rules, demarcation dispute or strike in all that time. 
-I thank the honourable senator. Every Monday morning he met the union representatives and they got to work on each other's problems. Prosperity abounded as production soared. Any injustices or inequities were rectified on the instant. I remember one incident in particular. The truck drivers who carried ore were paid at a different rate from that paid to the drivers who carried overburden. When this anomaly was removed there was an added bonus because the break-down rate of the trucks decreased markedly. 
On top of that they introduced a type of contract work so that anyone who wanted to work harder was paid more than a person who did not. They introduced a Christmas bonus scheme that depended on the productivity of the mine. As things got better they introduced a welfare scheme of their own. I remember that they needed an ambulance for the mine. The union representatives and the mine management agreed that, if each man put sixpence from his pay packet into a fund, the mine would match this amount of money. They did so and, in no time at all, not only did they have an ambulance for the mine but also another one for the town, and they were still swimming in money. They then started to build welfare tennis courts, a swimming pool, a golf course, a football field and many other facilities. 
Even before that, they approached the local shire council and requested that it connect a water supply to the town. Anyone who has ever carried a yoke and 2 kerosene tins of water a few miles will never waste water again. It was marvellous just to have a water supply in the town. They set to work, again with the shire council, and sealed all the streets with bitumen. This beat the dust hazard in the place. It was wonderful to see people take a pride in themselves, their jobs and their town. With the welfare fund continuing they were still swimming in money. I remember that each man used to get half the cost of painting his house every 5 years. They received all sorts of benefits of that type. 
The lesson to learn from this example is that the locus for union activity is at management level, not at board level. At management level both sides can bring together their own expertise to make an industry sing. But the unions are attacking the boards. They want worker participation on boards. But board functions are entirely different from union functions. I think it is a silly move for unions to attack boards and not to work at management level. I have seen this approach work at management level and I know it can work. I hope it does work and that we do not develop a new age of tyranny by trade unions. 
In Great Britain a law has been passed to make trade unions the sole negotiators in all contracts between labour and management. I think this will prove to be a grave error for that country. It will put the English working people into a social straitjacket of inflexibility. It will rob the working man of his right to tender his skills and labour to any employer. That sort of rule will make a lot of people unemployable. For instance, people who are not in a union and even people who are in the wrong union. There is a feeling of fear in England right now and people are racing to join trade unions. A trade union card will become more important than even a birth certificate or a passport. Anyone in England who is not a member of a trade union will be a type of second class citizen. For a person to be acceptable, he will have to be a card- carrying unionist. 

 Mr Deputy President, I see that my time is just about up. I wanted to take a romp through the Medibank maze, but I have no time to do that, so I will draw my remarks to a close. 
I am delighted that the Opposition has picked up my implacable and consistent opposition to Medibank. After the last  Vh  years of debates on the subject I should be surprised if even supporters of the Government had not dropped to my attitude to Medibank. Nevertheless, in just over a week now the Government is going to take us through the jaws of what I call the Medibank monster'. I should have thought that the Opposition, the perpetrators of nationalised health, would have been more pleased with the action the Government has taken than its members have shown in the debate. They speak as if we were dismantling Medibank. 
Really, instead of having just one giant Medibank we now have about 80 little ones. But  they are all strictly controlled. The private medical insurance companies have their rates, rebates and methods of operation fixed in just the same way as Medibank has them fixed. Indeed, they are all required to supply an immense amount of statistical data to a huge central computer- data which is largely irrelevant to peoples' health care, but certainly data which can lead to a lot more government control of patients and government control of the medical profession. I should have thought that the Opposition would think that Medibank, that is Medibank (Private), was on a self destruct course at the moment, particularly if it were forced into open and free competition with the private health funds. No bureaucratic fund could be expected to provide services at the cheaper cost of the private health funds. I share  Senator Jessop  's view that we must be very careful to ensure that the costs incurred by Medibank Private are dissected from the whole Medibank machine so that we can ensure that it has no undue advantage. 
I was pleased that the Opposition pointed out the inconsistency in our program, in that last year we fought like tigers to defeat legislation that would have instituted an Australian Government insurance office, yet we have now turned around and instituted an Australian Government medical insurance office. It is an inconsistency. However, as I said when I spoke on this previously, the Government was presented with a boaconstrictor to wrestle with and it has come up with the best answer it can- one that can possibly work for us without our having to be nationalised. But I think we are well down the road to nationalisation even now because of the legislation that Labor forced through a joint sitting of the House of Parliament. I remind honourable senators of a quotation I have previously made in the Senate, that is that socialised health is the keystone in the arch of a socialised state. Vladimir I 'lich Lenin said that in 1917. We are now well down the road to serfdom and I hope that we can salvage our way out of it somehow. 
The enforcement agency that the Government is going to use to implement the new Medibank scheme is going to be called the PSRO, or the Professional Services Review Organisation, or the peer review system. The Government has laid down an ultimatum to the medical profession that if the profession does not institute these PSROs the Government will introduce them. It is a mammoth task for either body. Their introduction assumes that we have knaves, rogues and incompetents in the medical profession. I note that the Australian Medical Association is going to take a pioneering role in instituting these PSROs. The AMA claims to be truly representative of the medical profession so I presume it contains its proportion of knaves, rogues and incompetents. 
It was stated just a little while ago that the big faults in the profession were the over-attendance by doctors on patients, and patients being operated on unnecessarily and over prescribing. I do not think many doctors could be doing this. It is not a big problem, even overseas. But the AMA is sending observers overseas now to study what has happened as a result of the institution of PSROs over there. I hope they come back as convinced as I am that they not only have not elevated medical standards but they have reduced them. Currently the PSRO issue is quite a hot little number in the United States presidential election. It might appear strange that a little issue like that is important but it is growing in its importance in that campaign right at the moment. 
I do not see PSROs for doctors as the end of it all. I think that eventually there will be peer review groups for anybody who charges for delivering or performing any health service, particularly if government has anything to do with subsidising that service. As I said, the PSROs are being brought in on the specious grounds that they will elevate our health care. Actually, when one looks at these Bills one sees that they merely institute a health insurance system and have nothing to do with health care. Neither did Medibank at the start. It was a medical insurance scheme. But the very idea presumes that our standards are low to start with and the PSRO proposal presumes that the scheme will elevate our standards and is going to maintain them. I submit that our health standards in Australia are among the highest in the world today. 
Facts, reason and logic never seem to deter any government when it is moving to control something. Medibank was brought in on the specious grounds that 1 000 000 people were inadequately covered by medical insurance; that we had too many medical benefits funds and this was uneconomic; and that there were inequalities and injustices. When we looked at the matter we found that the 1 000 000 people was a mythical million as they did not exist. When we looked at the operation of the medical benefits funds we found that the very competition between them led to the cheapest medical insurance scheme in the world. But the truth did not deter the Labor Government. It hammered away and brought in Medibank in spite of the truth. It brought in Medibank not to give us better health but to give the Government control of the people. 
To return to the PSROs and their trials overseas, I do not see why Australia should have to go through the miseries of other countries such as Canada, the United States of America and even Great Britain. One only has to read the medical journals over the last few years to see the lowering of standards that PSROs have caused. There are 4 reasons for their introduction. 

 - Mr President, I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
-Before the sitting of the Senate was suspended for dinner I was saying in regard to the 3 health insurance Bills before us that the present Government inherited the Medibank scheme from the previous Labor Government. This Government spent a lot of time, work and thought on revamping the whole scheme so that the people of Australia can have a wider choice of a better set of health insurance companies than they had before. The idea was to give back to the people control of their health care. The Government has done a grand job and come up with what is probably the best scheme it could have devised in the circumstances. There has been a lot of publicity to the effect that confusion has been reigning throughout the country. There is no need for any of that confusion because all we have really is Medibank and the private insurance funds, and also the Government private insurance fund which has been added. This gives people a much wider choice. 
Every one of these insurance companies is under strict Government control. I had been making the point that we must be careful not to go down the road followed by other countries which have strict Government control of all their national health schemes. I had pointed out the danger to Medibank Private if it is run as a bureaucracy. If it is run as a bureaucracy it cannot survive against competition from the private funds. I pointed out the importance of excising its operations from the bureaucracy so that it can operate on its own. 
The big thing for the whole country is to go for better health care. Finance is one thing but health is another. In this regard I had referred to experience overseas with professional service regulation organisations referred to in abbreviation as PSROs. Such bodies have been tried in several countries and they have not been a success. They were introduced in those countries on the basis that they were going to elevate health standards but experience over the last 10 years has shown that far from elevating them they have depressed them. I had pointed out that Medibank had been introduced by the Labor Government in spite of the evidence indicating that it was unnecessary, but that when that Government moved to control something it took no note of facts, of truth, of reason or of logic. It introduced Medibank not to give us better health care but to give it greater control over people. 
Referring again to the professional service regulation organisations, or peer reviews, they sound very nice when looked at theoretically. People rendering services have those services reviewed by their peers in order to make sure that they maintain adequate standards. But even now the Government, having insisted on these PSROs, which are a type of enforcement agency in my view, has told the medical profession that if it does not introduce them the Government will do it for them. The Australian Medical Association has accepted that there is a problem in this area. It realises the magnitude of it and is sending officers overseas to study experience there. 
I have been overseas and have looked at the effect of introducing these peer review organisations. They are introduced on four main grounds. The first is to establish cost effectiveness. I would point out that in supervising any medical service cost effectiveness is not the way to assure the effectiveness of the service you get. The second reason for which they were introduced was to accredit not only doctors and their surgeries but also hospitals, laboratories and equipment- indeed, all buildings and equipment or anything else used to deliver health services to people. Thirdly, they were introduced to prevent abuses of the system by both the doctors and the patients. Fourthly, they were introduced to find areas of under-use of the system. 
Honourable senators can see that before any of these PSROs can operate they have to gather a mass of information that is totally irrelevant to the standard of health care achieved. They have to establish information on national standards for almost every medical function, particularly the common ones. They have to establish standards for each hospital because all hospitals are different and function in different ways. They have to establish standards for medical record keeping and standards for medical libraries. On top of that they have to establish a lot of standards to compare performance with the standards set. Getting personnel to do all that work may solve our unemployment problem but the expense of it will be monumental and the benefits less than nil. We will not get better health care as a result of these PSROs. On the contrary, I think we will get worse health care. What will happen is that the Government will get more control. The effect of their introduction will be to put the profession in a strait-jacket. PSROs stifle initiative, imagination and ingenuity. They stifle that spark of experimentation that leads to development because doctors become frightened to try anything thai is not part of an acceptable government standard. As has happened in other countries, doctors may retreat even further from the patients than they are now and start practicising defensive medicine. Under this system doctors start to treat patients not as they think best but so as not to offend against any acceptable government standard and so that they can justify their performance to the peer review committee. This is important because a recommendation of a peer review committee could hold the key to a doctor's licence to practise. 
One of the things I noticed was that goodwill disappears from the practice of medicine in countries that have these schemes because doctors practise not to satisfy patients but merely to satisfy the peer review committees. For example, if a computer reveals that one doctor's prescribing habits are different from those of other doctors in his area, if it reveals that he has his own particular or peculiar prescribing habits, the bureaucracy then notifies the local PSRO which then hauls the doctor before a committee of inquiry and asks him why his figures are different from those of the area average. Doctors will not submit to this kind of thing. Instead of practising as they think fit they will practise so as not to disturb the government computers. 
While on that point I would like to refer to what the Department of Health has required from the medical insurance companies. I refer to an article that appeared in the Australian Medical Association  Gazette  on 1 9 August 1 976. The Australian Department of Health sent a circular to medical insurance companies informing them of the data that would have to be supplied, and supplied on a service-by-service basis. The first thing which the Department wants is the medical benefits schedule item number. Each number is associated with a certain condition. That number is wanted so that the central computer which, I take it, is not connected with Medibank but is a general collecting computer, will know the medical condition of each patient who has seen a doctor. The computer will know whether a person is a diabetic, an epileptic on treatment, someone with a duodenal ulcer or whether he has ever seen a psychiatrist. The second thing which the Department wants to know is the fee charged. It also wants to know the schedule benefits paid. It wants to know the date of service and the date that benefits are paid. The next 2 things which are wanted are unique provider identificationthat is, the name of the doctor who is treating the patient- and unique patient identification. The article in the  AMA Gazette  states: 
Among other requirements, the Department says there must be separate particulars and identification of the individual services in bulk fee groups so that the bulk fee charged can be allocated to individual services. 
The article also states that the information would enable certain things to happen. It lists a lot of things. The third thing which it will enable is: 
Preparation of data for committees of inquiry, peer review activities and analyses of servicing patterns. These activities will be aimed at detecting actual and possible cases of overservicing. Actual and possible cases of over-servicing must be identifiable, and hence it is necessary to uniquely identify providers and patients, and to know the date on which a service was rendered. 
The circular acknowledges that the data requirements present funds with a major task. 
They also present funds with a major expense. The article points out the dangers and difficulties that lie ahead. These are things which I have seen and of which the Government must beware. These are things which we want to avoid. So far the Government has diluted the original Medibank scheme to such a stage that at least it is manageable by the country. I think we can profit from the experience  of people  overseas, because they have been through some miserable times as a result of government interference in health care. Let us hope that now, with this scheme, Australians can go on to better and better health care. I wish the Government well in the implementation of its Bills. I wish the country well. I know it is a lot better off now than it was under the original Medibank scheme. I wish honourable senators good health. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service matters. I am continually receiving complaints from Australian Government employees that since the introduction of flexi-hours in the Commonwealth Public Service a considerable amount of time is being wasted. Some officers, I am informed, commence duty at 8 a.m. or 8.15 a.m., but due to the fact that business in the department does not commence until a later hour they waste a lot of time. Can the Minister have this matter investigated to see whether flexi-hours need to be made more workable or whether they should be scrapped altogether? 
I ask the Minister for Science: Has the Government made any progress towards obtaining a research vessel for the Australian Institute of Marine Science to be used at Turtle Bay in Queensland? 
I rise to counter certain aspersions and allegations that were cast on the Queensland Premier during the debate on the adjournment in this chamber last night. The tenor of  Senator Colston's  speechapart from the innuendo and invective- was that the media should start a searching scrutiny of the Queensland Premier's share deals and hound him with it and that the Queensland Premier should resign because of his lack of decency and lack of integrity. He stated that the Queensland Premier should resign because of the stunning conflict of interest that existed between his position as Premier of the State and his share holdings in certain companies that had a far-removed locus of activity from government contracts.  Senator Colston  also, called for this Parliament to legislate, following the tabling of the report by the Joint Committee on the Pecuniary interests of members of the Parliament last year. The honourable senator then went on to draw a rather tenuous web of connection between the Queensland Premier and a company called Nema Holdings Limited. He said that that company had hit the jackpot since the Queensland Government's recent change in policy in that it was now giving out certain government works contracts to private enterprise. 
The leaflet that the honourable senator mentioned iti his speech and obviously the one from which he drew his inspirations for his speech was circulated amongst the workers of the building industry in Queensland under the heading: 'The Premier and the Public Works'. It was signed by one, Fred Nerk. Even the Opposition's ubiquitous blind Freddie would recognise the anonymity of this scurrilous rag. Fred Nerk of course, was a character in the  Goon Show.  Perhaps the honourable senator should audition for a similar show. The leaflet, by the way, was pinned to the Press notice board in the Queensland Parliament for a fortnight and even the Brisbane Press reporters recognised it as just being gutter gossip and did not take it seriously. Even the Leader of the Opposition in Queensland did not take it seriously. Obviously no Labor  Senator from  Queensland has taken it seriously apart from the tyro senator opposite who had the temerity to pick up this gutter publication and use it to flog a dead horse. Naturally, it had been mentioned in papers of such repute as the  National Review  and  Semper Floreat  but it is still of fictitious authorisation. The honourable senator was just trying to use the same old smear tactics on the Queensland Premier's share dealings that had been discredited years ago. The Queensland Premier's share dealings have been public knowledge for years and are open for all to see. Any conflict of interest is denied. The Premier makes no apology for his share dealings. If more people had shown the courage and foresight that he has shown they would be financially better off than they are today. 
Perhaps the honourable senator would prefer the Queensland Premier to do his dealings at breakfast with the Iraqis like the leader of his Party does. But to show how misleading the speech of the honourable senatorthe honourable retailer of gutter gossipwas last night, I should like to cite this letter. 
-I have nothing as dramatic as the expose on the Sydney Aboriginal legal aid to talk about service tonight, but some interesting sideplay went on during the debate. When the honourable senator who raised this matter was talking about it and explaining about the overutilisation of the service and the control of the service by the people providing the service there was an interjection in these words: 'Well, they should not have provided the service'. That shows a basic difference between the 2 sides of the chamber. I am sure that those on the other side of the chamber would expect the lawyers who are providing the service to act as a police force and to control and regulate the service which is provided, in much the same way as they expected, in the case of the pensioner medical service and similar services provided by Government, the providers of the service to act as a police force. That is just an observation on the way government works. 
I have 3 areas at which I would like to look. They come under the estimates for the Department of Health on pages 79 to 83 of the Bill. Division 325, subdivision 1, concerns the Woomera hospital which I think the Government could examine with some profit, if that is the right word to use. This hospital was taken over by the Department of Health from the Department of Defence. No doubt the hospital had considerable expenses before the transfer and no doubt it will have considerable expenses in the future. As I understand it, we have come down from the Buck Rogers days when the Blue Streak and the Jindivik scorched our skies. The Woomera rocket range has been virtually disbanded, as far as I know. There is still a hospital service there. This hospital services the people who are operating the defence and space communications station, the people on the pastoral properties in the area, the people in the village, the families of the staff operating the defence facility, Commonwealth railways personnel and anyone travelling through the district. 
The hospital was taken over at an expense of more than $602,000. It must be a most peculiar hospital. The wages component of that amount is $474,000. The largest estimated expenditure in the total expense is $46,000, which is for stores and laboratory supplies. They are the only items that I could relate to the treatment of any patients. The rest of the items are for travel and subsistence, office requisites, advertising and incidentals and other expenditure, which item amounts to $40,500. The report of Estimates Committee D states: 
As stated these amounts have been frozen in the departmental appropriations. 
I do not quite know what that means, because there must be future expenses. I point to that hospital as an area for profitable examination by the Government with a view to making economies. 
The second item I would like to mention is the provision of vaccine by Commonwealth medical officers to private individuals going overseas. Last year the Government spent $201,978 on this and it is estimated that in 1976-77 the cost of the vaccine alone will be $242,800. That is merely for the provision of the vaccine. I presume that the vaccine would cost something like 25c an ampule; so the appropriation means that over one million doses of vaccine will be given at departmental expense to people going overseas. That does not take into account the cost of syringes and the things used to give the doses. Syringes cost about 15c each. The swabs, spirit and other things which are used would cost about 5c for each injection. There would be the cost for doctors giving the needle and the costs for the provision of nurses in the surgery; secretarial staff would be required; certificates have to be provided; and passport books which people get have to be provided. This would amount to some considerable cost. I would say that in total the cost would run into something like $lm. What I have against this is that this is all provided free by the Commonwealth. I consider that to be an anti-private enterprise operation. These people should get their vaccine from their own doctors before they go overseas. The Commonwealth Government uses the argument, now that Medibank is in, that it would merely be transferring the money from one pocket to the other; but I do not see that the general population- the taxpayersshould have to meet the expense of providing vaccine for people going overseas. 
The other item with which I wish to deal comes under Health Services, Planning and Research Program. This section of the Department has running expenses of $260,500 to operate a planning and research program of Sim. Of that $lm, an amount of $500,000 goes to the States and the other $500,000 covers Commonwealth programs. I would just like people to know the sorts of programs we are funding, mainly because I do not see many of them as a Commonwealth responsibility at all. There may be some value in the research- there probably is- but not quite as much as the amount we are spending on it here. For example, the Government has spent $68,000 to develop standards of accreditation of hospitals, which I consider would be an inordinate amount for such a program. The Government has spent $28,000 gathering information on the cost of construction of hospitals. It has spent $2,000 on studying efficiency and productivity in hospitals. It has spent $72,000 to develop medical administrative standards in Australian general hospitals, by conducting a survey of the formal organisation of medical staff in Australian hospitals and analysing the effectiveness of the organisational patterns in representative hospitals. 
The Government has spent thousands of dollars on rapid construction methods in respect of health centres. I personally do not consider the building of Commonwealth health centres to be a Commonwealth Government responsibility. It is bad in principle and we do not get value for the money. The Government has spent $26,000 to test the hypothesis that the health of the elderly chronic ill would improve by utilisation of a practitioner nurse attached to a general practice. Why anyone would think that was a hypothesis, I do not know. I would think it was an already proven fact. The cost of that program was over $26,000. 
There are many other items I can see by turning over the pages. One which intrigued me was a grant to the Benevolent Society of New South Wales to conduct a benefit-cost analysis of services provided at an obstetrics hospital. In the end I think the Society wound up giving something like $26,000 back to the Government. I think that is the one item I enjoyed in this list. An amount of $12,500 was provided by the Government for a detailed study of the continuing educational needs of medical , specialists. This may be worth while. It is probably even one of the goals of the Royal Australasian College of Physicians. But I do not see it as a Commonwealth responsibility. There are many items of expenditure concerned with planners and researchers. 
It is a sub-item: 'Hospitals and Health Services ... . -Planning and Research'. We spent more than $22,000 to study the information needs and practices of health facility planners, whatever they are. We have spent nearly $56,000 to improve the ability of health planners and policy makers to provide suitable and adequate health services for urban children. I wonder who decides what is suitable, what is adequate, and how it comes to be necessary anyway. Another item was research of the teacher training corps whereby health service researchers can improve their expertise by the discussion of common problems. I could go through these pages for. ages. There are 19 more pages of these kinds of items that I suggest to the 
Government could be reviewed with some profit to us taxpayers. 
I present the following petition from 39 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That whereas this nation through its duly elected Houses of Parliament is deemed to abide by the true aims and principles of the United Nations Chaner and of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 
And whereas such Chaner and Universal Declaration purport to uphold the fundamental and permanent right of every country and of every race to genuine free elections and to proper self-determination. 
And whereas the peoples and the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, amongst others, described as the Captive Nations because they are under the forcible occupation of troops of a foreign power or are compelled to accept a puppet dictatorship under pain of military invasion by the troops of a foreign power should that dictatorship ever be seriously challenged, are indisputably denied these basic human rights. 
So therefore it is a matter of national honour and integrity, of moral and Christian duty, and of international justice and humanity, to publicly and constitutionally acknowledge these basic human rights of the peoples of the Captive Nations, and this is in course of being demonstrated by free peoples and their governments throughout the world being now called upon to treat the whole of 1977 as being 'International Captive Nations Year'. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, will accordingly take all appropriate steps to publicly declare immediately possible that the calendar year of 1977 shall be treated as 'International Captive Nations Year', in keeping with the world-wide movement amongst free nations everywhere. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Rent Increases in the Australian Capital Territory 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory: Is it a fact that a South Vietnamese vessel arrived in Darwin harbour today without arrangement or permission and carrying some 50 persons rumoured to be refugees? Has the Minister any information on this matter? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. In view of the recent announcement by the Queensland Anti-Cancer Council about the various sun protection preparations available, apparently using as a basis information supplied by the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories, has the Minister any further information which he could supply in amplification of that announcement? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister and the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. In view of the continuing and increasing build-up of Soviet arms and personnel in southern Africa and the strategic importance of southern Africa to Australia, together with the fact that Prime Minister Ian Smith has agreed to negotiate a change in electoral policy for Rhodesia, is not the time now propitious for Australia to recommend to the United Nations that we lift our trade sanctions on Rhodesia and our arms embargo on South Africa? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerns the Torres Strait border issue. The question is divided into 2 parts: First, can the Minister guarantee that all the fishing grounds currently used by the Torres Strait Islanders will be included in the protective zone referred to in the agreement of 5 June 1976? Second, has the Government drawn up contingency plans to protect the Torres Strait Islanders' interests in the event of a unilateral declaration of sovereignty and sovereign rights by Papua New Guinea in certain areas of the Torres Strait, as Papua New Guinea has suggested during negotiations it might do? 
I have a question for the Minister representing the Treasurer. It concerns the deductibility of superannuation contributions for taxation purposes. Following the 2 recent royal commissions on taxation, Ligertwood and Asprey, both finding that self-employed people were unjustly treated in the deductibility of superannuation contributions from assessable income, it appears that this injustice is continuing in that taxation paid by self-employed people appears to help fund the employer contribution to Commonwealth Government employees' superannuation and yet self-employed people receive no similar matching benefit. As this injustice has been recognised and rectified in other countries such as New Zealand and Canada, is it not possible for our Government to take similar action? 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice: 
How many ex-servicemen are employed in the Queensland office of the Department of Veterans' Affairs. 
How many ex-servicemen have been assessed at the totally and permanently incapacitated pension rate prior to the normal retirement age. 
How many widows of deceased repatriation pensioners, employed by the Department at the time of their death, have been granted war widows' pensions. 
I ask the Minister for Education: Is it a fact that university students who are not in a financial position to pay their subscriptions to the Australian Union of Students are receiving additional money by way of an allowance from the Commonwealth Government to assist with the payment of their union fees? If so, will the Minister please explain the rationale of this expenditure? 
I present the following petition from 83 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
Whereas many countries of northern and central Africa have been deeply embroiled in revolutions, racial violence, massacres, forced starvation, abductions, terrorism, and discrimination of all kinds without the United Nations instigating sanctions or other penalty, and 
Whereas the Charter of the United Nations clearly precludes it from interference in the domestic affairs of a country or from obstructing the free transmission of news and information between individuals and between nations, and 
Whereas the United Nations, in apparent illegality has imposed many restrictions and sanctions upon Rhodesia which has been remarkably free from the bloodshed and turmoil of the other aforementioned lands, even to the extent now of actively encouraging armed conflict against the elected Rhodesian government, and 
Whereas Lord Graham as Minister for External Affairs and Defence has said: 'International Communism is our enemy, all this talk of political advancement and majority rule is no more than a smoke screen in the early skirmishes of an assault upon the whole of Africa ... it is even more difficult to see this enemy because it is not merely attacking us, but on a broad front is attacking the whole world order, its standards, its law and order, its moralities, its churches, its patriotisms, its philosophies, and even much of its learning . . .'and 
Whereas ample evidence is offered of Communist Chinese infiltration in much of Africa over many years, whilst today trained Cuban Communist troops reported to number 25 000 are evidently dominating nearby Angola and possess modem missiles etc. 
So therefore it is urgent that the Australian people determine for themselves the actual facts of the Rhodesian Struggle. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, will accordingly observe common justice and proper humanity by inviting duly authorised representatives of the present Rhodesian government to Australia to do what they have not been allowed to do before, present their case fully and publicly so that this can be examined and tested without interference, and so that the eventual impact on Australia's own security and defence alliances can be gauged with better accuracy. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-This referendum proposal for simultaneous elections is being put through the Houses of Parliament by the Executive Government today, all of a sudden. This proposal we are considering now is similar to one which was put forward by Labor to the people in 1974, as honourable senators would know. It would appear that there is a contradiction in the Government argument because we opposed it vehemently last time. This time the Government is supporting it. The reason given for this is that conditions are different now from what they were in 1974. In 1974 when this proposal was put to the people it was put in conjunction with other referenda proposals precipitately. The Constitutional Convention had only just been convened. A power hungry executive government put the referenda proposals to the people in the hope that it could gain more power. The people rejected all the proposals. The whole thrust of the referenda put to the people by Labor was entirely different from the thrust of these proposals. The proposals of Labor were cloaked in such dissembling words as 'democratic elections'. Had they been accepted they would have decayed democracy, not strengthened it. They were an artifice of a power hungry executive. 
Subsequently the Constitutional Convention had many meetings. State governments, local governments and the Federal Government were well represented. State and federal politicians and other well qualified and experienced people took part. After a series of meetings the Convention came up with general accord on approximately 22 proposals. There was substantial agreement on four of them. It is these 4 proposals for constitutional reform which the Government is now putting to the people. We all are well aware that for some years there has been talk of constitutional reform. Various intellectuals, academics and political commentators, and, in particular the Australian Labor Party, have been trying to achieve constitutional reform. The ALP of course wants to ditch the Queen, wreck the Federal Parliament by abolishing the Senate, abolish State parliaments, abolish local government, have a huge central government in Canberra under a president and tie regional development in Australia to Canberra. I do not call that constitutional reform; I call that revolution. 
I am happy to withdraw that remark and replace it with 'discard '. 
I am prepared to accept what  Senator Colston  has said and bring the statement into line with the rest of the points I was expounding. I said that the ALP wishes to abolish the Senate. I will say that it wishes to abolish the monarchy, if that is acceptable to the honourable senator. 
No  Senator shall  use the name of  Her  Majesty or of  Her  representative in this Commonwealth disrespectfully in Debate . . . 
I believe that  Senator Sheil  's statement that the Labor Party wishes to ditch the Queen is offensive to the Queen and to the Labor Party.  Senator Sheil  was asked, courteously, to withdraw that offensive reference. He said 'I will withdraw it and I will substitute "discard the Queen".' That expression is more offensive still. He was asked then to withdraw that expression also. He said: 'Well, abolish the Queen'.  His  intent was to impute that the Labor Party wished to take action against the Queen, who is to visit this country shortly. That is quite untrue. 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against either House of the Parliament or any Member of such House, or of any House of a State Parliament, or against any Statute, unless for the purpose of moving for its repeal, and all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
So, when  Senator Sheil  made his imputations against the Labor Party as such and against Members of the Labor Party,  Senator Colston  drew your attention to what were objectionable words to him.  Senator Sheil  made some form of retraction, but he has not retracted in the terms of standing order 4 1 8. 1 suggest to you,  Mr President,  for your consideration, that you should take note of the point of view put by  Senator Colston  who finds the references and imputations by  Senator Sheil  offensive to him. He is entitled to have the situation corrected by a decision from you. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  I did not wish to precipitate a volatile situation like that. May I explain that the context in which I was using the word 'Queen' was in relation to Chapter 1-The Parliament, Part I-General, of the Australian Constitution. 
-According to that part of the Constitution, the Parliament is made up of the Queen, the Senate and the House of Representatives. I used the word in that context. 
Well,  Mr President,  you can see how - 
-Thank you,  Mr President;  I do agree. If I may continue by dealing with the issues that are to be put to the Australian people in the referenda, I remind the Senate that these include the matter of simultaneous elections - 
By the executive government. Those issues have created a great deal of dissent, not only in the Senate. I am sure that they will create dissent amongst the people. They are issues which affect the fundamental integrity of the Senate, its powers and its ability. Other issues associated with the referenda interfere with States 's rights, the rights of people in States and the rights of justices of the High Court. The selection of people to fill casual vacancies in the Senate by the States is interfered with also. In that connection, I presume that that referendum proposal was precipitated by the appointments of  Senator Bunton  and  Senator Field  to this Senate. I would not presume to comment on the appointment of  Senator Bunton.  In the case of  Senator Field,  I would say that the issue then concerned not his appointment but whether the Queensland Parliament should have had the opportunity to make a choice from 3 candidates when selecting a replacement senator. The Australian Labor Party would not give the 
Queensland Parliament a choice. That Parliament exercised its rights and chose a Labor man, who had been active in and respected by the Party for many years, to come to this chamber. 
The fact that the Labor Party expelled him after his appointment to the Senate is its own affair. I turn to the other issues which are dividing us. One is the right of people in the mainland territories to vote in referenda. I can see how this would cause great disquiet to the States. 
I am speaking about the Bills associated with this Bill in the same way as the Labor Party had Bills associated with its referenda. I can see how the people of the mainland Territories being largely public servants may have interests when voting in such referenda different from the interests of the people in the States. 
I instance the proposed retiring age for High Court justices. Many people would think that judges were just slipping into high gear when they reached the age of 70 and that - 
I am connecting my remarks. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  The contentious issues now being considered include a change in the rights of the States, of the rights of people in the States, of the rights of the Senate, of the rights of the High Court, of the rights of the House of Representatives and of the rights of the Prime Minister in calling elections. These are fundamental changes which, if made, would sabotage the foundations of our Constitution, which nas withstood the ravages of time, including what I would call the holocaust of the 3 years of Labor, ending in that cataclysm which occurred on Remembrance Day in 1975. Despite all of these factors, the Government feels that the conditions now are altered from what they were in 1974 when it opposed the Labor referenda, including the proposition with respect to simultaneous elections. This view is taken in the light of the decisions of the last Australian Constitutional Convention. 
So, after an examination of the entire electoral spectrum, the Government has decided to put these matters to the people. It would be difficult to oppose such a proposition. What could be more democratic than that action? Putting questions to the people for determination is of the very essence of democracy in a world where currently in the United Nations there are only 24 democracies amongst 146 represented nations, the remainder of which are either despotisms or totalitarian states. Democracy is very precious to us. I have great confidence that the Australian people will do no damage to our democracy by their votes in the forthcoming referenda. I am happy to vote to have the issues put to the people. I will be most interested in the result. I think that I can guess the outcome of the referendum questions. I will be most interested also in the outcome of the poll to select our national song. 
I present the following petition from 83 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government long-term policy should be to provide 50 per cent of all funding for Australia s roads. 
That at a minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $S,903m of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1980/8 1, of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 29 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government's long-term policy should be to provide SO per cent of all funding for Australia 's roads. 
That at a minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $5,903m of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1980-81, of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
Petition received. 
-I present 2 petitions, similar in wording, from 38 and 22 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in the Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Commonwealth Government restore the Petrol Price Equalisation Scheme immediately for the benefit of those people who live away from the seaboard. 
Your petitioners believe that the matter is urgent and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and first petition read. 
I present the following petition from 2 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Charter of the United Nations clearly precludes it from interference in the domestic affairs of a country or from obstructing the free transmission of news and information between individuals and between nations. 
That the United Nations, in apparent illegality, has imposed many restrictions and sanctions upon Rhodesia which has been remarkably free from the bloodshed and turmoil of northern and central African lands, even to the extent now of actively encouraging armed conflict against the legally elected Government of Rhodesia. 
Lord Graham as Minister of External Affairs and Defence had said: 'International communism is our enemy, all this talk of political advancement and majority rule is no more than a smokescreen in the early skirmishes of an assault upon the whole of Africa . . . It is even difficult to see this enemy because it is not merely attacking us, but on a broad front is attacking the whole world order, its standards, its law and order, its moralities, its churches, its patriotisms, its philosophies and even much of its learning . . . ' 
That Communist Chinese infiltration in much of Africa over many years, and Cuban Communist troops reported to number 25 000 are dominating nearby Angola, and possess modern missiles etc. 
It is urgent that Mozambique, now under Communist domination and which has a common border with Rhodesia, does not receive any further aid from the Commonwealth Government of Australia, which has benefited mainly, the terrorist guerilla movements that are responsible for the deaths of many Rhodesian people. 
It is urgent for the Australian people to determine for themselves, the actual facts of the Rhodesian struggles. 
It is urgent that the Senate and the House Representatives in the Parliament assembled, will observe common justice and proper humanity by inviting only authorised representatives of the present Government of Rhodesia to Australia, to do what they have been deprived to do previously, present their case fully and publicly so that this can be examined and tested, without interference, and so that the eventual impact on Australia's own security and defence alliances can be gauged with better accuracy. 
Your petitioners request urgent action to be taken immediately. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to an advertisement in the  Australian  on Saturday, 2 1 May, which reads: 
Department of Health Services, Tasmania,  Locums  . . . A locum is desired to relieve in the district Medical Officer's Post at Derby from Thursday, 26 May, to Monday, 13 June 1977. A salary rate of $502 a week will apply and a considerable amount of extra remuneration can be obtained by charging certain types of patients 'in hours' and all patients 'out of hours' at a prescribed rate. 
I ask the Minister: Does this mean that the Department regards the doctor's salary as low at $502 a week and is condoning the practice of a doctor's seeing a patient 'in hours' and referring that patient to himself as 'out of hours' so that he can be paid at the prescribed rate for doing procedural work such as minor operations? 
I present the first report from the Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce on its inquiry into the effects of currency alterations and changes to manufacturing industry protection on employment and inflation, including the effects on prices of manufactured goods. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, by saying that it is becoming a matter of increasing complaint since the introduction of flexitime that people dealing with departmental officers are having difficulty conducting their business because of the staggered hours worked. This is causing irritating delays. Will the Minister be good enough to look into the  situation and  see whether these kinds of delays can be eliminated? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. In view of all the allegations made in this place by Australian Labor Party senators concerning the behaviour of Queensland policemen in the Cedar Bay incident, will the Minister now announce the outcome of the trials of Officers Brand, Pocock, Crow and Gray, to complete the Senate record in this affair? 
I present the report and the transcript of evidence from the Senate Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce on its inquiry into the tax on the wine and the grape industries. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
I present the second report of the Senate Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce on its inquiry into the effects of currency alterations and changes to manufacturing industry protection upon employment and inflation. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-The United Nations Security Council has two main functions under Chapter 6 and Chapter 7 of the charter. Chapter 6 deals with the peaceful settlement of disputes between parties and Chapter 7 deals with action relating to threats to the peace. Under the Chapter 7 provisions, the Security Council has extensive powers, up to and including the prosecution of a war. The United Nations charter clearly states that decisions should be taken with the affirmative votes of the five permanent members of the Council- the United States, Great Britain, France, Russia and China. However, the Security Council is autonomous in making its own rules of procedure and has developed the doctrine that it does not regard abstinence from voting as a veto. One can understand the Security Council finding this procedure convenient for its ordinary day to day affairs, but when it comes to Chapter 7 decisions involving the peace and threats to the peace, war, blockade, sanctions and international security then one would expect decisions to be taken with the concurring votes of the five permanent members. Surely such momentous decisions would demand it, particularly since 1 966 when the size of the Security Council was increased from 1 1 to 1 5 members. It is now possible for the Security Council to take momentous decisions and implement them without the concurring votes of any of the five permanent members, and I believe that to be outside the intent, spirit and letter of the United Nations charter. 
It appears to me that the role of the Security Council is being distorted and subverted by increasing recourse to it over matters which are not real threats to the peace. Let us consider its performance as a mediator. Since World War II, on any one day there has been an average of 12 major wars. Troops from 80 nations have fought in 70 different countries. The number of dead and casualties has reached tens of millions, and most of the wars have taken place in Third World countries armed from the industrialised nations. There is no end in sight to this appalling record of violence. As a mediator the United Nations is a failure and as a peace keeper with extensive powers to keep the peace it is an abject failure. In supervising this chain of havoc, the Security Council has employed double standards for one nation as against another. Last April the Secretary-General expressed his concern and anxiety about the ability of the Security Council to fulfil its functions. Several Western membersthe United Kingdom, the United States, and Italy- have deplored the increasing frequency of recourse to the Security Council on issues which present little or no threat to peace while it is debarred from discussing issues which are real threats. For example, despite the fact that by its charter the United Nations is precluded from interfering in the internal affairs of any country, it has a special committee set up to crush apartheid in South Africa, which has been the policy of that Government since 1948. Also, on 27 May this year the Security Council passed a resolution to close the four Rhodesian information centres situated around the world. Being a Security Council resolution, it becomes a mandatory requirement on member nations of the United Nations, and the Australian Government has started drafting the legislation. The United Nations and successive Australian governments have been opposed to apartheid since its inception in 1948 and to the white minority government in Rhodesia since the unilateral declaration of independence by  Mr Ian  Smith in 1 965. 
In the light of the United Nations peace keeping and mediating performance and that of the South African and Rhodesian governments and peoples over the years, it is high time that the situation was reassessed. I should like to look firstly at what has happened in South Africa. South Africa's apartheid policy has been depicted as an unjustifiable and repugnant system, as an affront to the dignity of man and a flagrant violation of fundamental human decency. Rhodesia, with its white minority government and following its unilateral declaration of independence, has been declared by the United Nations Security Council a threat to international peace. Successive Australian governments have accepted that picture as true and have supported the application of sanctions, both economic and trade, and visa restrictions against both countries. For years we have joined with the rest of the world and the United Nations in criticising and attacking those countries and in so isolating them that we now look at them as though through the wrong end of a telescope, as it were, and cannot see what is really going on there. Successive Commonwealth governments have wanted to see apartheid replaced by a society in which all have an equal right and opportunity to participate in the political process and in the creation and enjoyment of wealth, regardless of race. That goal is the goal of the apartheid policy. It is the only policy that promises self-government to all the different nations in South Africa. It is a policy dictated by history and by the contract situation in which all those peoples find themselves. 
Apartheid was a word, an election slogan introduced in 1948 by  Mr Malan.  It won the election and has had increasing support ever since. It now has support among all the national groups in South Africa. The main thing apartheid had going for it was that it was honest, which is unlike most other political philosophies, and the machinery for its introduction was well advanced long before 1948. It must be remembered that all the peoples in South Africa are immigrants and, for the most part, they all arrived at about the same time. However, there are two exceptions to that. The first is the coloured people, who now number about 2.5 million and live mainly around Cape Town. They say they arrived nine months after the First Fleet. The Indian population, which numbers about 800,000, lives mainly around Durban and arrived about 100 years ago. Those people were brought there by the British to man the sugar plantations in Natal because the Zulus refused to do such menial work. The original inhabitants, the Hottentots or Bushmen, have been virtually exterminated. They now number approximately 10,000 and live as itinerant hunters, wandering the Kalahari Desert. The white people lived in the Cape colony for 100 years before they ever ran into the black nations. This happened during the voortrekkers' great trek to escape British control. It was one of the most magnificent epics in history but it differed from all the others. The other epic treks were for gold or land or some other gain. This one was a leap into the unknown, purely and simply for freedom. 
-There has never been slavery in South Africa. One can but wonder at some of their lonely nights on the high veldt with the hazards of the terrain, the weather, invisible blacks and ferocious animals, animals that must make our animals look pretty cream puff. They found the black nations well settled on their home lands, the best grazing lands, for they were herdsmen or warriors. Their wealth was cattle and children, particularly daughters who could be traded for lobola to get more cattle, more wives and then more children. They had no cash mentality let alone a cash economy. But contact bred conflict and in the last century 14 Kaffir border wars were fought and the Bantus did not win one. None of the wars were over land, they were border skirmishes largely brought on by what we would call unfair trade practices on the part of the Bantu- largely cattle stealing. But the Bantus gained great respect for these hardy white men and women who were fiercely honest and prepared to fight to the death for their rights and freedom and,  Mr President,  they still are. That respect endures to this day. 
There have been no Kaffir wars or even incidents this century. The last wars the voortrkkers fought in South Africa were against the British. As usual, it was the discovery of gold and diamonds that brought complex problems. South Africa is like a tongue of land at the bottom of the African continent. In cross section it looks like a soup plate upside down. Around the periphery is a circle of robust parts. On top of the soup plate there is the huge JohannesburgPretoria axis. Within a couple of hundred miles of that axis live half the people in South Africa. Half the business is done there and half the production comes from there. Surrounding that axis, like a horseshoe open to the south west, he the nine Bantu nations. The ones to the north west speak their own language and English and the ones to the south east speak their own language and Afrikaans. So the Bantu nations have no common language. Language is our second most important possession. I brought home with me a copy of the Lord's Prayer in nine different languages, including English. I seek leave to have the document incorporated in  Hansard. 

 - Mr President, my question is directed to you. I ask whether it has been drawn to your attention that a Cattlemen's Union memorandum was placed in the Press boxes yesterday and that it read as follows: 
Australian Labor Party Rural Committee has invited Cattlemen's Union of Australia to hold discussions with Committee this evening. Union's National Director  Mr Barry  Cassell would be available 8.00 p.m.; Senate Committee Room No. 4 should the discussions be of any interest. 
I do not for a moment, of course, suggest that there might have been any interest. Nevertheless, could you,  Mr President,  inform honourable senators whether permission was sought to hold such interviews, with whom and at what place and time any interviews took place? Could you also confirm that it is still the practice, as indicated to me by your predecessor in this chamber on 22 October 1975, that when requests of this nature have been made for interviews with persons other than parliamentarians within Parliament House, such requests be refused? 
-I present the third and final report of the Senate Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce on its inquiry into the effects of currency alterations and changes to manufacturing industry protection on employment and inflation, including its effects on the prices of manufactured goods. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health and it follows upon questions by Senators Bonner, Keeffe and Cavanagh concerning the deferment of portion of the national trachoma campaign in Queensland. Is it not a fact that it was the elected Aboriginal councils of the Aboriginal communities in Queensland which requested the removal of the two field officers concerned in the Queensland trachoma campaign? I point out,  Mr President,  that the Aboriginal councils are elected and that the two field officers are self-appointed Aboriginal political activists. Is it not a fact that the Queensland Premier acceded to this request? Is it not also a fact that the national trachoma campaign continues in all other respects- medical, surgical and in conjunction with the Queensland program that has been in operation for 20 years- except for the suspension of these two Aboriginal political activists? 
I take this opportunity to congratulate  Senator Haines  on her maiden speech. It is a memorable occasion for all of us when we make our maiden speech. I am sure that it will be just as memorable for her and that she will take the memory of it with her all her life. I cannot agree with her interpretation of some of the voting figures in the last election, but if she can take comfort from the interpretation she should do so by all means. I also mention her quest to limit pornography in Australia. There are pitfalls in having an opinion contrary to that of the leader of one's party. If I were her I should check with my leader as to his policy on the introduction of pornography in Australia. 
I am honoured to support today the motion for the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General 's Speech at the opening of the Parliament. I congratulate  His Excellency  on it. I assure him of the loyalty of myself, my Party, the Government and, I am sure, the Parliament to him and  Her  Gracious Majesty the Queen. The scope of the policies this Government wishes to implement is almost mind-boggling in size and breadth. I wish the Government well. I am sure that its policies will get this country back on its feet and make it prosperous, peaceful and profitable. 
The portion of the Speech to which I shall pay attention is that in which the Government said that it will step up its program of scientific research and development in Antarctica in cooperation with the governments of many other countries. This matter is particularly topical. I note that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  this morning asked a very pertinent question about it. A big conference will be held in Australia next week on this issue. I took the trouble of informing myself about Antarctica. I think the Senate would be well advised to know something about it. It is a complex and most interesting subject. 
The development of Antarctica could have far reaching effects on the climate of the whole of this earth. It is the coldest, driest, windiest, least accessible, least known and generally one of the most unpleasant of the seven continents. Since 1959 it has been administered by several countries. They are Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Chile, France, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, South Africa, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. It has been administered under a treaty which froze territorial claims. It banned military activity and established free and open scientific co-operation. It is one of the very few international treaties which has worked well for so many years. However, in the last few years there has been growing tension between nations, largely over the exploitation of the resources of the area. These are considerable. It has krill, a type of shrimp, which could be a huge business. It probably has off-shore oil and gas. It has iron ore, uranium and several other minerals. 
The Antarctic continent itself covers one-tenth of the earth's land surface. It is divided by the trans-Antarctic range into east and west Antarctica. The east is the larger part, often called Greater Antarctica. The west is the lesser. The east is a vast ice plateau 13,000 feet high. Curiously, geologically it is older than the western section. The western section is dominated by ridges of mountain ranges which press up through the ice and snow cover. The ice is more than a mile thick and covers over 98 per cent of the land's surface. The area seems to have little or no daylight for 6 months of the year. The land mass itself is virtually lifeless, but the seas are amongst the most biologically productive in the world. 
The word 'krill' is a Norwegian word. It means whale food. There are many species of krill, but one is dominant. It is a crustacean. Krill are herbivores. They feed on phytoplanktons and look similar to shrimps. Surprisingly, they light up at night. When they swarm they make a blue-green fire in the ocean. That is important to the ecology of the area. Because they swarm they are easy to harvest. They come in shoals which can be a few feet or many acres across. Catch rates are often as high as 40 tonnes an hour. It has been estimated by the various governments involved that it is feasible to harvest 50 million tonnes of krill a year without detriment to the population. This compares to a total world catch of 60 million tonnes in 1974. They are reasonably high in protein. The protein content is 15 per cent, which is similar to that of crayfish. 
Some species contain more than that. The dominant species contain around 1 5 per cent. A harvest of 70 million tonnes can produce 20 grams of protein daily for one billion people. That is a quarter of the earth's population. However, commercial fishing has its problems. The swarming shoals are still difficult to locate. One of the big problems is that they spoil easily after catching. Japan and Russia have been investing heavily in research on catching these krill. Both countries use them extensively as a food. Experimental work is being done by many other countries such as West Germany, Chile and Poland. Thailand and Norway have expressed interest in that work. As yet no oil or gas has been found there but several smells of it have been found on the continental shelf. Recent United States reports claim that there are recoverable reserves of oil there similar to those in the Alaskan oilfields. The United States reports say that the extraction problems are not insurmountable. 
Speculation about Antarctica's mineral deposits revolves in part around the Gondwanaland hypothesis which holds that Latin America, Africa, India and Australasia were linked with Antarctica as recently as 100 million years ago. The theory is that similar deposits of minerals as those in the Andes, Australasia and the South African Rand may exist in Antarctica. Oil and gas such as are found off New Zealand, mainland Australia and Tasmania may be replicated in the Ross Sea where these finds have been made. At present no uranium has been found in Antarctica but similar rocks to those bearing uranium in Australia have been found in the Norwegian, Australian and French sectors of Antarctica. Coal was discovered by some of the earliest explorers in the Antarctica. It is found largely in the eastern sectors belonging to Australia, Norway and New Zealand and in those sectors could exist the largest coal deposit in the world. Unfortunately it is inaccessible and is relatively impure coal; nevertheless, it is there and if present world sources become depleted it may be won. 
Iron ore has been found in huge quantities especially in the Prince Charles Mountains in the east and it is potentially winnable. It is estimated that there is enough iron ore there to meet the present world demand for the next 200 years. So the quantity is immense. Even ice from Antarctica has been tested as a resource. The ice cap contains 70 per cent of the world's store of fresh water- I find these figures staggering- and 90 per cent of the world's ice. Each year 1.4 trillion tonnes break off and melt. That is 350 tonnes annually for every human being. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-When I began my speech last Thursday I discussed the situation in the Antarctic because it is currently of intense interest. A big conference in Canberra at the moment is discussing Antarctica. I mentioned that it is the coldest, windiest, driest, highest and the least accessible and least known of all the seven continents in the world. I mentioned that since 1959 it had been administered by 12 nations under one of the most successful international treaties in the world. The treaty froze all territorial claims there and banned military activity there. It established a free flow of scientific and technical knowledge between the cooperating nations. Currently, of course, there is growing tension around the world as we move to the development of the Antarctic. It has several resources, most of which are in huge supply. The ones in contention at the moment are largely krill, off-shore oil and gas, coal, iron ore, and the possibility of uranium and other minerals. 
Antarctica is a huge continent. It covers onetenth of the world's land surface. On Thursday last I mentioned that it is divided almost across the centre by the Transantarctic Range into an eastern section, which is the larger and geologically older section- it is a huge, high, frozen plateau more than 13,000 feet high- and a western section, ' Lesser Antarctica, which is dominated by mountain ranges which thrust up through the ice and snow. The ice is more than a mile thick and covers 98 per cent of the surface of Antarctica. There is little or no daylight there for six months of the year. The land mass itself is almost lifeless, but the seas around it are some of the most bountiful in the world. These seas abound in krill, which is a Norwegian sailor's word meaning whale food. There are many species of krill, which are rather like shrimps. They are herbivores, crustaceans, which feed on phytoplanktons. They are luminescent at night and tend to swarm and are therefore easy to harvest as long as they can be found. There are problems, of course, because it is often difficult to find the swarms and after the krill are caught they spoil very easily. Catch rates can be up to 40 tonnes an hour, which is really fishing. It is estimated that 50 million tonnes a year can be harvested without detriment to the krill population. That figure compares with a total world catch of 70 million tonnes in 1974. Krill have a protein content of about 1 5 per cent, with some species containing more than that. In other words, a 70 million tonne catch would provide 20 grams of protein for one billion people, which is one quarter of the world 's poplulation 
Two nations, Japan and Russia, are intensely interested in and have spent a lot of money on harvesting the krill. They process it and use it to a large extent for domestic consumption, although they also export it. Other nations, including West Germany, Chile and Poland are doing experimental work on krill, and Taiwan and Norway are showing interest in the area. 
It has been known for years as the food of whales, but now it is being harvested for protein and food for people. It is present in huge quantities, and that is why I mentioned the 40 tonne catches. To catch 40 tonnes of prawns an hour is tremendous fishing. I will say more about that later. No oil or gas has yet been discovered, but certainly there are smells of it, particularly on the continental shelf. Recent United States reports show that there could be as much oil in Antarctica as there is in the whole Alaskan field, and the Americans estimate that the extraction problems are not insurmountable. 
I have mentioned the Gondwanaland hypothesis, which holds that Antarctica was once joined to South America, Australasia and South Africa, and it is thought that the minerals, oil and gas in those areas might be replicated in the Antarctic region. The evidence found so far shows that that is probably so. Although no uranium has yet been discovered, rocks have been found in Antarctica that are very similar to Australian rocks which bear uranium. Of course, coal was discovered in some of the earliest explorations of Antarctica- in the eastern part, that is, the Australian, Norwegian and New Zealand sectors. Those areas could contain the world's largest coal deposits. However, the coal is inaccessible and is relatively impure. Iron ore has been found in huge quantities- almost mountains of it- in the Prince Charles Mountains in the east and is potentially winnable. It is estimated that there is sufficient iron ore there to satisfy world demand at the present rate for the next 200 years. However, because of the difficulties involved, I doubt that it will be mined until present deposits are depleted. 
Even the ice in Antarctica has been tested as a resource. Further staggering figures for the region show that the ice cap contains 70 per cent of the world 's store of fresh water and 90 per cent of the world's ice. Each year 1.4 trillion tonnes of ice break off and melt. That equals 350 tonnes of ice annually for each human being on earth. The French have researched the possibility of towing icebergs to the more arid parts of the world to see whether they can be used for water. 
Because Antarctica has many resources, a number of countries are now evincing an interest in actually owning parts of Antarctica. Between 1908 and 1946 six countries- Australia, Argentina, Chile, France, New Zealand and the United Kingdom- made formal territorial claims. These claims were based on discovery, occupation and performance of administrative acts such as issuing decrees, printing stamps, building post offices and continuity of activity and contiguity. The claims of the United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand cover two-thirds of the Antarcticcontinent. All the claims made to date have been pie-shaped and directed towards the South Pole, and five- those of Australia, France, New 
Zealand, Norway and the United Kingdomhave been recognised. Belgium, Japan and South Africa do not recognise any claims, while the United States and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics have reserved their rights. To compound the confusion, claims by Argentina, Chile and the United Kingdom overlap. In addition, 1 5 per cent of the area has never been claimed by anyone, but that portion is tacitly regarded as a United States area. A few countries have longstanding claims to various sub-Antarctic islands which were used as whaling and sealing bases. They are now deserted and relatively useless, but they are important because of the 200-mile exclusive economic zone. 
Not now. No claim in regard to the islands has been made, but they are important because of previous occupancy as sealing and whaling bases. During the International Geophysical Year in 1957-58 Antarctica was given very special attention, and 12 countries subsequently implemented scientific and research projects. A gentleman's agreement was made shelving all political activity in Antarctica and maintaining it as an international laboratory for research to be used only for peaceful purposes. The treaty was signed in 1951 and became operative in 1961, when it was signed by all 12 participating powers- the seven original countries as well as Belgium, Japan, South Africa, the United States and the USSR. Poland ratified the treaty in 1977, and it has been acceded to by Czechoslovakia, Denmark, the Netherlands, Rumania, the German Democratic Republic and Brazil. Federal Germany and Uruguay have expressed interest in acceding to the treaty, and several of the acceding nations are moving now to its ratification. 
The first provision of the treaty is that Antarctica is to be used only for peaceful purposes, but military personnel and equipment can be used for scientific and other peaceful purposes. The second provision relates to the freedom of scientific investigation and co-operation. The third provision relates to the freezing of the legal status quo. Fourthly, nuclear explosions and waste disposal are banned in Antarctica, and appointed observers from the participating powers have been given free right of access into any area. It is interesting to note that this is the first time the United States and the USSR have agreed to any mutual inspection rights. Full membership of the treaty is limited to the twelve original signatories and any acceding state demonstrating continued scientific interest and activity. However, the original treaty was ambiguous about the exploitation of the resources. For example it did not refer to the non-living resources and was very non-specific in its reference to the living resources. The reason for the conferences now being held is that the treaty powers disagree on whether exploitation on the land or the seabed is compatible with the treaty. That has raised several questions, not the least of which is who will decide the issue. 
In the second half of the twentieth century, there has been a thrust in law making for areas clearly that are beyond the natural jurisdiction of nations- for example, the moon, outer space and the seabed. Antarctica could be seen as another of these areas especially by those who wish to internationalise it; but to me that would appear to be a chimeric proposition. The United Nations Declaration of Principles of 1 970 stated: 
. the seabed, ocean floor and subsoil beyond the limits of national jurisdiction are the common heritage of mankind. 
Antarctica could be considered, in that sense, as similar to the seabed, as it is beyond the limits of national jurisdictions that are already recognised. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Japan are opposed to any mineral exploitation of the area. The United States favours it, and the position of other nations lies somewhere between the two. There is also division among the Treaty powers as to what forms of mineral exploitation are desirable. For example, some powers feel that any oil or gas which may be found on their claims belong to them. Australia is one of these. 
In settling these factors, certain truths should be borne in mind. First, Antarctic ecosystems contain relatively few species, and that these are extremely vulnerable to disturbance. Krill, for example, is the main link in a complex food web which supplies many oceans. Unwise harvesting could upset many different species of fish, up to and including the whale. The Southern Ocean may represent only 5 per cent of the world's ocean waters, but represents some 20 per cent of all the marine photosynthesis that takes place in those waters and photosynthesis is vital to the life of oceans. 
Antarctica plays an important role in the circulation in deep oceans, especially the circulation of nutriments that are carried to far flung fishing grounds that are important to other nations. Antarctica has a critical influence on oceanic and atmospheric circulation. Thus, of course, it has an effect on global climate. 
We do. Oil spills, leakages and blowouts could have a devastating effect down there. 
Yes. All development has some risk to it. 
In Antarctica such occurrences are almost inevitable, given the pack ice and its movement. There is the further difficulty that in that region it would take a lot longer for oil to degrade. Some estimates are that it might take 50 years and that, with diffusion and the movement of the ice, the oil could run onto the actual surface and thus alter the radiation balance. Another serious effect is that it could change the reflectivity of the surface and thus have global climatic implications for climate, including our own. 
As major conflicts ensue among conservationists, fisheries and mineral developers, we must see that a balanced approach is taken. This is what I plead for now, because, if we do not achieve that, all of us could be the losers. I take this opportunity of saying to the participants in the Conference presently being held in Canberra that I wish them well. 
-I see no difficulty in the proposition that the  President  should decide between matters of public importance. In fact, I think it is a Presidential prerogative and I do not think he would use any political judgment at all in making that decision. I do not envisage any problems about abridged debate arising from  Senator Chaney's  amendment. The item to which I want to turn my attention is No. 3 concerning the number of supporting signatures, or senators standing in their places. Apparently the number required since time immemorial when the Senate was just on half the size that it is now, has been four supporting senators for a debate on any matter of urgency. 
It is refreshing to hear the Labor Party speaking up in support of minor parties. Nevertheless, a matter of public importance should be a matter that is of public importance and should engender support. If a party has difficulty obtaining support from either side of the House or from other minor parties, the matter should be considered to be one that is not of public importance. I suggest that the number of supporting signatures required additional to the proposer of the matter of public importance should be raised to six in order to generate the same relative support as was deemed necessary when the Senate was about half its present size. In addition I suggest that as only one matter of public importance can be put before the Senate on any one day, the six senators who support one matter of public importance should not also be the supporters of another matter of public importance proposed for that day. Knowing that there is only one resolution to go before the Senate, honourable senators themselves should have to decide which matter is more important before the decision is put to the  President. 
-In relation to clause 3 I think some explanation of the Queensland Act is due. There was an inordinate amount of criticism of it during the second reading debate and criticism of the Queensland Premier and the Queensland Government. We may think that the Aborigines Act is good or bad. But a good law is a law made by a community for that community and one which that community will observe. The Queensland Act was prepared by the Aborigines. Whether we think it is good or bad makes little difference if it is a law that the Aborigines want. It was not only prepared by the Aborigines, it was also approved by them. The law is updated every six months in consultation with the Aborigines. The Queensland Premier himself promised the Aborigines that they could have the Act altered, amended or even abolished if they so wished. At this very minute the Act is undergoing a complete updating in full consultation with the Aborigines. It should be understood that whether we think the Act is good or bad, it is an Act made by the Aborigines for the Aborigines and we should respect it. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In a Press statement issued on 3 1 March this year the Foreign Minister announced that recent research had shown that three of the Torres Strait Islands-Kawa, Mata Kawa and Kussawere not among the islands annexed to Queensland at the end of the last century. Accordingly, these islands are to be recognised as part of New Guinea. As all the evidence and maps that I can find show these islands to be part of Queensland, will the Minister publish the research that led to this decision? 
-1 address myself to the problem of inter-racial relations. The problem has been highlighted in recent weeks in this Parliament and in this country. In this context I refer to the passage of the six Bills in the nuclear package- each of which in its own way represented part of the dilemma of inter racial relations, particularly the Aboriginal lands legislation- the urgency debate in the Senate about Aurukun and Mornington Island, the debate which involved the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders, (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act, the problems we have had with the influx of boat people from Thailand, the refugees from Vietnam and the Papua New Guineans coming into the Torres Strait Islands, the controversy just yesterday over the Booroloola land claim report, our attitude to South Africa and Rhodesia compared with our attitude to other countries and the outbreak of several wars in black Africa, which is now alight with wars. All these examples highlight the dilemma of inter-racial relations that is bedevilling us at the moment. 
At the beginning of human history all the peoples occupied separate parts of the earth. The black man was in one part, the white man in another, the red man in another and the yellow man in another. It is only in recent centuries, largely due to the technology of the white man, that we have begun to mix up the races. We have tried integration, assimilation, segregation and other forms of race relations as solutions. There are some lessons to be learnt from these various experiments. At present it appears to me that of all the different coloured races on the earth today only one race is being used for world wide political warfare, and that is the black race. The black man is being used ruthlessly and mercilessly. 
It also appears that two of the horsemen of the modern apocalypse are the ideological conflict between the East and the West and the racial conflict between black and white. Indeed, these twin horsemen of the modern apocalypse have now been harnessed together so that the ideological philosophy of the East is being used to cause racial conflict in the West and thus hide the imperialistic expansion of the East. I exempt here the most recent conflict between North and 
South which is an economic one resulting in the new international economic order which will bedevil us shortly. Our problems in this interracial dilemma in Australia are only minor when compared with those of the rest of the world. Nevertheless, we must wrestle with them as best we can and avoid the pitfalls that have befallen other nations and also avoid the mistakes that have been made by our own forefathers, black and white. In the current contretempo that is worrying us at the moment the operative word has been self-determination. We should be clear in our heads what we mean by self-determination. It is a lofty concept. Few would argue with the proposition that each nation should be given the opportunity to run its own affairs according to the wishes of its people. 
I do not regard self-determination as a right; it is an opportunity that has to be earned. To seize that opportunity each nation has to be able to afford to grasp it. In other words, there is a price to pay for self-determination. For example in recent years the Uniting Church in Australia in north Queensland has been prosecuting a policy of self-determination for the Aborigines living in the communities of Aurukun and Mornington Island. The method used was contrary to the Queensland Government policy and this caused conflict. But the Aborigines there have never had a cash mentality, let alone a cash economy. So if they were going to be able to pursue a policy of self-determination they had no means of paying for it. Obviously they could not do it by cash and so they would have to do it by some other means. If they want self-determination it is up to us to show them how to achieve it by other means than cash. If we make Aborigines on reserves parasites on the rest of the country- pumping in money and grog- it effectively destroys the Aboriginal culture and lifestyle and also denigrates the taxpayers. 
In other parts of the world there are successful examples of white persons having worked with black people towards self-determination, selfgovernment, self-management and self-respect for them both. We should take advantage of the experience of those peoples. That would help us with our problems. I think that if we made more use of ethnologists in Australia rather than health, education and welfare workers with these people we would be a lot better off and so would our Aborigines. In this chamber charges have been made that the Queensland Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders legislation is discriminatory and repressive and a blight on race relations in this country. That represents part of the dilemma. If this is so honourable senators must remember that that legislation was designed and approved by the Queensland Aborigines and Islanders. It was not formed as a policy by the white man with a view to discriminating against these people. In fact, if anything, that legislation discriminates against the white man but it does so in a fashion that was acceptable to the white man. 
The important thing I wish to say is that the legislation is what the Aborigines and Islanders wanted and it had built into it all their requirements including continual change up to and including the termination of the legislation. It was subject to continual scrutiny by the Aborigines and Islanders Advisory Council whose advice was given and taken every six months since the inception of the legislation. The legislation was recently subjected to a total review by the people themselves. It can be altered, amended or abolished if the consensus of the Council so wishes it. Nobody was required to live under that legislation. Such disciplines as were in it were placed there by the Aboriginal and Islander Councils themselves for the sake of their communities. 
I return to the subject of self-determination and the price we all have to pay for it. The possession of land is basic to the whole concept of self-determination. There is only one truly dispossessed people in the world today and they are the gypsies. Until recently the Jews were disposesssed people. They lived as a diaspora scattered throughout the whole world for hundreds and hundreds of years until they bought Israel. They were occasionally purged from some countries. For example, they were purged from Great Britain under Edward I. Now they have turned the desert of Israel into an oasis, but they are still fighting tooth and nail to hold it. Before all that the Jews had been slaves of the Egyptians for hundreds of years. So dire was their plight that it took an act of God to release them. But once in their land of milk and honey their behaviour deteriorated to such depths of depravity that when Moses descended from the mountain with the Ten Commandments he was furious and smashed the Ten Commandments tablets. So self-determination for the Jews has exacted a huge and continuing price for them to pay. 
Nearly all other nations have had to pay enormous prices before they could determine their own futures. Countries have been over-run by invaders, often many times, before the people could establish their own security and selfdetermination. Even after events such as these nations have been involved often in bloodcurdling civil wars- for example, Great Britain and the United States of America. Most of the wars throughout history seem to have been between people of the one ethnic group- Arabs and Israelis, Hutu and Watutsi, Greek and Turk. These are the long protracted wars. People like Hannibal, Ghengis Khan, the Caesars, Napoleon and Hitler are like comets that scour the surface of the earth every now and then. But the real wars appear to be between people of the one ethnic group. They occur only when one section gets economic dominance over the other section. 
The point I am making is that the price of selfdetermination is monumental. Nobody can sit down and scream out 'I want selfdetermination'; neither can anybody say to other people Here, you have to have self-determination'. But there are examples of that around the world. For example, the policy of the United States of America is 'Thou shalt integrate'; the policy of the Government of South Africa is 'Thou shalt segregate'. But it is the people themselves who have to reach that decision. They must reach comity. They must decide what they want, where they want it and what price they are prepared to pay for it because usually anything one gets for nothing has very little value unless it is personal. 
In the dilemma of inter-racial relations back in the tribal days problems were settled very simply by the stronger people exterminating the weaker people. This solution left very little problem for future generations but eventually it became impractical as often it was impossible to kill all the other people and reprisal raids became a constant irritation. A modification of that solution was used when the English-speaking peoples moved out from Europe to the distant world. It was used against the Indians in the United States and Canada, the Maoris in New Zealand, and the Aborigines in Australia. In that context, in the United States scalping was not an Indian pastime; it was white man's pastime. It was used as a tally for the number of Indians killed much the same as we use rat tails to count the number of rats killed in cities today. The Indians adopted the idea only as a reprisal against the white man. 
The Indians were either slaughtered or driven steadily into more and more inhospitable lands where they were almost wiped out by starvation and disease. Traces of these depredations remain to this day. Canadian and United States Indians cannot look forward to a long and prosperous life. In this context I cite an article that appeared in the  Northern Territory Newsletter  of April 1978, entitled 'Coal: The Last Chance for the 
Crow', that is, the Crow Indians in Montana who are having difficulties negotiating with coal companies, their State Government and their Federal Government. At the bottom the issue is whether that tribe, in effect a self-governing entity, will be able to negotiate a financial agreement equivalent to those being demanded- and won- by Third World governments. 
The article shows that these Crows do not regard themselves as American citizens but as another people with another government within the United States of America. According to the article, the tribe has been run as a true democracy. Every decision taken by the Crow leaders must be approved by a majority vote in tribal council. But at the moment the tribe is divided into two rival factions, one being led by a chap named Forrest Horn and the other by Patrick Stands Over Bull, the former  chairman  who was impeached for alleged corruption last summer. Both groups, however, are under pressure to get an 'up front' payment from the people who want to develop coal mines on their lands. The universal feeling is apparently that 'the fast nickel beats the slow dime' because, if they want a huge 'up front' payment, they will get a lot of money at the beginning but not such a good deal in the end. Outside the office of one of the officials a sticker which proclaims 'Custer Had It Coming' is pasted on the wall. The article continues: 
. observers familiar with the tribe say that the Crows' political fragmentation has a long history. 'The Crows are the Armenians of Indian country', one said, ' For every four points of view there are five factions'. 
Behind this tradition lies another, perhaps even more destructive. The tribe's insistence on an up-front cash bonus, some say, can be traced to the annual handout, held on every Indian reservation, when the Government presented blankets, trinkets and food to the tribes as a sort of reward for their being 'good' Indians. 
The dependent psychology thus created has, if anything, been reinforced in recent years. Almost 70 per cent of the jobs held by Crows living on the reservation are with the Government, mostly clerical positions. 

 Mr Old Coyote who is an economist on the reservation said: 
We have been asked why we can't get together and just wait for our profits . . . other nations, who are poorer than we are, have waited. But the difference is that they have never known anything else, and we have. We have tasted the manna from heaven, and it 's harder for us. 
This is only a short article. Could I ask leave of the Senate for it to be incorporated in  Hansard  at the end of my speech. There are other salutory lessons in it. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Robertson)-  Has it been shown to the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  and the Opposition? 
I have not shown it to anyone but it was distributed to the offices of all senators today. 
It contains two and a half pages; it is not a long article. 
Yes, certainly. So much for the American Indians but similar short shrift was given to the Australian Aborigines who survived only because they could live in deserts that were of no interest at that time to the white man. The Maoris resisted the whites but they were beaten and driven off their best lands and survived only in those parts which the white man did not want at that time. An additional feature of the Canadian expansion in the far north was the ruthless exploitation of the land that restricted the Eskimo's economy and brought starvation and death to large sections of that population. 
I mention these examples to show what people even with the highest religious and moral principles will do to others when their own survival is threatened. It would be futile to attach blame for these acts now just as it would be futile to expect living whites to accept responsibility for this sorry history although the people of the Third World today appear to be doing this and expecting reparations for the acts that have occurred throughout history. Obviously these historical events are not the responsibility of those whites who today occupy Canada, the United States, New Zealand and Australia. But the fact remains that the territories that they occupy now belonged to the ancestors of those people who now live on reserves, in deserts and urban ghettoes. 
Of course these indigenous people themselves in turn may have wiped out previous nations in order to gain their territories. Certainly they engaged in plenty of tribal warfare. This then was one way of dealing with the racial problem- to slaughter most of them and drive the rest into a restricted living area. The survival of these peoples- Aborigines, Indians, Eskimoes and Maoris- has largely been due to the recognition of land on which they have been allowed to live and somehow salvage something from the wreckage of their lives. I am unaware that any of the English-speaking governments of those countries ever instituted a policy of integration and assimilation of the native populations. Indeed it was quite the contrary. They initiated policies of segregation with as little racial integration as possible. 
In the United States another racial problem is posed by the negroes who were first taken there as slaves following another well known pattern of inter-racial relations. The negro slaves of the Americas were taken there not as the result of one battle but as the result of literally thousands of battles. Their capture was not merely due to the fact that the Europeans had firearms, although that fact alone indicates a difference in aptitudes and abilities between the two races, but many were captured by other negroes and sold to European and Arab slavers. There were more powerful and aggressive negro tribes who preyed on their own kind's lack of courage and lack of numbers because of their inability to be successful in their own environment and their inability to organise resistance or escape. In view of this, as long as any degree of natural selection exists, the American negroes can never compete in the white man's industrialised and technological society. They are permanently condemned to an inferior social position in the white man's world. 
The United States Government has mobilised mammoth organisations, released mass propaganda and enacted legislation in favour of the negroes. Unlike the Indians the number of negroes is increasing and their wellbeing is in every way better than that of the Indians. It is the Indians who have at least equal claims on moral grounds and immeasurably higher claims on historical and legal grounds. This to me is real racial discrimination. But there is no outcry from the United Nations about this. To me the reason is self-evident. Only the black man fits the world pattern of international political warfare directed against the West by the East, ls it any wonder that the countries most clamant against racial discrimination are those who practise it most, that is Great Britain, the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. 
Another form of racial relationship was conquest and enslavement. For example, the Romans conquered and enslaved the Germans and the Celts and the Germans enslaved the Celts and the Slavs. In these circumstances a caste system develops in contrast to the vertical division that occurs when a weaker people are confined on reserves. A classic example of the caste system is seen in India. When the Caucasian white Hindus conquered the subcontinent they reduced the indigenous Australoid blacks to slavery and thraldom. This system became fortified by legal, social and religious sanctions and it survives to this day despite missionary zeal and  Mr Nehru's  legislation. The same caste system came about in the Americas with slavery. Although there was some inevitable miscegnation, the hybrids passed back into the enslaved black population. 
The caste system cannot last indefinitely when two races have nearly the same aptitudes and abilities. For example, although the German peoples conquered most of Europe and the lower half of Britain, the difference between the peoples has largely disappeared. However desirable it may be on ethical and religious grounds, the caste system cannot be obliterated when there are vast differences in abilities and aptitudes between peoples because the caste system results from something more than a mere accident of history. As long as the black man with his racial origins and culture is forced to compete with the white man with his racial origins and culture, the black man will be forced to the lowest level of the white man 's technical, industrial, dynamic, acquisitive and creative society. That is to say, integration is a misdirected policy and is injurious to the black man. 
In the United States racial hatred is welling up in negroes who are the victims of this misguided policy of integration. These negroes have been robbed of their land, their lore, their language, their family, their tribe, their culture and their customs. We have only to look at the experiences of Malcolm X and Martin Luther King. These people identified with their African origins, not with their American origins. It is wrong to think that nurture is more important than nature; to think that education and improved social conditions will beat nature. Each person from every race represents his own small individual slice of history, unique and unrepeatable and only nature can afford to play the huge genetic lotteries of genetic selection. Nature follows inexorable laws. No solution to racial problems will be found by a falsification of the laws of nature or the evidence of history. All races are different. All people are different. Each person is different from every other. 
Those people who wish to translate blacks from their history, culture and society to white history, culture and society on the grounds of equality are condemning the blacks to an unequal struggle with the whites. Such a translation can end only in tragedy for the blacks, as seen in the United States. The products of integration are irreversible and they result in the exploitation of the blacks. The exponents of egalitarianism condemn the blacks to perpetual purgatory in a white society. All men are made to live among groups of their own kind, competing against their own kind, and using the physical and mental apparatus common to their group. Most of the stable states today, black and white, have carved out a living space for themselves in each of which the people have developed as a distinct entity. This is a natural and desirable form of evolution. Governments which promote this principle do mankind a service. No government is perfect and no society is perfect. If hardship and injustice are inflicted on one part of a community in satisfying the needs of another, efforts should be made to ameliorate this without vitiating the principle itself. 
The advantages of separate development are overwhelming. The people are ruled by their own leaders instead of by outsiders. Racial strife is avoided under separate development but under integration it is inevitable because even the ablest of the blacks is in unequal competition with the ablest of the whites and envy and hatred become the order of the day. Administratively, everything is much easier with separate development. The vernacular is used in communications and education. One set of local laws is known to everybody. The principles of customs and doing things are common to the whole nation. There is no minority to be aggrieved. There is no majority to believe that the minority is holding up its progress as is now the case in regard to schooling in Britain and the United States where the blacks now are resented. 
Furthermore, a fairer system of education is possible under separate development. Great efforts have been made in trying to disprove that there are no marked differences in aptitude between blacks and whites. It should be no surprise to anyone that when whites and blacks are tested on white ideas and aptitudes the whites win but when they are tested on black ideas and aptitudes the blacks win. Thus, it is not friendly, charitable or Christian to force black and white school integration in a white society. It consigns the blacks to scrambling along continually behind the whites. It is immoral to force blacks into the same educational sausage machine that the whites have to suffer. To throw blacks from an entirely different culture into direct competition with whites on white terms, where the whites have all the advantages, is the height of cruelty. In my opinion separateness is infinitely better and the further it is developed the better. Each section can develop its own leadership and feel proud that men like themselves are at the apex of their people. It is the integrated society that exploits the black man. He is used for household and industrial labour and to do menial jobs that whites will not do- as in Great Britain. 
Many blacks live in sub-standard, even condemned properties unfit for whites. Many publicists and church men support coloured immigration in an attempt to justify their unfounded theories and basic insecurities for which the coloured are mere guinea pigs. Certain employers also are in favour of it because it allows them cheap labour. In this context I shall quote the words of the Australian Aboriginal boxer, George Bracken, in an article entitled 'The Aborigine' which appears at pages 19 and 20 of the  Australian International News Review  dated 28 May 1965. These are George Bracken's words: 
In my opinion what is needed now to train the Aborigines to live in a white world, as they must, is to give them a selfcontained community of their own. 
This should take the form of an Aboriginal township. Complete with all the shopping facilities, housing and schools found in any community. 
With this difference: Every official, every teacher, every businessman in this community would be an Aborigine. It would be an experimental township teaching citizenship to Aborigines. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Robertson)-  Leave can be sought for that only at the end of  Senator Sheil  's speech. 
George Bracken continued: 
With this difference: Every official, every teacher, every business-man in this community would be an aborigine. It would be an experimental township teaching citizenship to aborigines- with aborigines, already trained in the white world as instructors. 
White Australia has come a long way since Governor Philip met his first aborigines, ls not Black Australia also entitled to some advancement? 
In fact, it has been held back as a deliberate policy. The outback needs its cheap labour force and the aborigines have been compelled to provide it. Only recently has this been reversed in any way. 
But the aim of this suggested advance must not be to blend white Australia with black. 
My own view is that total assimilation would be a pity because it would remove from the Australian scene one of the differences that make Australia an individual country. 
My people don 't think white thoughts. 
Our culture is not yours either. It has a truly Australian individuality about it and a vigour which can, and does, stimulate yours. 
The painting of Albert Namatjira, for one example, showed European painters that there were other ways of looking at the Australian scene than theirs. 
Aboriginal music and dancing, again, is uniquely ours. 
Under the present system, and with the efforts of a lot of well-meaning people- and a few, quite a few, not so wellmeaning we aborigines are being pressured into some kind of off-white uniformity, and never mind what we want. 
Deep down the aborigine does not want to be pushed into some shape that he rebels against as an individual, nobody does! He wants to be able to make his own way of life. 
The pressures brought to bear on him can make him ready material for the trouble-makers and the groups who like to jump on the social bandwaggon of 'working for the aborigines' welfare.' 
Much of the latest agitation about the aborigine is stirred up by communists and other left-wingers who like to make trouble by becoming the self-appointed champions of the under-privileged black man. The aboriginal soul is not communist but highly individual. At the bottom he wants to retain and foster this individuality. 
He  underprivileged and teaching him to live on handouts until somehow he is assimiliated, or forgotten, is not the answer. 
It breeds resentment. That resentment is strongest against those who try to use the aborigine for their own purposes, taking advantage of his position. 
One such group is the comumunists, who hypocritically take over our cause on the pretence that they intend to help us. Their only genuine intention is to use us for their own ends, as the reds and other left-wingers have operated in the United States. 
As well as the countries I have mentioned so far in this discussion on inter-racial relations- Britain, Canada, the United States, Australia and New Zealand- mention must be made of the Portuguese and their efforts in the East Indies, Mozambique and Angola. For one reason or another, the Portuguese stood steadfastly against segregation and for integration, as steadfastly as do the United States, Britain and other countries now. Nevertheless, they have been denounced as colonialists, despite the fact that the Portuguese were strong critics of separate development. Critics of the Portuguese point to the fact that in their colonies the whites were at the top of the social ladder and the blacks at the bottom, a situation that they say was gerrymandered. But under the Portuguese system advancement depended on merit. Under the Portuguese system the blacks were unable to oust the whites in a battle on the white 's terms. 
On my thesis, that is exactly what would be expected. That is, integration permanently condemns blacks to an inferior social position in a white society, and even if integration is enforced a caste system of segregation will develop. Except for a few exceptional blacks, they cannot compete in a white technological and industrial society when their society is so different. For integration to succeed a new society flying in the face of nature would have to be created, a society born equally of black and white minds, a society  abondoning  white ways and technological  progress, a society reverting to agrarian pursuits. My thesis is that all men of all races are equal but different- and thank God they are so. It is wrong to say that black society has not developed because the blacks have not had the opportunity or that their physical and social environment has been against them. It is wrong to think that giving special privileges to correct those disabilities will produce a black Cicero or Archimedes or Pythagoras or Shakespeare or Darwin or Einstein and all the others who have been necessary to produce white society. Blacks are different and they are developing along different lines- not worse, not better, but different. By the way, blacks are not socialists; they are royalists, always having a chief or a king or an elite leadership. Blacks have never been subject to the dictatorship of the proletariat. 
The discredited theory that black and white are equal is being prosecuted only for political reasons to the detriment of the black man. We are equal but different, and the difference is just as important as the equality. Integration cannot work, as shown by the experiences of Britain, the United States, Spain in the Americas, and Portugal. Inter-breeding between the races is equally futile as a policy. As an example, consider the experience of the Portuguese and Spanish people. All of those experiments have wound up in a caste system with the whites on top, the darker people underneath, and the blacks on the bottom. This coffee-coloured solution to the racial problem is promulgated by moralists, church people, socialists and other ignorant humbugs. The solution would reduce mankind to chaos and misery, as shown by the experiences of Spain, Portugal and India. Indeed, when Portugal left Timor, Mozambique and Angola she left behind chaos, revolution, bloodshed, poverty and misery. The blacks are being made the victims of a political philosophy disguised as a desire to promote their welfare, and such victimisation will distort their natural development. It will rob them of their selfrespect. It will rob them of their own achievements, their own way of life - 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is it a fact that the communities of Goulburn and Elcho Islands have petitioned the Federal Government for the removal of the Uniting Church in Australia from their management because of excessive fees being charged and inefficient administration? Has the Minister any information on the situation in these Islands? 
I ask the Minister for Science: Apart from seismic activity in the Adelaide and Kalgoorlie regions, is there any other region of Australia affected by seismic activity? If so, where has it been recorded? Is there a dormant fault in the Sydney region? 
-I take this opportunity from the floor of the Senate of congratulating you,  Mr Deputy President,  on your election to the position of  Deputy President.  I was happy to support your election and I look forward to years of association with you in that position. I also congratulate, in his absence, the  President  on his re-election. I have enjoyed years of service with him and look forward to further years of service under his presidency. I also congratulate those new senators who have made their maiden speeches although I would like to apologise to  Senator Mason,  who is not here at the moment, for having been called out of the chamber when he was halfway through his maiden speech. Being a doctor in the Senate does have its disadvantages and I was called to a case at the time. To those who are yet to make their speeches I extend my congratulations in advance because this is the last time that honourable senators will hear my dulcet tones in the Senate for several weeks. I wish them well. 
This Overseas Projects Corporation Bill represents a teaming up of private enterprises and government to the best interests not only of Australian firms but also of our overseas image and the betterment of the Australian people. The Bill will engender a lot of trade for us. It is the result of Australian firms having to compete for tenders in countries that have centralised economies. This has created great difficulties for our firms. The Bill will be of great assistance in this respect. 
It will help Australian firms in their tendering and, through the provision of information that our firms would not otherwise have available to them, with Government backing and Government expertise, a lot of which already is contained in existing Government instrumentalities, the Corporation will open up further avenues to our Australian firms when they are tendering. 
The powers and functions of this Corporation are vastly different from those that were proposed for the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation by the Australian Labor Party in, I think, 1975 when it was in government. I can remember fighting against that Bill. 
That is exactly right. 
This is not public enterprise. This is the teaming up of government and private enterprise to help private enterprise. The Bill which the Labor Government proposed specifically sought to promote trade with countries which had centrally planned economies. In some middle eastern countries that corporation would have acted as a full agent to buy and sell, to import and export, and this would have created unfair competition with private enterprise. I can see how this proposal would have appealed to people with the Medibank mentality but it was anathema to me. We fought that proposal in the Senate and the Bill was blocked here in 1975. 
The Bill now before us is a lot narrower than that Bill and is not intended to do any of the things that the other Bill was intended to do. Labor's Bill was concerned only with the development of overseas projects and, largely, big ones. The Corporation is actually prohibited from entering into trading relationships and is due to commence operations in 1978-79. The legislation has three main provisions. The first deals with the provision of information to Australian firms who want to trade. The second deals with assistance in negotiations- for example, the provision of technical advice or the joining of a consortium. The Corporation can join a consortium only at the request of private enterprise. It cannot act on its own initiative. 
I think that the honourable senator takes the point too far. The situation would not arise that an agreement had been made, the construction was half completed and the Government then pulled out of the whole deal. That is not contained in the Bill and it is not intended by the Bill, although there is a right of appeal provision in the Bill. The third main provision deals with the Corporation, if requested, being able to carry out the whole or part of any overseas project- it has to be an overseas project- with a view to engaging private firms to do the work. In other words the Government merely acts as an intermediary. 
Part III and Part IV of the Bill relate to the establishment of the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation Board and the appointment of a managing director- he will be a man of considerable expertise and he will be a full time appointee- and staff. The Board will consist of seven part time directors, four of whom will come from the private sector, one of whom is required to have particular knowledge of rural industries. Part V sets out the financial and accounting policies and responsibilities of the Corporation. The Bill provides that the Corporation must act commercially. In other words it must charge fees for its services. Accordingly its costs will be inbuilt into the costs of the project and will not be a cost on the Australian Government except for the initial expenses of setting it up. The cost to get it off the ground will be $2m- $lm initially, with another $lm following that. The Corporation is empowered to enter into liabilities of up to $50m in order to establish projects overseas. 
The Bill has come about because of evolution. Over the last 10 years there has been a massive expansion in investment in developing countries, particularly in the Middle East. In addition international financial institutions, such as the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank, are providing funds for development projects in the developing countries to improve their infrastructures, to increase their food production and to establish new industry capacity. These projects are making a growing contribution to international trade. There is increasing international competition to capture these projects, and it is because of the disadvantage to Australian firms that this Corporation is being formed. Overseas governments, particularly those of the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and even South Korea, lend massive help to companies and corporations from their countries in tendering for these contracts. Because of their lack of local domestic capacity the developing countries themselves prefer to have some government commitment to the firms which are tendering for development projects in their countries. Many of the projects in these countries are undertaken by international consortia because of the complexity in the design and construction of projects and the purchases that have to be made. Australian firms mostly have this expertise and capacity and the technical capability required for consulting, contracting and providing services. 
These projects are largely big ones, and Australian firms are largely small. So they need extra help. Over the years several Australian firms have requested government assistance simply because of these inequalities in competition, and the Government studied the situation intensively in 1976 and 1977. It sought submissions from many of the firms which were interested in this area. It consulted the Trade Development Council, and the result has been the promulgation of this Bill. I am happy to support the Bill and to give the support of the National Country Party to the Bill. 
Debate interrupted. 
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate  Senator Watson  on making his maiden speech last night. He was most impressive and obviously is a true Tasmanian. I think that we can look forward to his being a staunch and intrepid fighter for the rights of that State. I might say also that I was reassured and refreshed to hear  Senator Tate's  nice analysis of the proposal to disallow the Australian Capital Territory the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance. I found it as refreshing to hear him do that as I am sure  Senator Melzer  found  Senator Puplick  's analysis of the situation. I am confident that the senators of the National Country Party view the proposed disallowance of this Ordinance as a move against the policy of the Government. If we persist with disallowing this Ordinance, we will be virtually inflicting self-government on the Australian Capital Territory when the Territory itself has not given an indication as to whether or not it wants self-government. I think that the issue is as basic as that. 
We have had huge arguments on the pros and cons of abortion and the freedom to have an abortion. The Government has made its attitude entirely clear on the matter. It has considered the advice of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly and come up with an ordinance. The fact remains that unlike the Bantustans in South Africa the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly has virtually no powers of self-government. The Constitution and the law state that this Government is responsible now for law in the Territory now if we persist in forcing this issue we will really be imposing selfgovernment to the Territory. All honourable senators know that a referendum is due to be held on 25 November on what powers, if any, are to be passed over to the Australian Capital Territory. I think that when this motion to disallow the Ordinance was first promulgated in the Senate the important issue was not the Ordinance itself but the interference with selfgovernment in the Territory, but it does not have self-government at the moment. I think that the selection of abortion as an issue was a rather crafty move. As senator after senator has said, it has proven to be perhaps the most sensitive issue that one could raise. We have all received at least two kilograms of mail on the matter. We are in a situation of having a free conscience vote on an issue that affects self-government in the Capital Territory. 
I am confident that National Country Party senators will reject any motion to rescind the Ordinance. I regard the contingent motion foreshadowed yesterday, the emergency letters sent round last night by the mover of the motion and the amendments which have been suggested today purely as legislative gymnastics to try to rectify the position that we have been forced into by this motion to disallow the Ordinance. 
It is a conscience vote for members of the National Country Party, but I feel sure that the important issue is selfgovernment in the Australian Capital Territory. If we persist with the attitude of the supporters of this motion to disallow the Ordinance, we will inflict self-government on the people of the Territory when they have not given us an indication of whether they want it. I regard the rest of the argument as a red herring. That is the case I wish to put before the Senate. 

 - Mr President, I present the report and transcript of evidence of the Senate Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce of its inquiry into the Australian Trade Commissioner Service. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 

 Mr President, I have much pleasure in presenting the Committee's report on the Trade Commissioner Service. In doing so, I should like to thank the members of the Committee for their interest and co-operation throughout the inquiry. 
In the course of the inquiry the Committee was sorry to lose the services of  Senator Don  Cameron, who resigned from the Senate at the end of his term in June of this year. From his appointment in March 1976,  Senator Cameron  gave freely of his time and, in his quiet, congenial and yet determined way, contributed a great deal to the work of the Committee.  His  place on the Committee has now been taken by  Senator Gietzelt,  whose wealth of experience will be a welcome asset to the Committee in the future. 
This report is one of a number the Committee has presented under a general reference dealing with the promotion of Australia's trade and commerce with other countries. As part of this continuing reference, the Committee resolved on 8 September 1977 to examine the Trade Commissioner Service. 
The Committee received more than 70 submissions on the subject and heard supporting evidence from 37 witnesses over 16 days of public hearings. On the Committee's behalf, I should like to thank all those who made submissions to the inquiry or who appeared as witnesses at the hearings. 
In conducting our investigations, we would have liked to visit the 50-odd Trade Commissioner posts around the world. As that was plainly not possible, we had to rely heavily on representatives of export companies for their views on the effectiveness of the Trade Commissioner Service. From these comments, together with descriptions of their role by the Trade Commissioners themselves, we were able to draw conclusions about the operations of the Service. 
From the outset, it was obvious that the Trade Commissioner Service is highly regarded by the international business community. It is interesting to note that the structure of the Service has been used as a blueprint by other countries in establishing their own trade missions overseas. 
The vast majority of witnesses were quick to praise the efforts of the Trade Commissioners in developing and servicing our overseas markets. At the same time, most were able to point to aspects of the Service's operations in which improvements could be made. 
In its report, the Committee has made a number of recommendations and it is my earnest hope that the Government will heed its advice in the interests of our export community and Australia's trade representation abroad. 
On behalf of the Committee, I pay a tribute to our own secretariat headed by Robert Alison. These people bring a wealth of expertise to our committees. Our Standing Committee has had three secretaries so far and each one has brought to bear his own particular expertise, and we are grateful for that. I commend the report to the Senate. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make an explanatory statement on the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association's report. 
Leave granted. 

 - Mr President, perhaps I could presume on the Senate just a little more to express my congratulations to  Senator MacGibbon  on his maiden speech last night. I thought that it was a very forthright and well thought out maiden speech. I also was interested to hear his exposition on the scientific method. I use it myself but I think that one has to be careful when using it because sometimes one can stumble upon the truth, and the truth can be a very dangerous weapon when used. 
I welcome the report and extend my thanks to the parliamentary officers who organised it for us, particularly  Mr Alan  Browning who was the secretary of the delegation and who made our stay so much easier. I suppose that if it had not been for me, very few people would have known that there was a Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference in Jamaica. I became involved in another of those incidents which raised world headlines and I think that the Senate deserves some explanation. 
The debate in which it occurred was on the first day at a plenary session and the subject to be covered was 'The World Situation and Threats to Peace'. Delegate after delegate got up and did not dwell very long on the world situation but  concentrated on threats to peace. They ignored the split that had occurred between Russia and the United States, the split which occurred at that time between Russia and China and the split between Russia and Vietnam. They ignored the Middle East, the slaughter that is going on in Cambodia and the actual war that was taking place in Nicaragua and concentrated their whole attack on Rhodesia and South Africa.  Speaker  after  speaker  mixed up the issues of slavery, colonialism and neo-colonialism, imperialism, hegemony, racism, discrimination and freedom, and heaped all these charges onto South Africa and Rhodesia. I eventually got the call and, I thought, in a most moderate way suggested that perhaps they should reassess their attitudes to these countries in the light of the facts. I have here a transcript of the speech that I made that day. It includes all the interjections and the comments made by other delegates from Australia, as well as the first sentence of the following  speaker. Mr President,  I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard  so that people will know exactly what I said. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Chairman: The Chair will now recognise the Delegate from Australia,  Mr Sheil. 

 Mr Sheil, Australia:  Mr Chairman,  we settled our differences by the toss of a coin and I won or lost depending on how you look at it. 

 Mr President, we have canvassed many areas of threat to peace this afternoon and I think that the Camp David Conference has given us a reprieve in the Middle East for some time. Now there are splits between Russia and the United States, Russia and China and Russia and Viet Nam and these do not appear to be any immediate threat to our peace. However, there is a Russian thrust into Africa using Cuban troops and that is a definite threat to peace. Indeed, more than that those surrogate Russian troops are actually fighting. I do not think we need ever fear the presence of a Russian Army in any area because they would defect, so they have to use other troops and that is what is happening in Africa. 
I have noted this afternoon the almost universal hostility towards South Africa and Rhodesia and that is the area to which I would like turn my attention now. 
It was that universal hostility that just a year ago caused me to go and visit those countries because I found it hard to believe everything I heard was true particularly, say, in the case of Rhodesia where there are only a quarter of a million whites and some six-and-a-half million blacks. I thought that if there was a huge upsurge of black consciousness, then the white problem would be very quickly solved for them. When I got there I found the situation to be vastly different. 
I must say that if I express any opinion on the subject this afternoon, it is my opinion alone as a mere Parliamentarian attending this Conference. The opinions are not representative, as you can hear, of the Australian Delegation, certainly not. (APPLAUSE) I have not expressed an opinion yet, and certainly not the opinion of the Australian Government. 
As a matter of fact, after I visited there, I went back and said to the Australian Government that we should re-assess our attitude towards South Africa and Rhodesia and I got fired from the Ministry for it. So the Australian Government is vehemently opposed to the regimes in South Africa and Rhodesia. However, I find that most of the criticisms that are heaped against those countries come from people who have not  Deen  there and people who do not know really what is happening in those countries. 
Now, in Rhodesia, I found a tremendous amount of goodwill between the blacks and the whites. I found the blacks divided into two main tribes, the Matabele in the west and the Mashona in the east  and  the Mashona outnumber the Matabele by something like 14 to 1 . It is the blacks there who cannot agree on majority right because there is hostility between the two groups of blacks. In Rhodesia I have spoken to many people. I have spoken to  Mr Ian  Smith himself and he said, 'You tell me the answer, let anybody tell mc the answer, I will do it'. All the whites are doing now is keeping the peace. 
The goodwill that exists there has to be seen to be believed, ladies and gentlemen. Similarly, when I went to South Africa I found that the situation had been misreported. 
I studied the Apartheid Policy there. All those people are immigrants to the country and they all arrived at about the same time except the Indians. The whites and the blacks did not meet for over 100 years and when they did meet, they largely avoided each other but their policy is called apartheid or separate development and it is the only policy of all parties in South Africa that promised those people selfgovernment and self-management. It is a multi-national and multi-racial problem that they are facing up to. They have a whole nation of Indians mainly at Durban, they have another nation of whites, they have nine nations of blacks. The blacks to a large extent are hostile to each other, the Zulus form the largest number of the black nations and many of the other black nations are frightened of majority rule there. 
The policy, of apartheid I found out has the four pillars of human development in it to help these people. It has human development, it has economic development, it has administrative development and it has political development. 
Voices: Shame! Shame! 
Chairman: Order. 

 Mr Sheil: I am merely reporting what I found there, ladies and gentlemen. The ridicule that we heap on these people I think is ill-deserved and you are not giving the black people in those countries sufficient credit for having helped bring themselves to a standard of living that is far better than that seen in many other countries. 
There are nations of black people in South Africa who are economically far better off than some 30 nations who are already members of the United Nations. Any one of those nations can be independent tomorrow if they so choose; many don't choose. The ones that have chosen have had their elections among themselves, all free elections, and in every case they have voted for the party that supports the apartheid policy. Bophutotswana became independent a year ago and it voted for the party which supports, despite what you have heard here today, apartheid. 
Voice: No, no, it never supported apartheid. 
President: Order. 

 Mr Sheil: Mr President, I am merely reporting, and I may be reporting badly, but these are facts that I found there. South Africa represents a microcosm of the world 's peoples, a whole spectrum from the remnants of the Hotentots and the Bushmen who have been largely exterminated like the 
Arawaks here, but there are a few of them left, up to and including the highest technical Society. It is a multi-racial and multi-national problem. A huge problem that all these people are struggling with together. 
In Rhodesia around 80 per cent of the armed forces are blacks and they are volunteers; the whites are all conscripted. The police have more blacks than whites and they are armed, so if they wanted to throw off the Smith regime, they could. If they do feel this upsurge of support for the Patriotic Front, why don't they join the Patriotic Front. Not only do they not join the Patriotic Front they fight for themselves, they are fighting for their country. There is no great call from within Rhodesia for one man, one vote, neither is there a call in South Africa for one man, one vote. The policy is to have no one people dominating any other people, no black nation dominating any other black nation in Africa and I think they are going to teach us, if we would only listen and learn, a lesson in ethnic democracy where each people run their own affairs and are not intimidated or dominated by any other people. We have alot we can learn from what has happened over there and I hope we can open our minds and listen. 
President: Is there a point of order? 

 Mr Burns: Pardon me while I make the point that the delegate spoke on his own behalf, he did not represent the majority views of the Australian delegation, neither myself or the State and Territory Delegations support him. 

 Mr Birney: I completely disassociate myself from the remarks made by  Senator Sheil.  I want to make it quite clear to you and to all the delegates here, lest there be any doubt, that this is not the policy of the Australian Government; or the Opposition and it completely condemns the policy of apartheid. 
I thank honourable senators. I told the conference that I had been to Rhodesia and South Africa and proceeded with an account of just what I found there. The conference appeared to be listening with some interest until I was attacked by my own delegation. Following that attack, the rest of the conference appeared to reject what I was saying. Australia had 12 delegates to the conferenceeight from the Australian Labor Party, two from the National Country Party, one Independent from the Northern Territory and one delegate from the Liberal Party. All except the other National Country Party member rejected my statements, despite the fact that I had dissociated any opinions I might have put forward from those held by the delegation and the Australian Government. I was pleased to hear  Senator Melzer  say that she was quite happy to have different views put at Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conferences because it is a vital part of such conferences. However, that was not quite what happened at this conference. 
The rejection of my statements was made even in spite of the fact that it was the Labor members of the Australian delegation who, at a meeting before the conference, had insisted that everybody should have the right to put their own point of view. I do not think that I put a point of view at all; I merely recited facts. Nevertheless, it was the Labor Party that insisted on that right. I think that the ability of people to speak as parliamentarians and to put their own points of view at these conferences is basic to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. If that right were ever taken away, the CPA might as well be disbanded. 
The news of what I think was really a storm in a teacup, quickly went round the world and reached Australia. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  rapidly condemned me, as did the then Acting Foreign Minister. The Prime Minister wrote a letter of apology and condemnation of me to  Mr Manley,  the Prime Minister of Jamaica, and gave him authority to publish the letter, which  Mr Manley  did.  Mr Manley  had to leave Jamaica shortly after that becausehe was going to the United Nations to receive a prize for being the world's champion antiapartheid fighter. 
All but one of the Labor members of the delegation, including the independent member from the Northern Territory, then circulated a document saying that my credentials as a delegate should be revoked. It included some other nonsense to the effect that I was using a security man as a waiter and a coat-carrier. On top of all this, the Palestine Liberation Organisation threatened my life, which was not the most pleasant experience I have ever had. Fortunately when that telephone call came in at 12.35 a.m., it was monitored throught the switchboard in the hotel. There already was quite strict security because the law of the gun rules the streets in Jamaica, but that security was strengthened and, of course, I was placed under the strictest security. I was not allowed to leave my room unless I was accompanied by a security guard. I got on quite well with those chaps. Indeed, I found out quite a few things about the sharp end of maintaining a democratic socialist state in Jamaica. I stuck the conference out and spoke in other debates without incident. I left on an undisclosed but scheduled flight which hedge-hopped round the Caribbean from Jamaica to the Bahamas to Barbados and then over to London. One point I want to make is that the day after I made my speech at least 50 black people from Third World nations came up and shook my hand. Their message to me was that I had been very brave and courageous to say what I had said and that there was a lot of hypocrisy in the world. I am inclined to agree with them. 
As  Senator Melzer  said, other important subjects were brought up at the conference and the one that I would like to mention here is the advent of the new international economic order. It was first promulgated in the United Nations in 1974 but is now gathering a real head of steam, and Australia seems to be stoking the furnace. It appears that under this new order, the Third World considers that the battle between East and West is over and that now there has to be a re-arrangement between North and South, the rich and the poor. The Third World considers that the West has virtually saturated all its markets by using, in part, the cheap labour and the cheap resources of the Third World. It believes that if the West persists in this, the gap between the rich and the poor will get wider and wider. To redress, the imbalance, the Third World is using all its muscle to effect a transfer of wealth from North to South, a transfer of technology, favourable trade arrangements, favourable tariff arrangements, a restructuring of debts and a wiping out of debts. It wants funded from a common fund an international pool of various commodities to be supplied by the richer countries. 
A new twist was added to this new order at the Commonwealth Conference and that was that we must have a new international communications order. Its proponents are talking not only about railways, roads and telephones but also about satellites and colour television. All this transferring has to be effected on terms and conditions that are acceptable to the Third World and must not be regarded as reparations, charity or settlements for past injustices, real or imagined. I welcome the report and I thank the Senate for its indulgence in letting me make this explanation. 
As a fellow Queenslander I would like to be associated with this expression of condolence to  Mrs Lawrie  and her family, as Ellis Lawrie was one of the first Federal politicians I met. As other senators have said, he was a typical country man. He was big and suntanned, he had a rolling gait and a ready laugh, and he ate with gusto, as I am sure all honourable senators would remember. I can remember the way in which he, as  President  of the Queensland Country Party, as it then was, could in his quiet and persistent way settle disputes with a refined use of just plain horse sense. I was very proud to learn from him. He paid unflagging attention to his electorate; he attended meetings everywhere. He was seen at his best at places such as Dingo, Duaringa and Anakie. I have very many fond recollections of meetings held in those places. Surprisingly in this permissive day and age,  Senator Lawrie  was a whizz in his dealings with members of the Young Country Party or the Young National Party as it is now. He was ably helped by his wife Margaret who had a great affinity with Aboriginal children and with other children. She made a particular study of the languages of Aborigines and of Islanders. He and his family made a politically active unit  in the area. I pay tribute to them for their contribution to public life. 
When I first became a member of the Senate with  Senator Lawrie  we were experiencing stirring times. One double dissolution had just taken place and we were heading for another; we had in power a reforming government and, of course, the numbers on both sides of the Senate were equal. It was unfortunate that during that time the first manifestations of his illness became evident. I pay tribute to him for his courage, his fortitude and his loyalty to the Party during that particularly difficult time for him. He always kept the good of his party in the forefront of his mind. Those honourable senators who remember the circumstances surrounding his retirement will remember that in the end it was once again his plain horse sense that allowed him to find the right answer. He was a life member of the National Country Party. It is a privilege to have known him, a privilege to have worked with him and a privilege to have learned from him. I am proud to share in this expression of condolence to his wife Margaret and the family. 

 Honourable senators having stood in their places- 

I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I hasten to say that I hope we never have a hijacking or a siege by international terrorists. Does the Government have any plan in hand to deal with such a hijacking or siege and has a chain of command been established, with proper communications between the police and the military, to deal with such an event should it occur? 
-I wish to make a contribution- I recognise that it is hurried- to the debate on the presentation of this paper by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick).  I have some observations that I hope will shed some light on the situation that exists. The whole world seems to be a tinder-box of conflicts at the moment, with the acute troubles in Indo-China, the sudden events in the Middle East and the events in Africa. The whole world is alight with a new kind of conflict that to many of us who do not want to see any kind of conflict at all appears to be quite dangerous. It appears that the big powers, when it suits their interests, can move rapidly to any part of the world and exploit differences that already exist. They have been doing this for some time. For example, having been to the People's Republic of China, I know that the Chinese are concerned about the encirclement of their country by the Russians. Because of the conflict in Vietnam and the antagonisms between the two different communist forces in Indo-China, the Russians moved in to support one side; so the Chinese moved in to support the other side in order to prevent encirclement of their country. This has created a dangerous situation, with a confrontation now between Russia and China. I hope that they are able to disengage from the confrontation. 
Another place that I have visited and studied is southern Africa, and I see a similar situation occurring there. The whole problem of the subSaharan nations hinges on land. Over the last 20 years there has been a growth of what is called African nationalism, but to describe these countries as nations is a misnomer. They are simply not nations. These countries arose as a result of a conference in Berlin about 100 years ago, when there was a race by the European powers to settle Africa. Britain, Italy, Belgium, France and Germany were involved and they held a conference in Berlin to rationalise progress. Of course, they did not ask any Africans. They set a whole lot of colonial boundaries, and those boundaries largely exist to this day. They have been the cause of most of the bloodshed that has occurred in Africa and will be the cause of most of the future bloodshed on that continent. The boundaries bear no relationship to the natural divisions of the people, to the geography of the country and to tribal or national origins. In fact they divided the black nations in no uncertain terms. Nearly all the struggles that have since taken place in Africa have been through these people trying to get together again. It has happened in the west, in Nigeria, as far east as Ethiopia, and down to South Africa and Rhodesia. The problems have been immense and they will remain immense unless the boundaries are fixed. The leaders of those new nations have agreed to an international law that the colonial boundaries should be retained. This law has been passed and it is recognised, but it will only create more and more problems because the detribalised black leaders of these artificial countries are trying to run countries which are ungovernable and which will remain ungovernable. 
It was not our fault, but our forefathers ' fault. The European thrust for Africa was the cause of this problem. As I have said, the problem will remain until the Africans are able to sort themselves out without the benefit of the politics that have been forced upon them. The detribalised leaders of these nations who have entrenched the borders will create more problems. Until those borders are altered, there will be problems in Africa. These problems do not exist in South Africa and Rhodesia where the people have been allowed to retain their nationalities, their land, their languages, their religions and their ethnic practices. We do not see these problems there. 
It is a long story and it is complicated by other factors. One of the factors I mention is the march of Islam into Africa. I think it is bigger and more important than anyone has appreciated so far. We cannot really classify the Mediterranean Africa states as part of African nationalism. They have their own nationalism towards the Arab people. Nevertheless they are still followers of lslam. The prophet Mohammed appeared around soo to 600 a.d. and did not claim any supernatural powers. But he did claim to interpret the Christian religion, or the word of God for the Arabs. He said that the Jews had their interpretation in Hebrew, the Christians had theirs in Greek but his Arab people did not have an interpretation at all. He said in effect that the Jews and the Christians had the message wrong anyway. His interpretation was found to be eminently acceptable to all those people. Islam spread right across the north of the Mediterranean, through trading, including slave-trading, down to the west and east of Africa. In nearly all the black languages in Africa the word for Moslem is the same as the word for trader. We have had Christian missionaries working in Africa for centuries, claiming many converts, but in many instances it can be said that the Africans are bread and butter Christians. They will accept help from one religion on one day and they will change to another religion if they are getting help from it on another day. In reality they are mainly followers of Islam. I see Islam as a dominant force in further events which will occur in Africa. 
Concerning Russia's intervention in Africa, Russia has not caused any of the problems in Africa, neither has China, nor Britain, although all these nations have exploited the problems which already exist when it has suited their purpose. Russia has moved into the Horn of Africa and has exploited the Somalia problem. Of course, when it did not suit Russia to exploit Somalia it moved over and supported Ethiopia. But these are all just international political plays. The basic problem will remain in Africa. I do not think we ever need fear the presence of a Russian army on foreign soil, because to my mind all the members of that army would defect. This is why I think Russia has to use surrogate troops where it wants to cause trouble, such as Cubans or East Germans. These people are creating problems now. I mention the settlement in Namibia. 
They are in their own satellites behind the Iron Curtain where they cannot get out. 
They are still all behind the Iron Curtain. In Namibia there is a huge problem. There are 1 1 nations of black people and three nations of whites, that is the Dutch, the Germans and the British. In coming to a settlement concerning self-government I think, if anything, the three nations of whites have been more difficult to deal with than the 11 nations of blacks. It is interesting to note the difference that exists between the situation in Namibia and the one that existed in Tanganyika, because they were both German protectorates. In Tanganyika- as it was then- the Germans moved in and carried out a program of pacification. They had a scorched earth policy. They wrecked the tribes, cancelled all the languages, made the people speak Swahili, killed many people, but unified the country by this process of pacification. They tried the same thing in Namibia but it did not work. President Nyerere had had a far better chance than all the other black African leaders to run a country that was at least governable. 
In South West Africa we have had this continuing problem of trying to bring together a multinational state where all people can be represented. They did not have an election recently although I note that it was called an election in the newspapers in Australia. It was a referendum to see if those peoples would agree to a constitution. They did and have now gone ahead towards forming electorates. As honourable senators know in September they will be holding their election. This they have to do in the face of the South West African People's Organisation under Sam Nujoma who is an armed terrorist leader. I hope that the peacekeeping force being placed there will be able to contain his activities so that the country can have a peaceful election. 
I am pleased that it was at the invitation of the South African Government that we have agreed to send a contingent of engineers to help in the transition arrangements towards selfgovernment in the territory. I have mentioned before in this chamber and as the old Romans said, we always see something new out of Africa. One of the things we will see over there is the first signs of ethnic democracy. I am sure we will see this occur in South Africa, and eventually, by another road, in Rhodesia. Rhodesia, of course, is coming to an election in April. One of the greatest difficulties it has had has been in being able to hold an election because of the activities of terrorists from outside the country. As I understand it at the moment Rhodesia has been made secure. They are determined to have an election. I have spoken to many of the joint Ministers there and it appears that in order to run their country, the blacks and the whites are determined to make their internal settlement work. They are determined to make their elections work. All of them are well aware of what life is like in the countries surrounding them. They know what happens when the black nations are split up and told that they belong to somebody else, such as has happened in the Congo. When the Belgians moved in there, they took over four kingdoms, told the people that they did not belong to those kingdoms and that they were now all Congolese. In the time when we all thought the Belgian Congo was a peaceful state there was a ceaseless war in which millions died. When they reached independence they immediately fractured and started to resettle themselves. We have had nothing but trouble ever since the decision about the new colonial boundary of Zaire. This applies particularly to the province of Shaba, which was formerly known as Katanga. If ever a place should be its own nation- it always had been its own nation- it is Katanga. Katanga's fight for independence has been not only ignored but also frustrated by United Nations activity. We see constant warring in Africa because of the fracturing of the tribes. 
As I see it the big powers are moving into areas where they do not belong and should not be. The problems of the people of Indo-China, Africa and even the Middle East are being aided and abetted by the foreign ambitions of the bigger powers. I am sorry to see this happening. I do not see how the situation can be ameliorated. That is a point of observation that I make from travelling round the world. I think this is the area to which we should be looking rather than looking towards the big solution from the big powers. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
1 ) What is the total amount of money which has been granted to the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners and its Family Medicine Program by the Department of Social Security since the first grants were made by the Federal Government. 
To what extent has the use of this money been audited by the Commonwealth. 
Have any cost effectiveness studies been conducted regarding the use of taxpayers' money by this College. 
What circumstances justified the initial grants of money to this particular group, and why have these expenditures been continued by the present Government. 
Have similar amounts of money been given to any other professional bodies; if so: (a) how much; and (b) over what periods of time. 

 - Mr Deputy President, my question is directed to you. It should perhaps more properly be directed to the  President  in his role as  Chairman  of the Parliamentary Library Committee. Is it a fact that the Parliamentary Library is not taking publications emanating from the Republic of South Africa. If so, for how long has that state of affairs existed? Who would be responsible for issuing such an instruction? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Since the honourable senator believes that the question should be more properly directed to the  President  of the Senate, I shall so direct it. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The situation has not altered during my term in this chamber, but I shall consider the matters that the honourable senator has raised. 
My question is more or less a supplementary question to that asked by  Senator Young  of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I welcome the Government's ameliorated attitude towards Rhodesia in the light of its forthcoming elections. I therefore ask: What arrangements have been made for the people of Australia, particularly parliamentarians, to obtain visas in order to enter Rhodesia? As I understand it, such visas are unobtainable in Australia right now, and it should be remembered that many countries will not accept a person who has a passport stamped Rhodesia'. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) What is the total amount of money which has been granted to the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners and its Family Medicine Program by the Department of Health since the first grants were made by the Federal Government. 
) To what extent has the use of this money been audited by the Commonwealth. 
Have any cost effectiveness studies been conducted regarding the use of tax-payers' money by this College. 
What circumstances justified the initial grants of money to this particular group, and why have these expenditures been continued by the present Government. 
Have similar amounts of money been given to any other professional bodies; if so: (a) how much; and (b) over what periods of time. 
I would like to add my words of support to the motion of condolence.  Sir Charles  Adermann was one of the first people I met when I joined the National Party. I appreciated his help and advice over many years. It was always well taken. I was most grateful for the association I had with him. I was very sorry to hear last night that he had had a bad turn. I was talking to his son Evan who was particularly concerned. I deeply regret his passing and support the motion of condolence. I extend my sympathy not only to Evan but also to Neville, his other son, and  Mrs Bickerton,  his daughter, and Lady Adermann, and the daughter-in-law and son-in-law. I know how proud I have been to have known Charlie Adermann and how responsive I have always been to the commitment he had to the National Party. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science and the Environment. I refer to the disease of sheep known as cheesy gland or caseous lymphadenitis. The Minister will remember that this disease had a disastrous effect on meat exports in 1 970. I wonder whether the Minister could give us some indication of the wastage that has been caused in the sheep industry because of that disease. Has the Minister any knowledge of any new advances that may lead to the eradication of this condition? 
Is the Minister representing the Foreign Minister aware that the Australian nurse, Sister Jennifer Boyd, who was murdered by terrorists in Rhodesia last year while on her rounds visiting medical clinics in the tribal trust lands, will be honoured by the Government of Rhodesia today in a ceremony at the Mercy Hospital in Melbourne where Miss Boyd received her training? Has the Minister been informed that  Mr Greg  Aplin of the Rhodesian Information Centre in Sydney will conduct the proceedings on behalf of his Government and that Miss Boyd will be made a member of the Rhodesian Order of the Legion of Merit, Civil Division, posthumously? 
I refer the Minister for Science and the Environment to the Australian drifting buoy program for the global weather experiment. Passing reference has been made in the Press recently to the Global Atmospheric Program, or GARP, and also to the First GARP Global Experiment, or FGGE. Could the Minister outline briefly the Australian program in relation to the drifting buoy segment? What does he see as the objectives of the program? When can we expect to see some results from the program? 
Honourable senators will be aware that yesterday in the House of Representatives the report of the Australian delegation to the United Nations 33rd Session and the report by the Australian delegation to observe the elections in ZimbabweRhodesia were presented to Parliament. Those reports had some pertinent things to say about events in southern Africa. Just a few hours ago the  President  of the United States of America announced that, in spite of the recent elections in Zimbabwe-Rhodesia, the United States would not recognise that country, nor would it take off the international sanctions imposed on it. 
I wish to make some observations on the current situation in Zimbabwe-Rhodesia, South West Africa-Namibia and South Africa itself. There has been some disquiet about the constitution of Zimbabwe-Rhodesia which entitled electors to vote. There have been questions raised that the white minority there still holds control of the police, the judiciary, the security forces and the public service. For the information of honourable senators, a copy of that constitution was placed in the Parliamentary Library by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  yesterday. If honourable senators peruse the constitution they will see that it is quite flexible. Power does reside in the hands of the black majority in that Parliament in that it has complete authority over the allocations of money to the armed forces and to the police. Honourable senators may find that information reassuring. 
Turning to the elections in ZimbabweRhodesia, as honourable senators know there was no register of voters in that country. Voting is not compulsory there, as is the case in many other places. Other methods were determined to ensure that as many people who were  entitled  to vote did vote, but double voting was avoided. South West Africa-Namibia and ZimbabweRhodesia have held elections which have been judged to be technically fair by the swarms of observers and reporters from international papers and agencies. None of them could find any defect that would render invalid the decision of the electorates. From our observation the reporters were basically hostile to the governments holding those elections. Similar regulations to those in force in South West Africa-Namibia and Zimbabwe-Rhodesia are used in other countries in Africa and in parts of the Third World. For example, there was no register of voters in Gabon and no register of voters in Mozambique for their  1978  elections. Further, there was no register of voters in Iran this year for the refer- endum for the establishment of the Islamic Republic. The practice of requiring electors to dip their fingers in indelible dye for identification purposes is not unusual. It is the system used in Iran, Kenya and Tanzania. The fact that regional party lists were used is not unusual. They are used in Senegal. Even in the Ivory Coast they have a national list. The fact that there are reserves or appointed seats is not unusual either, because that system is used in many countries, particularly Malawi, Sierra Leone, Zambia, Kenya and Tanzania, where 106 of the 206 seats are reserved. Of course, in Lesotho all of the seats are reserved. 
Zimbabwe-Rhodesia has now satisfied the entire six principles, laid down by successive British governments over the years, as qualifying her for independence. The problem was always one for Great Britain to decide. It still is and the sooner Great Britain can bring ZimbabweRhodesia to legality the sooner she can decolonise her in the same way as she has decolonised her other colonies over the years. In that way, less upset will be caused all of the countries of the Commonwealth. The withholding of recognition from both of these countries has been caused by the fact that the General Assembly of the United Nations, the front line states and the Organisation of African Unity have painted themselves into a corner by their support for SWAPO-the South-West African People's Organisation- and the Patriotic Front. It is because these two nationalist groups have refused to take part in elections- although invited to do so- that their backers are opposing recognition. These two external parties have not contested the elections, simply because they were not sure of winning. The publication of extracts from a recent Luanda meeting show a resolve on the part of the SWAPO, Angola, Zambia and Botswana to make unreasonable demands upon South Africa regarding the bases of SWAPO within South-West African Namibia, demands that South Africa could not possibly meet, and then blame South Africa for breaking off negotiations. 
Certain nations, including Australia, are clearly applying double standards in regard to recognition of administrations that have been established by force. I cite as an example the recognition of Pol Pot in Kampuchea in 1975, as compared with the refusal to recognise Zimbabwe-Rhodesia. While I am on that subject I remind honourable senators that when Mozambique and Angola came to independence, they had imposed upon them governments that were not subject to elections at all. In other countries, such as Saudi Arabia, the people are governed entirely without elections. In countries such as Nigeria, Jordan, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, women do not get a vote at all. It is impossible to escape the conclusion that Australia and other nations are withholding recognition, not because of a careful analysis of the merits of the case but because they do not wish to run counter to the views of the front-line states, the Organisation of African Unity, some members of the Commonwealth, and some members of the Third World- a number of which are far less democratically governed than is ZimbabweRhodesia. Any steps which encourage the forces of SWAPO and the Patriotic Front to hold out for a unilateral takeover of these countries makes their chances of success just that more likely. If that happens, the risk that the whole region will pass under the control of parties that are committed to their social backers is also more likely. I stress at this stage that in both ZimbabweRhodesia and South-West Africa racial discrimination has been eliminated in its entirety. 
I turn now to South Africa. Whatever anyone may think about the apartheid policies of the Republic of South Africa, one must concede that it has brought about many changes. So far as the South Africans are concerned, they are farreaching changes. As far as other people are concerned they may have been changes that have occurred too slowly and have not gone far enough. But the fact is that many changes have been made. The important thing is that the South African Government is getting no credit for the changes that it has made. The West and the Third World countries are making a grave mistake if they think that these changes are being made from a position of weakness. It is a bigger mistake to think that by applying more pressure they will get more changes. Unless South Africans can see that the changes are bringing some reward by way of co-operation it will be hard for the South African Government to convince the electorate that it must make further changes. It will also increase the risk of more support going to the Right wing politicians, who would put a stop to any changes occurring at all. 
It has been claimed that recognition of Zimbabwe-Rhodesia and South West AfricaNamibia, with the removal of sanctions from Zimbabwe-Rhodesia, would split the Commonwealth of Nations. Maybe it would. But in all fairness, on a cold analysis of the facts, Britain, Canada, Australia and New Zealand should give a lead to the Commonwealth and recognise those nations and remove the sanctions. By some twisted logic there are those who think that recognition would aid the aims and objectives of the Soviet Union. I mentioned previously in my speech that exactly the opposite would occur. Far from upsetting Britain, the United States, New Zealand and Canada we should be putting spurs into them to recognise and cut sanctions. Why should we all be applying sanctions when Britain, France, Canada and the Soviet Union are breaking them, and have been doing so for years? The sanctions have been a sick gesture and the sick gesture has now become a sick joke. 
What is in it for Australia, one might ask? Apart from any moral questions, I think security is important. Our trade with Europe has to go around the Cape route. If the oil artery to Europe were cut it could grind the wheels of Europe to a halt within a few months. South Africa has ports which are fully operational. She has an immense defence force; she has roads, railways, telecommunications; and above all she has people, both white and black, who are pro- West. In Southern Africa there are critical supplies of strategic minerals, and as I see it there is some urgency to see that those supplies are not added to the reserves of the Soviet Union and denied to the West. I see the security of the Indian Ocean as important, particularly with its African choke points at Gibraltar, the Suez, the Red Sea, the Gulf of Aden, Zanzibar, Mozambique and the Cape itself. 
As honourable senators will know there is an inability for the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation forces to come below the Tropic of Cancer, but there is no such restriction on the Soviet forces. Perhaps I place too much importance on the security question, but I think not. Concerning trade, Zimbabwe-Rhodesia, South Africa and probably South West Africa-Namibia would in all likelihood be competitors of Australia. To some this may appear to be an impediment but at least we have been free of that competition for some years. Nevertheless, there are great investment possibilities in those countries, as the British and American investors have found out. Tourism between us would be a boon to all. Anyone who has been there will attest to that. Sporting, artistic and cultural exchanges could be nothing but agreeable. 
In the wider sense, Zimbabwe-Rhodesia, South West Africa-Namibia and South Africa have had experience in bringing underdeveloped peoples to economic, social and political independence. These experiences should not be neglected by the rest of the world. The rest of the world has few enough successful examples but these countries have many. They have realised the paramount importance of tribalism- I stress tribalism not nationalism- to the black Africans, the importance of land to the tribes and the tragic effects for all those peoples of the entrenchment by the Organisation of African Unity of the colonial boundaries. Those colonial boundaries divided the tribes and rendered most of the sub-Sahara countries in Africa ungovernable. 
Zimbabwe-Rhodesia and South West Africa-Namibia are now destined to become independent countries with popularly elected governments, with or without the blessing of the international community. South Africa is a militarily powerful country and if necessary will fight to preserve her future. She cannot be conquered by any other country in Africa and I am sure that she would not stand idly by and watch Zimbabwe-Rhodesia and South West AfricaNamibia fall to Marxists, as happened in Mozambique and Angola. We should short circuit all this and recognise that the elections in South West Africa-Nimibia and ZimbabweRhodesia have opened the way for an association of free States working together for their security and progress. 
I ask the Minister for Science and the Environment: Is it a fact, as alleged in the article entitled 'The Great Goldfish Battle' published in the  Weekend Australian  of 1 1 and 12 August 1979, that he is introducing plans to ban imports of goldfish and some tropical fish which could wipe out the decorative aquarium industry? 
It was a most unusual occurrence to have the knocker of the north call a quorum on the whinger from the west. At least it saved honourable senators from some of that tirade of hate, greed, envy and jealousy that has been emanating from the other side of the chamber today. I understand that these are the tools of socialism, and socialism as a generator of wealth has been discredited all round the world. Yet, here Opposition senators are promulgating their policies on us. Even that Valhalla of socialism, Sweden- about which we have not heard so much lately, since the Swedes turned against socialism- is on the downhill run. The Australian Labor Party would make all of us in this egalitarian society equal and it would have us all on equal incomes. I venture to say that if we divided up all the wealth in Australia and dished it out equally to everyone at midnight tonight, by five minutes past midnight it would all be unequal again. 
I hope people are aware of the promises that the socialists make concerning Australia's wealth. This afternoon honourable senators have heard that the Labor Party would bring back gift taxes, and introduce wealth taxes, capital gains taxes, asset taxes and every other sort of tax one can think of to make us all equal. With an asset tax a person 's assets are added up every year and he is taxed on them, whether he is making a profit or not. They would certainly make us all equal; we would all be sharing misery equally. Opposition senators promise us the politics of benevolence. They want to buy votes by promising benevolence. They want high sickness and unemployment benefits, high pensions and single parent benefits and every other sort of benefit, but from Australia's experience and experience around the world it is the politics of benevolence that always backfires. If a government introduces high sickness benefits it is subsidising sickness, not health; if it has high unemployment benefits it is subsidising unemployment, not employment; and high pension benefits subsidise not wealth but poverty. So the situation goes on. When the single parent is subsidised, families are undermined. The evidence is there for us to see. It has happened in the past. But this is what the Labor Party would promise. 
I know there has been a slogan that we should do an honest day's work for an honest dollar. I am sure many people did an honest day's work but they found, particularly under the Labor Government, that the dollar was not honest; it was worth less and less every day. One could not blame people for wanting more and more of those dollars because they were worth less and less. That happened under Labor because it gave us an inflation enema that kicked inflation along. I shall say a few words about the high minimum wages that have been the result of trade union activity over the years. High minimum wages have put a lot of people out of work. There are many people who would work for less and there are people who can afford to pay less. But, people are unemployable because they cannot be paid the high minimum wages. Worse than that, they are put out of competition with the unions who are attracting the high minimum wages. I see that as a most important cause of unemployment. It is also making the gap between the rich and the poor bigger all the time. 
I see the latest assault on technology, coming both from the trade unions and the Australian Labor Party, as devastating for Australia's progress. Technology creates jobs and wealth. For example, it is said that Australia has nonrenewable resources in, coal, oil and other things. But, they are not non-renewable. Technology finds more reserves. Not only that, it teaches people how to get out reserves more efficiently and then how to use them more efficiently. It creates jobs, wealth and more reserves. While on that subject I point out that the three big inventions in the history of mankind have been fire, then the wheel and now plutonium. They are all about as dangerous as each other. I think they are wonderful servants but fearful masters. Plutonium is as big an invention as either of the other two. 
I again refer to welfare. When the Labor Party was in government it tried to make a monopoly out of welfare services. The private welfare services tended to atrophy. So, there was a whole bureaucracy of social welfare workers who needed to go out and find more clients, to tell people what their rights were as opposed to getting people off welfare, which should have been the policy. They were generating more welfare, making people become more conscious of welfare and telling them that they were entitled to these things by right. People were not allowed to accept charity because that was demeaning; it had to be their right. The word right is bandied about too freely at the moment. These things may be an entitlement; they are certainly not a right. The whole thrust of the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into poverty, which has been mentioned in this chamber today, was to give poor people more money and hope that that would solve the problem. That would not solve the problem of poverty at all. I am reminded of the old saying of Confucius: 'Give a poor man a fish and he will eat for a day; teach him to fish and he will eat forever'. The new social consciousness says that that is not good enough because that means he will eat fish forever. He is not allowed to do that. He must be given money to buy whatever he wants. Surely we could teach him to trade a few fish. That would solve his problem. 
In regard to the solutions to the problems, I return to the question of unemployment. Since government has taken over unemployment, it has been a problem. But, I think unemployment could be a very profitable business. For example, if it were handled under an insurance scheme and people could insure against unemployment, receiving good bonuses for longevity of employment, it could be an eminently profitable business. Similarly, people who suffer from chronic, catastrophic, debilitating illnesses- illnesses that are uninsurable- could be handled by lotteries. People would be happy to buy tickets in them. It would be rather like the Sydney Opera House lottery. Other things, like international sporting competitions, could be taken away from the Government and put into the hands of a lottery organisation so people could pick and choose into what they put their money. 
The cost of bureaucracy and the inquiries we have had lately to try to make bureaucracies more efficient, and the worry we have had about the growth of bureaucracy, is a difficult matter to handle. Every government seems to make a bigger and bigger bureaucracy. In the circumstances, the only theory I can think of is my own, which is that we take the head of each department, sub-department and section and offer him double his salary every time he halves the number of staff in his department. In that way, I think that we would avoid the problem of imposing staff ceilings and we would retain the best of the public servants in the Public Service. 
We could return the money to the members of the public and they could provide their own services. This is one of the problems with the Australian Labor Party. It does not think that people can think for themselves. It wants to do everything for them. The Labor Party wants government to do it all for them. The evidence stands before the Labor Party that government cannot do it all for them. In fact, government is a consumer of wealth, not a creator of wealth. The people know a lot better than the Government how to spend their money. 
No, we are not. The honourable senator has not read the Budget Speech. We want to get the money back to the people and to have less government, less tax and less government interference. I see nothing wrong with policies that make the rich richer and the poor rich. 
-This has been a considerable debate. There are some points on which we obviously all agree. We agree that the Human Rights Commission Bill is edentulous and that the amendments to the Racial Discrimination Act will emasculate it. Another thing on which I think we could all agree is that the biggest violators of human rights are governments. Apart from the intra-Australia problems we have heard about, in this regard we only have to look to our north, to Timor, to New Guinea, to Indo-China, to China itself and to Russia. A report on human rights in the Soviet Union was brought in just recently. In fact just today the Inter-Parliamentary Union brought out its report on the infringement of the human rights of politicians in several countries in Central and South America. We may look at India, at almost any country of Africa, at Romania, Iran, the Middle East and find that human rights are being violated by governments, which are the biggest infringers. We can also agree, as has been said today and as was said last week, that human rights are indivisible and should be the same for men and women, black and white, child and adult, whatever one's race, religion or social or national origin may be. There is no need for dissension on that at all. 
I have noticed that although for more than 30 years we have had the United Nations and its agencies cranking out human rights declarations and convenants they have not once actually defined the term 'rights'. Even today we have no such definition before us. At times descriptive definitions have appeared in the various declarations- as in the international covenant on civil and political rights- but there has not been an actual definition of rights. Until we arrive at such a definition I do not see how we can have human rights that apply equally to every person on earth. I would like to attempt to draw up such a definition because I believe that a right is a moral principle which dennes and sanctions the way in which we behave towards each other in a social context. If we are to define rights in that way, we may start with one that is absolutely fundamental to us all. That is the right to our life. Other rights would spring from that right, for example, the right to property and to liberty. 
All people possess rights by virtue of their nature. In other words, a right can be a claim to an action but it cannot be a claim to a thing. For example, one could not give people the right to food, to clothing, to shelter, because if a right involves forcing someone else to provide a certain thing it infringes the right of that other person. One example would be the suggested right to free medical care. Its provision would infringe the rights of someone else, who would have to provide the care and those of yet another person who would have to foot the bill. Similarly, one cannot have a right to a job because that would mean someone's having to provide the job whether he wanted to or not. He might choose not to do so. 
I am concerned particularly that under the Human Rights Commission Bill the Minister is given permission to bring forward other international instruments on human rights. There are plenty about, including those of the United Nations and its agencies; for instance, the instrument on the International Year of the Child and that of the International Labour Organisation. There is also the work of the European Human Rights Commission. Instruments could be drawn up by the Inter-Parliamentary Union or the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. In other words, the work of the Human Rights Commission could grow like a cauliflower. 
I would like to give an example. This year we have celebrated the twentieth anniversary of the International Year of the Child and of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of the Child. In regard to those rights in particular, recently I ran into trouble in trying to explain to people just what was involved in granting rights to all- in this case to children. The United Nations Declaration claims ten rights for children. They have, it claims, the right to affection, love and understanding; to adequate nutrition, medical care and free education; to full opportunity for play and recreation; to a name and nationality; to special care if handicapped; to be the first to receive relief in times of disaster; to learn to be a useful member of society; to develop individual abilities; to be brought up in a spirit of peace and universal brotherhood; and to enjoy all of those rights regardless of race, religion, colour, sex and national or social origin. No one would deny that children need all of these things, but to make them a right is a different matter altogether. 
No; the parents have a duty to provide those advantages. 
That is no answer to the problem. If one goes against nature one might as well forget the whole box and dice. Parents have the duty to provide most of these things for children; the fact that the child did not ask to be born is irrelevant. 
It is irrelevant to declare certain things to be a right. It is not irrelevant to say that a child needs these things, but it is the duty of parents to provide them. 
No; there is a big difference between a duty and a right. It is the duty of parents to provide most of these things. They should not be written into law as a right, which infringes other people's rights because they would have to provide, say, the affection, love and understanding; the nutrition, medical care and education. Having the rights to full opportunity to partake of play and recreation is also a dicey proposition. It implies that someone has to provide it. The right to a name and nationality can be granted because it does not infringe any one else's rights. The handicapped certainly need special care but it should not be a right which obliges someone else to provide it. Again, children are said to have the right to be the first to receive relief in times of disaster. I see that as infringing somebody else 's rights. 
Children are said to have the right to learn to be useful members of society. That right can be granted because it does not infringe the rights of anyone else. Again, it is said that children have the right to be brought up in a spirit of peace and universal brotherhood. I have just cited a number of nations where one cannot even find that set of circumstances. The tenth suggested right is the right to enjoy all of the foregoing rights irrespective of race, religion, colour, creed and national or social origin. That implies that all of the other proposals are to be considered rights, which is not correct, so the tenth proposition is also, in my book, not a right. 
Before I discuss the Bill I would like to consider human rights in another perspective. It is the most important subject with which a government can deal. In fact, if a government does not handle its human rights correctly it can wind up having civil wars and revolution. One has only to consider the great civil wars and revolutions of history to note that they were all fought over human rights. Britain had a blood-curdling civil war over the rights of the sovereign, the parliament and the people. It ended with the king's being beheaded. The United States of America had a war of independence which was based on the slogan 'No taxation without representation'. 
That is so. Many years later it had a civil war over human rights. France had a revolution in which the cry was for liberty, equality and fraternity. China and Russia both had revolutions which, similarly, were designed to throw off autocratic and aristocratic governments. Such momentous events should make us examine very carefully the origin, nature and implementation of human rights. 
If we fly in the face of history we will find that course disastrous. Since the beginning of time people have sought the good life, liberty and human rights. Those principles have been known about and fought over for centuries and centuries. But man has always known that those values needed qualification. As we rose above the law of the jungle and gave powers to parliament our rights were curtailed. The early Jews, Christians and Moslems valued obedience to the law, both human and divine, above individual rights. In other words, if one had privileges one knew that they carried with them certain responsibilities. Even in ancient days people recognised that citizenship of the world could dispell discord, even between hostile peoples. They even tried to establish a classless and raceless society with equality for women. All these different systems crashed into the Inchape Rock of human nature, because they needed goodwill to implement the policies that they wanted. One cannot legislate for goodwill. In other words, written constitutions did not guarantee political rights to anybody. 
As time went on we got to feudalism, where property became the obsession of the ruling classes. This was a big block to the progress of freedom. It resulted in Magna Carta, which was mentioned here. But Magna Carta was no declaration of human rights at all; Magna Carta really established the significance of charters in our legal processes. There is a copy in Kings Hall for people to read. 
Yes. The right of no taxation without representation, for example; the right of trial by jury. In fact, taxation is one of the root causes of the demand for human rights in our society today. But even after Magna Carta, it took people a long time to realise that liberty was an essential element in civilisation, and it was not until Charles I assented to the Petition of Rights that the idea of government by deliberation became feasible. The Bill of Rights was to object to enforced loans, to the enforced billeting of soldiers on the people, and wrongful arrest. But it was here that we had individual liberty ranged against the rights of Parliament and the absolute sovereignty of the King. But after that there was war and bloodshed for another 150 years, and that was not settled to any great extent until the American Declaration of Independence. 
For some time international law has been recognised as a means of determining human rights. But people found that these laws were not enforceable in the international sphere. That does not mean to say that the rights do not exist. They exist through nature, and God. The rights were recognised as a common law that was independent of parliaments. I am sure that most people in the world want to live in peace. They want to have agreeable associations with others, whatever their political or religious beliefs. But all political beliefs as well as the sacredness of treaties are meaningless without goodwill, and it is impossible to legislate for goodwill. Governments have to wrestle with opposing forces. For example, the contest between wealth and rank and intellectual vigour goes on for years. But the government of any nation must come from the social, economic and political circumstances of its own people, if they are to be truly free people. As I said before, to arrest the historical process is futile. There has to be a contract between the governor and the governed if the people are to be free, and people must have the ability to dismiss their government if it is not providing a rule that is suitable to them. But any political passion for equality wrecks any hope of freedom because natural law springs from two principles; firstly, self-preservation; and, secondly, a natural repugnance to unwarranted infliction of pain and death. People feel things. They have goodwill in their hearts: it is not in the heart of any government, and morality rarely occurs in nature. It is largely a quality of people. It is certainly not a quality of governments to any great extent that I can see, and certainly not in the international world. 
That could be so. But morality is largely a quality of human beingsnot governments, but individuals- and inequality is also brought about because people have different talents and have different wants and different needs. Laws enforcing equality merely show up different talents. The signs of inequality are four: Riches, rank, power and merit. Without these, no human development is possible at all. 
If I could come back now to the American Declaration of Independence, the undying words were written: 
. all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. 
The men who wrote those undying words were slave owners. So they saw a difference between the people that they were writing for. It was not until the American Civil War, years later, that all men were created equal and endowed with those rights, but they got them. So the people who wrote those words did not see anything inconsistent with what they were doing. 
Their sentiments were right, but they were slave owners to boot. 
Of course it is wrong. 
Yes. But the point I am making is that the men who wrote it saw nothing inconsistent with their ideas. People invent governments to do things for them that they cannot do for themselves, and the government has to be for the benefit of the people. Any government which can alter its constitution unilaterally is a government of tyranny, and I think human rights are justifiable if they are confined to the agreed amenities which the government is to provide for the people. But of course we have activist groups all around the world, and here, wanting the governments to provide more and more amenities to get money for their little neck of the woods. They trade on the gullibility of politicians, and the ambitions of bureaucrats too, and probably the apathy of the majority. 
Since the Second World War human rights have been bursting out of the United Nations without any questioning of their viability in international law, or without questioning their conflict with the sovereignty of different states. These documents are couched in terms which are almost the same as propaganda rather than common sense. There was the United States Declaration of Independence, and then its Constitution, and then the ten amendments which was actually the United States Bill of Rights. They were embodied in the Constitution as the ten amendments. Only four of those affected legal processes. This gives strength to the English law contention that the judiciary, by expounding the law, characterises it a lot more effectively than does the legislature. 
I should like to look at those ten amendments which came from the Bill of Rights. The first was for religious toleration, freedom of speech, and the right of assembly. The second was the right to bear arms. The third was the inviolability of private property in times of peace in regard to billeting. The fourth was immunity to search and seizure. Fifth was the immunity to criminal indictment except by grand jury and the right to refuse to testify against oneself. The sixth was the right to speedy public trial for criminal offences before an impartial jury and with counsel. Seventh was the right to jury trial in civil suits of more than $20. Eighth was protection from heavy fines, excessive bail, and cruel and unusual punishment. Ninth was that the rights conferred by the Constitution were not to inhibit the rights of other people. That is an important one, and I do not think that effectively that part of the Bill of Rights is used in the United States. 
Tenth and lastly, the powers that are not delegated nor by the Constitution prohibited to individual States are reserved either to those States or to the people themselves. After the American civil war those rights were extended to the Negroes and people of other races and colours. It was not until 1 920 that all those rights were extended to women in the United States of America. The rights were of a practical kind and arose from the experience of the people in the United States itself. The validity of the rights was determined by the people's interest. They were therefore subject to the will of the state. That there was a declaration obviously by no means implied that people could enjoy the rights so named. In international law individuals do not get much of a say except in the most exceptional circumstances. It is only states that are recognised in international law and if a state wants to bring an action it has to do it on behalf of an individual. I suppose that it is a convention that individuals get very little say in international law. 
Yet here we are moving to ratify international convenants and put ourselves at the mercy of being complained about by other nations and brought into international courts. The convention has been weakened by the concept of such things as crimes against humanity and that has been recognised in the Atlantic Charter. Recently created states are using the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights in their constitutions. They now contain items of novel interest like the right to marry and found a family, the right to free education and the right to free elections although very few of them can enjoy any of those things. The people who are including this Declaration in their constitutions are arguing that by some miraculous process they are somehow going to preserve world peace by legal means when actually the best method of destroying the human right is to declare its existence in a constitution. Either the declaration is so abstract as to be meaningless or its legal effect would be to impose too great a restriction on the operations of the government. For example, I cite the gun laws in the United States. On top of all that, once one defines human rights, governments maintain they are all the rights one has and that anything else is not a right. This in itself is a restriction of human rights. 
Some articles in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights are actually in conflict with laws of member countries. A particular example today is that of asylum for the Shah of Iran. He sought asylum in America. He is now being taken out of that country despite the United States asylum laws. The United Nations Universal Declaration was propounded and promulgated in 1948 and contained 30 articles, more than ever defined before. But the preamble to the Declaration requires that it promote friendly relations between nations and that it seek a common standard of achievement for all peoples to be promoted by teaching and education. The articles themselves are to be regarded as guiding principles and not laws. Many nations do not accept the Declaration. Nonetheless, the United Nations has now taken action against nations that are regarded as backsliders as though the Declaration was law. It has taken the action against nations that have signed the Charter, but not the Declaration. 
Article 55 of the Charter binds all members to the principle of equal rights, self-determination of peoples, human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, religion, sex or language. Article 56 pledges all nations to co-operate with the United Nations. The Charter says nothing about how these laws or human rights are to be implemented. Article 2 prohibits the United Nations from interfering in the domestic affairs of any nation except under Chapter 7. Chapter 7 powers may only be exercised by the Security Council in which the great powers- the United States, the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, China and France- have a veto. Of course, they have established a convention of abstaining on momentous decisions such as the imposition of sanctions. The fact that they abstain is not taken as a negative vote when in reality they are all supposed to concur when major decisions are being taken. 
Under Article 39 the Security Council will intervene only if the defiance of human rights is a threat to world peace or constitutes an act of aggression. However, the United Nations Declaration has gradually gained force and now it has some impressive teeth. It is not a treaty and, therefore, involves no legal obligations but the persistent floutings of the Declaration have changed the tempered attitude of conciliation to one of confrontation by the United Nations itself. The Charter is part of international law and the articles of the Declaration spring from it. The Declaration of Human Rights is couched in ambiguous terms partly because it was meant to be a set of guiding principles and not laws. To remedy that and to beef up human rights, the United Nations passed four other declarations and convenants. The first was the Declaration of the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples in 1 960. It resulted in the formation of the Organisation of African Unity which became a powerful force and directed international affairs for 15 or more years. It had to be considered in all international agreements on the basis of African nationalism. We know there is no such thing as African nationalism. Nationalism is not the thing in Africa, it is tribalism. 
The second was the Declaration on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination in 1963. That was directed fairly and squarely at apartheid in South Africa. The third was the Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in 1966. Again in 1966 we had this current Covenant that we are moving to ratify, the Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The United Nations' dynamic approach has been coloured by partisanship and inconsistency. For example, I consider mandatory sanctions an extreme measure to impose on any country. Where is the common understanding mentioned in Article 56? Is it fair for the United Nations to expect cultural transformations in people overnight when it has taken centures in other countries to achieve these changes? For example, women are not allowed to vote in Nigeria, Jordan and Kuwait. Saudi Arabia governs without any elections at all. The United Nations gives some attention to over-population, food production, pollution, poverty and unemployment but not much is heard of these now; most of the international conferences on them failed. The emphasis now is on armaments, political and human rights and material assistance given to terrorists in the guise of liberators. With the full knowledge of the United Nations, terrorists are trained in member states. I think that that is contrary to the whole spirit of the Charter. The entire problem is bedevilled by the fate of various minorities in Europe, Asia, Latin America and Africa. Whatever happened to the pigmies? Has anyone wondered about them or the Masai? 
1 think it is the decline in the democratic systems that has been the most momentous event in our time and the clamour for voting rights is not going to stop that. In view of the time I had better move on. Turning to the Bill itself, I will summarise what we have rights to. We have a right to our life. We have a right to anything we have earned and paid for. We have a right to anything that is freely given to us. Then we have a right to certain things that the Government vouchsafes us. There are certain ways by which governments can give us rights. We can have them in the socialist way, as people do in the Soviet Union where the Government has given people the right to think their own thoughts, to meet, to work- all sorts of things. Just as in this Convenant, their Government has confined the right by saying that they have the right to those things provided they do not break any law. Their Government can then pass laws to effectively rob them of those rights. If honourable senators believe the people there can think their own thoughts without the Government knowing, they are wrong. The Government can tell from what a person reads, who he talks to, what shows he sees. If it thinks a person has subversive thoughts, that person can be gaoled. 
That is in Russia. There one is given the right to work provided one does not break any law. If one goes on strike one is infringing someone else's right to work and can go to gaol for that. That is the socialist way. That is what is in this Covenant. All over we have heard complaints that each one of these rights is controlled by provisos. On the other hand, the United States of America entrenched a Bill of Rights into its Constitution. It said that no law shall be passed to infringe those rights. Of course, everyone takes the fifth amendment, gun law rules the streets and the country is bound down by endless litigation. Australia is a common law country. We make up and expose our laws as we go. I think that that is the best system for Australia despite any shortcomings it has. In dealing with this Bill we are discussing another system. An international body has created a whole lot of human rights and has then imposed them on a country that is a signatory to its charter. In other words, we have an international body determining what laws we shall pass in our country. 
The reason for the introduction of the Bill is merely that the Executive of the Government made a promise. It is one of the promises that it is not going to break. It wants to improve its image in the world, to be a leader, to show that Australia is aware of human rights. It wants to maintain that position. A conference will be held next July in Luxembourg and I am sure that it will be announced there that we are moving right along with this human rights legislation. My main objection to this Bill is that an outside agency is determining the laws to be passed in this country. All the definitions of the rights that are in this Covenant are qualified by the proviso that one does not break any law. The Bill is unnecessary. This is virtually conceded by the Government. I quote from a document entitled Short Digest of Bill '. It states: 
This course of action is partly as a  reult  of severe constitutional question marks over the Federal Government's powers to legislate to protect and enforce human rights as well as the Government's belief that the guaranteeing of these rights does not require a Bill of Rights and the accompanying judicial powers of enforcement, believing instead that the present law adequately protects these rights and that Parliament is the more  appropriate  body to ensure the continued protection of these rights. 
That protection is in the Bill. I think that this Bill represents an extension of the colonial type government that we had. We then moved to cooperative federalism. Now we are moving to coercive federalism. After 1 5 months of negotiation the States have not agreed in any substantial way to this Human Rights Commission. The weakness of it has been pointed out in debate here. As I have said, the work of the Commission is designed to grow. Another thing I do not like about it is that the officers who are to administer this law and their papers are to be removed outside our processes of law. In effect we would have an international body determining what the laws in the country are to be and the officers removed from our own legal processes. 
-It is in the Bill. I am afraid I must hurry along,  Senator. The  fact that any international instrument can be incorporated is, I think, a danger. To conclude, some honourable senators see this Bill as the sunrise of enlightenment in the country so long as it gets some teeth. Other honourable senators support a sunset for the legislation. For me, tomorrow evening will be soon enough for that sunset. 
My quesion is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to claims by the Australian Labor Party in the Queensland Parliament that the Iwasaki Sangyo Co. (Aust.) Pty Ltd has been diverting money to purposes other than development of the Yeppoon tourist resort? Could the Minister inform the Senate of the latest situation in relation to  Mr Iwasaki  's Yeppoon proposal? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Education, concerns school buildings. Can the Minister comment on claims that the Government is neglecting the funding of capital works in government schools while at the same time increasing funds for non-government schools? What is the true picture of Commonwealth Government support for government school buildings? 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
Leave granted. 
I thank honourable senators for giving me leave. It has come to my notice through radio and newspaper reports today that last night it was alleged in the Queensland Parliament that I had some implied commercial association with certain drug runners in north Queensland. The allegations, which were made under parliamentary privilege, are scurrilous, defamatory and damaging. The allegations have no basis in fact and I deny them. I deny any knowledge of ever having met the gentleman who was mentioned in them. Now that the allegations have been made, I am grateful to the Queensland Government for having extended the commission of the royal commissioner,  Mr Justice  Williams, to clear my name and also to expose the base nature of the honourable members of the Queensland Parliament who made the allegations. 
