The long drawn out negotiation has not been without its difficulties, but there are now encouraging signs. I am fairly confident that an agreement will be reached. However, I would like to qualify that comment by saying that I have said this before. At the meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council in Sydney in February it was agreed that the officers of State departments involved in this matter would get together in Canberra on 12th February to discuss the difficulties that the States saw in the scheme and to unravel some of the misunderstanding that had arisen. The Prime Minister contacted the Premiers and the meeting was arranged and held. Much good came out of the meeting and at the moment the matter is in the hands of the State governments for them to iron out some of the minor areas of disagreement that still exist. I would like to point out, however, that we drew up a draft document of agreement with Western Australia so that it could implement the scheme. This document was then circulated to the other States and it is being examined by the various State officers at the moment. I hope that in the very near future the difficulties will be ironed out to the satisfaction of all parties. 
Anybody who has been associated with the expansion that has taken place in the wheat industry in the past 5 years must be well aware that wheat growers were heading for very serious trouble unless they expanded their market outlets. This situation became very obvious to the Australian Wheat Growers Federation, which is the supreme body of wheat growers in Australia. Facing up to the enormous problems, which were almost impossible to resolve, the Federation decided on a quota proposal, which needed the backing of the Commonwealth for financing the first advance and which needed the support of all State governments for implementation. The fundamental purpose of the quota proposal was to try to protect the traditional wheat growers and the small wheat growers who did not cause this problem and who had not expanded their production to a great extent during the past 5 years. The way in which the quota system is administered is a matter entirely for the States. The actual determination of quotas, and the method used, varies from State to State. I will not allow anybody to interpret a quota scheme as being against the small grower and the traditional grower. The objective is to protect those people. 
The first thing I want to say in reply to the honourable member for Moore is that before the Bureau of Agricultural Economics could make any investigation of an industry on a State basis a request would normally come from the State government concerned and, before I would consider such an investigation it would certainly need to have the support of the wheat industry in that State. The inference in the question is that there should not be any reduction in the quotas. I think one must face the fact that there is a major problem in the wheat industry. We are producing too much wheat and now we have the problem of storing it and of wheat growers having to pay for that storage. The Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, with great courage and with a great degree of responsibility, is facing up to this problem. It realises that production must be cut back still further and that that must be done in an orderly manner. To try to subvert the present quota arrangements that have been arrivedat by the Australian wheat industry would do nothing but throw the whole wheat industry into absolute chaos. There must be some restraint. It is up to everybody to give encouragement and strength to the leaders of that industry who have undertaken such a responsible job. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a second  time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase the maximum rate of charge that can be imposed under the Dried Fruits Export Charges Act 1924-1965 so that an operative rate of charge higher than the present maximum can subsequently be introduced by regulation. Under the Act a maximum charge of 0.1c per lb can be imposed on all dried fruits - currants, sultanas and raisins - exported from the Commonwealth. This charge is the major income source of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board, the statutory authority which controls the export, and the sale and distribution after export of Australian dried fruits. 
The charge was first introduced under the Act in 1924 and the maximum rate has remained unaltered up to the present time. Under regulation, the Board operated on rates of charge lower than the maximum until 1964, when, on its recommendation, the operative rate was set at 0.1c per lb, which is the maximum permitted by the Act. In recent years, however, it has become apparent that the income derived from the existing charge is insufficient to allow the Board to operate effectively under present: conditions. Over the last 3 years its expenditure has exceeded income, resulting in a continual reduction in accumulated reserve funds. 
The Board's financial . problems were aggravated in 1969 when adverse seasonal conditions reduced the supply of exportable fruit to the lowest level in almost 20 years.. This confronted the Board with the prospect of funds sufficient for only administrative purposes. Probably the most serious effect of the Board's money shortage is in the field of export promotion. The reduced 1969 income has meant a curtailment of the budget for this activity and uncertainty as to the amount the Board can make available for future expenditure through the Overseas Trade Publicity Committee. 
This Bill raises the maximum rate of charge from 0.1c per. lb to 0.3c per lb and retains the provision for a lower operative rate of charge to be set by regulation. It is intended to set the operative rate for the 1970 season at a lower rate of 0.2c per lb. This or any subsequent rates imposed within the limits set by the new maximum charge should enable the Board to replenish reserves to meet any future losses in income arising in seasons of low production and to plan for a positive programme of export promotion. 
These proposals have been recommended by the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board which is comprised of members representing both grower and marketing interests. I am confident that the dried fruit industry as a whole can regard this and any subsequent recommendations concerning the level of operative rates of charge as being designed to provide the most effective basis for export marketing of dried fruit. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That  the  Bill be  now read a second  time. 
The basic purpose of this Bill is- to obtain the approval of Parliament to an agreement made between the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments to regulate the production and marketing of sugar within the Commonwealth for a period of 5 years from 1st July 1969. 
On 25th September of last year the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  made a statement in the- Parliament that the negotiations between the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments for a new Sugar Agreement had been satisfactorily concluded and the basis on which a formal agreement could be drafted had been arranged. The Bill now before honourable members contains the text of the Agreement as subsequently concurred in by the Governments, and provisions to implement the Commonwealth's responsibilities under the Agreement. 
The previous Sugar Agreement, the Sugar Agreement 1962, as varied by the Supplemental Sugar Agreement 1967, had been due to expire on 31st August 1968, but the two Governments agreed, by exchanges of letters, to the extension of its term of operation until 23rd October 1969, the clay the Sugar Agreement 1969 was' made. A significant reason for extending the term of the 1962 Agreement - which originally had been due to expire on 3 1st August 1967 - was the desire to continue that Agreement until the outcome of the negotiations for a new International Sugar Agreement was known. As honourable members are well aware a new International Sugar Agreement was achieved late in 1968 but only after protracted and difficult negotiations. When the Sugar Agreement 1969 was finally executed its terms provided for its retrospective operation from 1st July 1969. Previously the traditional starting date of Sugar Agreements had been 1st September but the change in commencing date on this occasion was made for reasons of administration. 
In the course of his statement to the Parliament which I have referred to above, the Prime Minister outlined the principal features of the new Agreement. In view of the importance of the Agreement I would like to touch briefly on some of those features again. The new Agreement which is the latest in a long line of Agreements which go back to the 1920s is, in substance, along similar lines to the Agreement it replaces. In this connection I quote verbatim what the Prime Minister said in the Parliament in September. He said: 
Experience in operating the provisions of the existing Agreement, since the last major review in 1962, has indicated that some changes can make it more effective hi its operation and clearer in ils expression. During the drafting of the new Agreement the opportunity will be taken to effect these adjustments, which are largely of a technical or drafting nature and will have no bearing on .the principles on which the Agreement is based. This, as previously indicated,- will follow the traditional lines Of previous Agreements. 
The text of the 1969 Agreement as subscribed to subsequently by the two Governments and as now contained in the Bill before honourable members is consistent with what the Prime Minister said. For example, under trie new Agreement, which will run for S years, the State of Queensland, on the one hand, will continue to control the production of raw sugar, and will make available, as a matter of priority and at stated maximum wholesale prices, refined sugar and sugar products to meet Australian needs. The Commonwealth of Australia, on the other hand, will continue its embargo on the importation of sugar and of the sugar products, golden syrup and treacle. The maximum domestic wholesale prices for sugar and sugar products as were, prescribed in the Supplemental Sugar Agreement 1967 have been continued under the new Agreement. 
Features of previous Sugar Agreements have been the domestic sugar rebate scheme and the export sugar rebate arrangements. Both of these features will be continued under the new Agreement. The objectives in the case of both rebates include that of assisting, by stabilising fruit prices, growers of fruits used in manufactured products. Manufacturers who purchase fruit at prices not less than those declared annually by the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee, established under the Agreement, are entitled to the domestic sugar rebate on the sugar used in conjunction with the fruit. 
Under the export sugar rebate arrangements exporters of products containing sugar obtain their requirements of such sugar at prices related broadly to the Australian import parity price. In short they pay what they would have paid had there been no embargo on the importation of sugar. In the case of domestic sugar rebate the rate has been increased by S5 to $15- per ton from 1st July 1969. This will make the rebate more significant to manufacturers. The higher rate of rebate represents the only major difference between the old and the new Agreements. To provide funds to pay the rebate at the higher rate- the Stale of Queensland will increase its contribution from the level under the previous Agreement to a new level of $924,000  x  year. 
So far I have been speaking almost entirely about the Sugar Agreement 1969 which comprises the Schedule to the Bill. lt is now appropriate to turn to the clauses of the Bill itself. The Bill is similar to previous Acts in that it continues the Commonwealth's obligation under the Sugar Agreement to prohibit the importation of sugar, golden syrup and treacle. 
In addition the Bill 'approves' the new Sugar Agreement as did previous Acts in respect of Sugar Agreements which were new at the time. In this connection I would remind honourable members that it was not possible to bring the new Sugar Agreement before the Parliament when it was made by the two governments. Accordingly, and since it was agreed by both the Commonwealth and the State of Queensland that it was in the interests of both producers and consumers that the Agreement should be brought into operation as soon as possible, it was decided that the Agreement should come into full force and effect upon ils signing in order that the benefits under it could commence to flow without delay. 
Clause 6 of the Bill does not have an equivalent in earlier Sugar Agreement legislation. It is a machinery clause to place beyond doubt the position of interest or other income derived from the investment of moneys which belong to the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee and which are placed to the credit of the Commonwealth Trust Fund. Clause 6 is intended to ensure that the interest or income will flow to the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee Fund to which it rightly belongs. 
The Sugar Agreement Bill 1970 advances further the story of co-operation between the Queensland and Commonwealth Governments in the field of sugar, which has fostered the development of the sugar industry, and at the same time has ensured full and stable supplies of sugar at reasonable prices for Australian consumers. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member is completely out of order. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is intended to amend the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act in two respects. It will complement legislative action by the States: first, to implement a quota scheme for wheat deliveries; and, second, to give discretionary authority to the Australian Wheat Board to sell wheat in Australia for purposes other than human consumption at prices tower than the price for human consumption. 
The 1968 Act made provision for the fifth consecutive 5 year stabilisation plan for the wheat industry. In the first season of the plan, 1968-69, production exceeded 540 million bushels and the unprecedented quantity of 515 million bushels was delivered to the Australian Wheat Board. The build-up of stocks and the prospect of further large supplies at a time when world trade in wheat had suffered a serious decline from the record level of 1965-66 meant that the industry was confronted with storage and marketing problems such as had never before been encountered. Industry leaders were not slow to see that these problems would be compounded unless some positive remedial action were taken without delay. Their reaction was courageous and responsible. They proposed, and obtained the backing of the industry for, regulation of deliveries to the Wheat Board by a system of quotas. 
The State governments accepted the industry proposals. With the exception of Queensland each brought down enabling legislation in 1969. In Queensland a severe drought cut wheat production so badly that little more than one-third of its proposed quota was delivered to the Wheat Board. There was therefore less urgency about enacting legislation but I understand that it will be introduced this month. 
The 1968 Act envisaged that the Wheat Board would continue to operate its accounts on a pool basis with all the wheat delivered in any one season being wheat of that season's pool1. This Bill will enable the Board to operate on a quota pool basis. In the 1969-70 season, for example, wheat delivered in excess of this quota will be become part of the quota pool. Wheat delivered in excess of his quota will be received as over-quota wheat. It will not be taken into the 1969-70 pool unless, and to the extent that, it is sold and paid for in full during the season. 
This Bil'l does not provide for the allocation of quotas. That is a matter for State legislation. It does contain provisions in respect of deliveries in the Australian Capital Territory, the intention being to ensure that the purpose of the quotas in a State may not be defeated by delivery of wheat grown in a State to a licensed receiver in the Australian Capital Territory. This 
Bill recognises that costs incurred in the implementation and administration of quotas should be borne by the industry as a charge against the relevant quota pool. The quota provisions of the Bill are intended to be effective from the beginning of the current season, that is, 1st October 1969. 
Turning to the price provisions of the Bill, the change proposed is as a result of a further recommendation by the Australian Wheat Growers' Federation. The 1968 Act provided for a home consumption price to apply to all domestic sales of wheat whether as stockfeed or for products for human consumption or for industrial use. It is the prerogative of each State to fix the price for sales within its boundaries. The Commonwealth legislation in this respect is effective only in so far as sales in a Territory of the Commonwealth are concerned. 
In September 1969 the Federation asked that the price provisions of the complementary legislation be altered to give the Wheat Board discretionary authority to sell wheat for stockfeed and industrial uses at a price below the going home consumption price of $1.71. per bushel for f.a.q. wheat in bulk f.o.r. ports, but not less than the equivalent of the guaranteed price which for that season was $1.45 per bushel for f.a.q. wheat f.o.b. With changes in the price levels and in the freight to Tasmania loading the limits for this season are $1,725 and $1,435 per bushel f.o.r. ports basis. Each of the States enacted legislation to put the changes into effect in November-December 1969. This Bill would make the Commonwealth legislation consonant with that of the States. 
The home consumption price of wheat has long been tied to a cost of production concept. In earlier years of stabilisation it was well below going export prices. For some years now it has been above the level of export prices. The industry's decision to seek this departure from a basic feature of its stabilisation arrangements was not taken lightly. It reflects a realistic appreciation of the marketing situation which has developed. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now  read a  second time. 
This Bill provides for the raising of loan moneys amounting to $4,500,000 for war service land settlement in the States of Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania during the 1969-70 financial year. As honourable members are aware the Commonwealth is responsible for the provision of the whole of the capital moneys required for the war service land settlement scheme in those three States. It is anticipated the money will be made available in the following approximate amounts: Western Australia, $1,900,000; South Australia, $1,946,000; and Tasmania, $654,000. 
Just over $4m of this money is needed to meet the requirements of settlers for working expenses and for stock, plant and, where necessary, the replacement of plant purchased previously. This $4m is expected to be matched by the receipts for repayment of advances made to settlers during earlier years of the scheme. These repayments are, of course, paid to the credit of the Consolidated Revenue Fund. 
Honourable members will recall that one of the basic principles of the scheme was the concept that lack of capital was not to debar an otherwise eligible ex-serviceman from participating in war service land settlement. In fact, most settlers have borrowed their full financial requirements from the settlement authorities. The authorities for their part accepted a charge over the assets concerned as security for the money advanced. Many settlers, particularly those allotted farms in the more recent years, have as yet been unable to improve their financial position to the stage where they can operate without further borrowing. Since they are generally not in a position to offer acceptable security to banks, stock firms or other lending institutions, they still need to have recourse to credit from within the scheme. About $490,000 of the $4,500,000 will be needed for development work mainly on block drainage of irrigated holdings at Loxton and Cooltong in South Australia and for limited farm reconstruction work on some farms created from large-scale developmental projects where those farms have not achieved the level of productivity desired under the scheme. 
A small sum will be charged under the heading of 'acquisition', being costs associated with perfecting the titles of lands already paid for and developed, or payments required as a result of minor changes in area found on survey. 1 commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
 Before the House today is an urgency motion by the Opposition accusing the Government of giving insufficient leadership in the implementation of important policy matters dealing with rural industries. The first  speaker  we heard was the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  He gave us a somewhat more spirited speech than we had from him in the last Parliament. We all look forward to this sort of performance. The substance of the speech, when analysed, was a little pathetic. In fact it was so diffuse that the Government was attacked on the one hand for giving leadership in some directions and on the other hand, for not giving it in other directions. The argument fell to the ground without any real substance to it. The whole urgency motion was a little sad. It seemed to be more a demonstration of who is going to give leadership in the Australian Labor Party on agricultural policy - Tweedledum or Tweedledee. 
In the list of speakers for today were some men whose remarks I appreciate and for whom I have a high regard, such as the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  and the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen).  I think it is a pity that they were passed over to allow the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  to speak in their place. It is quite obvious that in future the Labor Party is going to ignore men who. have been in this House of a number of years and who have something of substance to say. The honourable member for Dawson is a man who normally has something of substance to say, and I have a high regard for the thought that he puts into his speeches, but always there are overtones of the Labor Party's doctrinaire policies. I doubt very much if he will be able to make a very great impact on the rural leaders and the rural industries of Australia. After seeing the performance by the honourable member for Riverina at Jerilderie last week, and the calamity howling that went on and the cool reception he received from rural leaders there, 1 doubt whether he will make very much impact either. 
Rural industries have had a remarkable performance over the past .decade. They have met in a fantastic way the challenges of increasing costs, of difficult marketing and of keeping up with technological advances. Production has gone up. Their efficiency has increased. It is remarkable that while the Labor Party comes here and claims that it can do a better job, it puts up no constructive proposations whatsoever. 1 think it is remarkable also that, even though the Labor Party has been in office for only 9 years over the past 50 years, its performance in dealing with agricultural affairs has left an indelible impression on every agricultural producer in this country. Agricultural producers have been appalled at the doctrinaire philosophies which the Labor Party has adopted every time it has been in office, of knowing what is best for them, of telling them what they should produce, how they should produce it and what price they ought to get for it. This is why the Labor Party has been rejected by the agricultural sector time and time again. 
The Government has a splendid record of giving leadership. For a few minutes this afternoon I want to run through some of the things it has done. I want to mention that they have been done against a background of almost unprecedented difficulties in the marketing of Australian commodities and at a time when surplus production has never been as great as it is today. There is also the problem of meeting unfair competition in the various markets of the world by the dumping policies and the highly supported agricultural policies of the developed countries. The Government has managed to cope with these. It will work jointly with the rural industries and their organisations in implementing policies and will not venture into the doctrinaire field that I mentioned, of telling the industries what to produce. By negotiating, consulting and arriving at agreement the Government will bring down legislation to make that possible, as it has done and is continually doing with all types of industries. 
There have been difficulties with drought. The Government has come to the forefront by giving assistance of almost SI 00m over the past 3 years. It has come forward with a new, positive programme to assist with water conservation, and this will entail another $100m in the next 5 years. In the field of marketing the Government has assisted in implementing policies of orderly price arrangements within Australia for wheat, butter, cheese, sugar, dried vine fruits and canned fruits. Enormous and highly sophisticated systems of joint government and industry efforts have been developed to explore and exploit new markets overseas, through the Department of Trade and Industry and the Trade Commissioner Service. All forms of taxation incentives have been granted to make this possible. As a Government we have been at the forefront of international negotiations to bring about the great International Sugar Agreement which has given stability to an industry that did not know where its future lay. 
We have been at the forefront of the International Grains Arrangement which has ended the absolute chaos in the marketing of grain. We have been at the forefront of all the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade discussions dealing with agricultural commodities. The latest commodity on which we have been able to get agreement on price is skim milk powder. This means that the ruling world price will go up by S3 1 a ton from now on. We have been at the forefront of negotiations with the United States of America for access to that market, thus giving the Australian meat industry the most buoyant period and the highest prices it has ever known. We have been at the forefront in seeing that the abattoirs are up to the required standard to meet the hygiene and sanitary requirements for the American market. We have been at the forefront in opening up markets for our meat products in other parts of the world. 
The Government has done an enormous amount to make finance available to farmers so that they can keep abreast of all the latest developments taking place in agriculture and so that they get the credit capacity to purchase and to use the equipment that is coming forward. The carry-on finance available to rural industries is gigantic. In the past 2 years the wheat industry has received credits from the rural credits section of S615m in the first year, and this year it has been provided with up to S444m, of which about $4C0m will bc taken up. There is provision for next season's crop for credit of up to $407m. 
Through the rural credits section we are providing $137m for the dairy industry this year. These gigantic amounts of money are being provided so that farmers across the country will be able to continue to operate on a sound basis. New arrangements are being provided for the wool industry. The wool marketing proposals require large sums of money. For the 60% advance that the wool marketing scheme will need $30m to S40m will be made available, plus another Si 4m for buying carry over stocks. Indirect assistance also is of a proportion never before reached by any government in Australia. This year more than $180m will go towards helping rural industries in all sorts of ways. Money has come direct from the Treasury - taxpayers' money - to help farmers through these difficult periods. 
The Government has adopted many measures, such as the doubling of the superphosphate bounty in the last 2 years, new amendments to our taxation laws providing probate concessions for rural producers and credit facilities made available in the private banking sector over the last 5 or 6 years. These are enormous in their dimensions. The Term Loan Development Fund since it was formed in .1962 has had its resources increased to S372m, the Farm Development Loan Fund at last July had S67m outstanding to farmers on preferential terms and more attractive terms than they can get from normal financial resources, and the Commonwealth Development Bank, which was created in 1960, has lent $257m. Is this the attitude of a stingy, unsympathetic government in providing finance to rural producers? Of course it is not. Yet Opposition members attack the Government for the indebtedness of rural industries. They cannot have it both ways. They must say either that we are not providing enough or we are providing too much money. The fact of the matter is that farmers across this country have been given access to money so that they can keep up with the latest technological developments. 
We have introduced stabilisation schemes. Even in the last year we have introduced a new wheat stabilisation scheme. The Opposition attacked it and said it was no good, but the facts are that, because of the decline in world prices, it looks as though we will be paying $30m or $40m in this year, the first year of the scheme, when it was expected that we might have to pay only S2m or $4m. A new sugar agreement has been concluded between the Commonwealth and Queensland governments. It will ensure control of production, a domestic price arrangement and a rebate system that will enable fruit to be delivered to canneries at reasonable prices. We have brought forward a dried vine fruits stabilisation scheme. A poll relating to the scheme is being conducted at the moment. Before long I hope that the House will consider an apple stabilisation scheme. 
We have seen a tremendous development in research programmes. Almost every sector of agricultural industry has some joint Commonwealth and industry research scheme. New ones have been introduced in the last 12 months. One dealing with the fishing industry will require funds of Sim a year. Within the last 6 months we have brought in a chicken meat industry research fund. We have expanded research in the wool industry. We are now considering a research scheme for the pig industry and I hope it will not be too long before it is introduced. We have proposed a farm amalgamation scheme for marginal dairy farms. Some people have turned this into an opportunity to criticise the Government and myself for being unsympathetic to small farmers. How ridiculous that is. The whole objective of the scheme is to help the small farmers in their predicament. We are also carrying out a survey of the structure of other rural industries so that we can discover the appropriate way to help them if any restructuring is necessary. 
But what do we get from the Australian Labor Party? All we have are speeches of panic and gloom. Opposition members think they can obtain some political advantage, that they can capitalise on the adversity of farmers. This is about the cheapest form of demagoguery that there is, but some Opposition members make a practice of it. The Government has taken positive action in the wool industry. Decisions to provide an additional $20m a year to the wool industry have been taken in the last 6 months. We have provided money for marketing, money for research and money for promotion. We have implemented the recommendations of the Australian Wool Industry Conference for a wool marketing proposal. This is the first time that a wool marketing proposal has been implemented in this country. That has been done in the last 6 months. But what wool policies does Labor have? During the last session we had the rather comical spectacle of Labor coming out with 3 different policies on 3 different days. The official policy prepared for the election last year was withdrawn. Labor spent a lot of money on a publication explaining its policy, but we never saw it. We have the arrogance of Labor on the export of merino sheep. These recommendations came from the industry, but now, because Labor does not like what is happening, it incites the trade unions to run this country and to go against the decisions of the Government. All I can say is that it is a shameful performance for any honourable member elected to this Parliament, to incite trade unions to act against decisions of the Government. 
Over the past 2 years, the American prices for manufacturing types of meat particularly have been so buoyant that, to avoid oversupplying the market there and having to curtail exports during part of the year, the Australian Meat Board recommended the diversification scheme. This recommendation was supported by the Government. The diversification scheme sought to regulate the supply of meat and also to give encouragement to exporters to look for other markets. Unfortunately, we are still in the experimental stages of making this regulation work successfully. Last year, we had the unfortunate circumstances of having to curtail exports about August, which did have its repercussions, particularly in the electorate that the honourable member represents where cattle are fattened towards the end of the year and if producers cannot get the same sales in America at that time the tendency is for the price to be depressed. 
However, the Australian Meat Board has announced this year that the ratio between exports to the United States market and non-United States markets will be tighter because, on the present indications, if we allowed exports to run freely we would need to cut them off early. Futhermore, the Meat Board is improving its statistical information from both the producers and the exporters so that it has a better indication of what the supply of meat is that will be coming forward and is likely to be exported. 
Thirdly, every exporter will have to inform the Meat Board, on a monthly basis, as to the amount of meat that is going to the American market. If this proposed export represents a debt against the diversification ratio, the exporter will not be allowed to export it. Further, 1 wish to inform the honourable member that, as from 1st June of this year, no exporter will be allowed to export to the United States market without the approval of the Australian Meat Board for each shipment. 
As the honourable member would be aware, I did meet a deputation of northern meatworks representatives and producers. We discussed what they considered to be the inequities of the present diversification arrangements because the meatworks in the Kimberleys region and the Northern Territory did not have the same degree of flexibility as other meatworks around Australia. They did not have access to the domestic market for sales, they were limited by the shipping arrangements, and basically they produced a type of meat that was of a manufacturing nature which was mainly available for sale to the attractive American market. Having been told this I suggested that they ought to make a submission to the Meat Industry Conference on Diversification, which consists of the Australian Meat Board and exporters. They made such a submission and the Conference then decided to set up a sub-committee to investigate the matter. The sub-committee has reported to the Conference and I believe the Conference met in Sydney yesterday to look at this whole matter and to make recommendations to the Board. But I would like to say to the honourable member for the Northern Territory that I hope some consideration can be given to these northern meatworks. I believe that there is a degree of inequity and if some suggested amendment is not made by the Conference I will have to take action. 
It is becoming the practice of meat importing countries to demand higher and higher standards in killing works. They are sending out their own veterinarians to inspect meat works in various countries. Only yesterday I read reports that a number of abattoirs in New Zealand had been refused permission to continue to export meat to the United States market. The West German veterinarians who are in the country at the moment are not only inspecting the standard of abattoirs but also selecting abattoirs that might kill according to the procedures that they desire for the importation of meat into the West German market. I am aware that they have been in the honourable member's area. I understand that they have inspected the Gunnedah abattoir, as it is of very high standard. I hope that their inspections will lead to trade with West Germany and increased sales to that part of the world. 
There is no truth in the statement that wheat is to be destroyed in Canada and thus my officers will not be looking at such a proposal. I think it is unfortunate that publicity was given to this suggestion and I have had various newspapers correct it. What was announced was  that the Canadian Government would try to reduce the very heavy stockpiles in that country. In fact the extent of the problem of the wheat industry in Canada almost dwarfs the very serious problem in Australia. The latest estimate for July of this year puts Canada's stock holdings at about 950 million bushels, which is an all time record and about 150 million bushels more than that held by even the United States of America. The Canadian Government proposes to offer an inducement to farmers to leave their wheat land fallow by paying them $6 an acre for land that is not used. In addition anybody who diversifies and uses his wheat land as permanent pasture for grazing purposes will receive SIO an acre. 
When one considers these new measures against what was operating in Canada to try to curb production one realises that it is a very serious step that has been taken. In Canada they have a system whereby every grain grower is given a permit book which entitles him to a basic quota of 100 units, the equivalent of 400 bushels of wheat or a corresponding amount of barley, oats and rye. But on top of that the permit also enables every wheat grower to deliver so many bushels per acre. For the year 1968-69 the figure was 6 bushels per acre. I believe it is to be reduced in 1969-70 to 4 bushels per acre. That does not mean that that will be the actual area of wheat grown, but it is certainly the number of crop acres that applies to a farm. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows 
The State quotas for wheat for the 1969-70 harvest were proposed by the industry itself through the Australian Wheat Growers' Federation. They had the backing of industry organisations in all States including, in the case of Western Australia, the Farmers' Union. 
The quotas were intended and designed to cope with unprecedented problems of marketing and storage and to avoid a worsening of the situation which, if unchecked, would have led to widespread hardship in the industry. 
As far as Western Australia is concerned the quota of 86 million bushels has been exceeded by deliveries in only four seasons. In fact prior to 1965-66 the largest quantity delivered had been 67 million bushels. 
The allocation of quotas to producers is a matter for State authorities. I do not have information on individual quotas. 
(3) and (4) See (1) above. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Wheat Board has informed me that buyers of medium protein hard wheats invariably seek a minimum of 12% protein level; and that hard wheats below that level virtually must be regarded as being in the f.a.q. category. 
Pollution of the Sea by Oil (Question No. 273) 
I do not think there is any reason why the Australian Dairy Produce Board should not make these figures available to the honourable member. In fact, I think that much of this information is probably available in the Board's annual report. However, I will do what I can to obtain the sort of information that he has asked me. It is true that the export, of our dairy products does tend to reduce the overall return that producers .get in Australia. We have satisfactory domestic prices for most dairy products but the overseas prices, because of a world oversupply of most dairy products, are at ruinously low levels. It therefore follows that the more we tend to export the lower the overall return to the Australian producers. 
I have stated on a number of occasions that it is absolutely a crazy policy for public moneys to be spent on expanding the production of dairy products and exporting them to produce a lower return to producers. I would hope that all governments in Australia will adopt policies not to be encouraging the expansion of dairy production but if anything to be reducing it. 
1 am aware of some concern about the concession that was given by the Australian Meat Board to northern meatworks on Friday. I know this because of a number of telegrams I have received from southern meatworks protesting about the concession that was given. But I am also aware of the concern by northern producers that the concession was not big enough, because I have also had telegrams from them. Last week I mentioned to the House that after meeting a deputation from the northern producers and northern meatworks I was concerned at a degree of inequity that existed for northern meatworks through not being able to earn entitlement to export .part crf their production to the lucrative United States market, and I expressed the hope that the Australian Meat Board might give consideration to some concession. 1 should like to inform the House that concessions have been given. I believe they are worth while and will enable meatworks in northern Australia to open this season. This could have been in doubt had nothing happened, lt is necessary for these northern meatworks to be given some concession because basically they produce a manufacturing type of meat - a third grade type of meat - and the only really sound market for it is the United States market. They have been exporting almost their entire production to the United States market over the last 3-year period and if they were asked suddenly to divert a large part of this production to other .markets it would impose a penalty upon them. Concessions have been granted to give them a degree eft flexibility and to enable them to operate this season. They will not be penalised by the more severe ratio that is generally imposed later in the season. The Australian Meat Board has stated that the ratio will be geared to the first 10 weeks of their production rather than the first 10 weeks of the year. As their production normally starts later in the year, they will not be penalised as a result. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The allocation of wheat quotas to farms or individuals is a matter for each State under the provisions of the respective State laws. The Commonwealth is not in possession of the statistical data referred to in the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that Tasmanian growers are concerned at the reduction in price said to be offered by a processor for peas for freezing in the 1970-71 season. The Secretary of the Canning Pea Growers' Association of Tasmania has written to me to express this concern. In my reply to him I have detailed the steps which have been taken by the Government to protect this industry. These include the establishment of an Australian industry panel with grower, processor and Departmental representation in which general industry discussions have proved of great value, and the establishment of an Australia/New Zealand panel in which are discussed questions of production and trade in the area, with the operations of the New Zealand/ Australia Free Trade Agreement in mind. 
In the matter of the contract between grower and processor, it would not seem appropriate for the Government to intervene in an industry agreement of this character. I understand that following a meeting of the Australian Industry Panel on 17th March processors and growers plan further meetings in the immediate future designed to find solutions to their common problems. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth has a very substantial financial commitment to the Ord River scheme by way of grants for Stages 1 and 2, Loans for irrigation works and expenditure on the Kimberley Research Station. In addition cotton growers in the area have received, and are continuing to receive, their share of Commonwealth bounty payments under the terms of the Raw Cotton Bounty Act 1963-69. In aggregate it is considered that Commonwealth financial support to the Ord River already provided or to be provided progressively over the next few years is the maximum that could be reasonably justified. As previously advised to the Western Australia Premier by the Prime Minister, the Commonwealth Government holds the view that the responsibility for crop failures or other economic setbacks associated with the production of crops is the responsibility of the State Government. In fact, the Premier recognised this responsibility in discussions that took place with Commonwealth Ministers in August 1966, on financial undertakings in respect of Stage 2 of the Ord River scheme. 
and (3) In these circumstances the Commonwealth is unable to provide additional financial assistance on the production of cotton at the Ord River, other than through the support afforded under the provisions of the Raw Cotton Bounty legislation which is scheduled to expire at the end of the 1971 Australian cotton production season, that is, 29th February 1972. 
This matter was debated in this House last year. Although the debate was not concluded there were a good many speakers from both sides of the House and the matter was left on the notice paper. But I think that more important possibly than the discussion in this House is the reaction of the Australian wool industry, which probably is more familiar with the need or otherwise of amending the embargo which has been in existence for a long time. The House will recall that the statement in this place revealed that the embargo was to be lifted on, I believe, 1st June. We deferred acting on that decision because of the debate in the Senate and because there was a difference of opinion amongst some of the wool industry organisations. 
During the next month people who had strong feelings on this matter saw the Deputy Prime Minister who gave them an assurance that there would be no implementation of the scheme until those dissident groups had had an opportunity to submit their point of view to their own wool industry organisation, and their organisation had an opportunity to submit it to the Australian Wool Industry Conference, which is the supreme authoritative wool organisation in Australia. The matter was left in abeyance for a period of about 6 months. I saw the executive of the Wool Industry Conference and asked its members what their attitude was and whether they had considered, or would consider, resubmitting the matter to their Conference for re-examination. They informed me that they had made a firm decision, after a great deal of consideration and with the best advice they could obtain throughout Australia, and that is where the position remains. Until the wool industry changes its point of view I see no point in altering the statement already made in this House. 
There was certainly no breach of the undertaking given by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Leader of the Austraiian Country Party. I happened to be in Dubbo on the same day as that group saw  Mr McEwen,  who on that occasion listened to their point of view and said that the Government's decision would not be implemented until they had had reasonable time to go to their industry organisations and put their point of view to them. The  Deputy  Prime Minister said that they could not expect to have unlimited time - he may correct me if I am wrong, but I think that the period of  6  months was mentioned - to go to their industry organisations and in due process for those organisations to refer the matter to the Australian Wool Industry Conference, which is the supreme body. As far as I know, these people may have put it to their industry organisations but the industry organisations have not forwarded it to the Australian Wool Industry Conference, which is the executive. The controlling body of that Conference told me that it had no intention of referring the matter back to the Conference because it had been considered for a period of  12  months. 
The Australian Wool Board had been asked to prepare a White Paper stating all the pros and cons of whether there ought to be a lifting or not. The Paper was prepared after seeking the best information possible from the International Wool Secretariat, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and other bodies. The White Paper was given to the Conference and was circulated to all the wool organisations in Australia. Thirteen of the 16 national and State organisations supported the partial lifting, and the Conference took a vote. I recall now that the result was 16 to 34 in favour of the proposal. The Government was asked to implement the decision and it has acted on the request. It did not act immediately because all these groups felt that there was a strong feeling within the industry that there should not be any movement, that there should not be any partial lifting. The Government delayed action for a period of almost 9 months before the decision was brought into effect. J think that that was pretty fair and considerate. If the industry wishes to change its mind the Government would be quite prepared to look at the matter. 
The information provided by the honourable member relating to the imposition of the embargo is perfectly correct. A Labor government was in power at the time. It was newly elected and due to the serious circumstances in the wool industry at the time it took a decision on a matter which had not been referred to it by industry organisations. There was no referendum. It was purely an authoritarian action by the government of the day to impose a complete embargo on the export of all stud sheep. It did not matter whether they were merinos, dorset horns or any other breeds. It was a very blunt, almost ignorant, decision on the part of that government. Of course, it had to relinquish its decision because the great parent studs of breeds other than merino - lincoln, dorset horn and romney marsh - were in other countries. So the government applied its decision to stud merinos only, ignoring the fact, as the honourable member for Angas has pointed out, that polwarths and zeniths are 85% merino. Of course, no consideration was given to the fact that when these breeds are mated the offspring can be up to 90% merino. It was 5 years before somebody woke up to the fact that it is not very difficult to make a stud animal a flock animal. Nobody could say that the embargo imposed by a Labor government was absolutely effective. My only comment on the last part of the honourable gentleman's question is that it ill behoves the Leader of the Opposition and the shadow Minister for Primary Industry to incite trade unions to act against a decision of the industry simply because a minority opposes the decision of the industry and the Government. 
I am aware that a large meeting was held at Moree. From all accounts it was a very effective and worthwhile meeting, with some excellent addresses being delivered. I have even read the address delivered to the meeting by the honourable member. The outcome of that meeting was a motion, which was carried unanimously, that there should be established a single marketing authority to market the entire Australian wool clip. I am also led to believe that there are going to be other meetings of this nature in places such as Narrandera and Tamworth. 
I would like to tell the honourable member and the Australian Wool Industry that the Government is very concerned at the low prices prevailing in the industry at the moment. These are the lowest prices for 20-odd years. The Government is examining this question and is looking at ways and means by which the position might be managed. At the same time the Australian Wool Board has set up an advisory committee representing all sections of the Australian wool industry - the leaders of those sections - and the committee will be making recommendations to the industry and to the Government. 
In addressing the group last week I said that one of the things that we would need to know quickly is why the price of wool has declined to such an extent in the last 12 months. We want to know whether this is due to economic factors in other countries or to a weakness in the wool marketing system. I want the committee to report to the Government and to make any suggestions that need to be made. I would like to tell the honourable member that we treat this whole matter as a matter of urgency and I have asked the committee to make its recommendations on this question by the end of May. if not earlier. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) My Department has under continuing review the income position of woolgrowers and all the factors which affect woolgrowers' costs, returns and incomes. This includes the effects on woolgrowers of the high rates of economic growth which have been achieved elsewhere in the economy whether due to tariffs or to other measures of government policy; the effects of government policies which assist the industry; as well as other domestic and overseas matters important to their welfare. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics carries out regularly an economic survey of the woolgrowing industry and its research officers are currently undertaking field interviews in order to have available the most uptodate information possible on the economic situation of the industry. 
The Bureau customarily publishes the results of its inquiries and it can be expected that it will follow its normal practice with respect to its present investigations. It should also be mentioned that the Bureau will be providing information on the present economic situation of the industry and on other subjects to assist in the investigation which is being undertaken by the Advisory Committee of the Wool Board and this Committee will also be reporting on all the aspects which bear on the profitability of the woolgrowing industry. 
Electoral Position on Ballot Paper (Question No.  142) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Bureau of Agricultural Economics has not conducted such a survey and I am not aware of a survey of this nature having been undertaken by any other organisation. Because of the Bureau's experience in its efforts to obtain data of this nature which is both comprehensive and reliable, the Bureau does not now attempt to collect such data regularly in its surveys of the economic and financial position of properties in individual rural industries. 
There are no plans to undertake a survey of the kind referred to by the honourable member. 
I believe that today there was a report in one of the newspapers stating that already this year 90% of our meat entitlement on the United States market had been exported and the indication was that there would have to be some cutting off of supplies to the American market if we were not to violate the understanding on the quota that we have for that market. That report is completely untrue; there is no foundation to it whatsoever. The shipments that are made to the United States market start in November and go through to the following October. For the 5 months period up to 31st March approximately 96,000 tons of beef and mutton had been exported to the United States. This is approximately 41%. At the February meeting of the Australian Meat Board there was some concern expressed at the rate at which beef and mutton were being exported to the United States market so the diversification factor was decreased. In other words, greater emphasis was put on exporting more to non-United States markets. At the March meeting so there would be no likelihood of having to restrict supplies it was also decided that from May onwards all exports to the United States market be by agreement with or the approval of the Australian Meat Board. It does seem strange that each year now we have had reports coming up that the quota will be reached before the prescribed time. I do not know where these rumours start but I can imagine that some people are using them to try to depress the market and to buy at an advantage to themselves. 
It would not be possible for me to make an announcement at this stage as to what the underwriting would be. For the past 11 years the Commonwealth has announced annually that there would be an underwriting of 34c per lb. This decision is generally made about July. I think I would be right in saying that the Government is very concerned at the present trend in the dairying industry. I have expressed in this House before my concern at the increasing production that is taking place. If there- is to be a national policy it should not be towards holding production but, if anything, reducing it. At the moment it appears that this year's production will be approximately 220,000 tons. This means more butter going on to the overseas market and reducing the return to producers. The situation has been made more acute by the fact that for the first time it looks as if we will have a surplus of butter in this country; we may have 5,000 tons that we cannot even get rid of. 
The Commonwealth Equalisation Committee, which gives us a forecast of the next year so we can determine what the interim payment will be. has told us we must start thinking in terms of 230,000 tons. If this happens it means at the end of the year 1970-71 we will have a surplus of 20,000 tons of butter. This is a crazy situation and I do not think the Government can be expected to continue to guarantee an underwriting of 34c when one calculates what the Government's commitment would be in these circumstances. My Department informs me that, in addition to the bounties that are given now, if 34c is to be maintained for the year 1970-71 an additional $20m will be required. This is a terribly serious situation for the dairy industry, for the Government and for the taxpayer. 
I have spoken already to some dairy industry leaders. I have said that they will have to do some very serious thinking on this question to try to bring forward plans at least to seal off production where it is or put some deterrent on people continuing to produce more. Unfortunately, most of this increased production is taking place in Victoria where, .today, approximately 64% of Australia's butter, production and about 85% of the butter that is being exported overseas are produced. Every year, production is increasing there. This is practically the only State where we have seen this increase taking place although production in Tasmania is increasing by a small amount annually. 
If the industry expects the Government to maintain and to underwrite the payment of 34c, it certainly will have to put up some suggestions and some proposals to the Government as to how some disincentive might be introduced against people who will increase production. In conclusion, while people might say that the Commonwealth Government should step in and formulate some method of holding or controlling production, may I again add, as I have mentioned regarding the wheat industry, that the Commonwealth Government has no control over production. This is one of the sovereign rights of the States and, therefore, it is a matter that concerns not only this Government but also the State governments. 
The honourable member mentioned two organisations. I find often that quite a number, of organisations have different points of view on these matters. Up to date there has not been any major thinking in the dairy industry on this matter apart from that of the Australian Farmers Federation which has been trying to formulate plans for curtailing production, As a result of the discussions that I have had - I had . them last week with the two organisations which the honourable member mentioned - I think that all of them will be putting their heads together in an attempt to formulate some positive thinking on this very frightening problem. It is a problem which is made ever so much worse by the nightmare hanging over their heads of the possible entry of Britain into the European Common Market and what we will do if we are prevented from selling the great bulk of our butter on the United Kingdom market. I hope to be in constant touch with all of the dairy industry organisations. I have told them that if there is any help which my Department can give them it will be there, ready and waiting, and whenever I can be of help in uniting and co-ordinating the industry I will certainly do my best. 

 - Mr Speaker, I have been treating this as a priority matter in my Department. In fact, I have had the Secretary of my Department take part in most of the negotiations with the States - he is the most senior man I can put on the job - to try to bring this matter to finality. It is near finality. There are a few points that 1 am debating with the State governments and I desperately hope that I can have all States in agreement within the next few weeks. However, failing an agreement of all States, I intend, provided the legislation can be drawn up in time, to bring legislation into the Parliament this session to enable Western Australia to commence the agreement entered into between the Commonwealth and that State. 
No; I am lucky. In reply to the honourable member for Corangamite, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics within my Department does make regular reports about the outlook and situation of some of our major commodities such as wool, wheat, dairy products, beef, mutton, lamb, coarse grains and eggs. It does make a series of shorter term projections of the situation for a whole host of other commodities. It also provides information for various government committees or industry committees so that they might be fully aware of the situation. I concur with the honourable member's remark that Australian rural industries need to be as well informed as possible, and this is part of the reason for some strengthening of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, as the honourable member mentioned. I have emphasised to the Bureau that I want this section of forecasting to be developed as much as it can be so that industries will have the best guidance possible to assess the situation and to make recommendations to the Government. 
I am very conscious that in the last few weeks a number of mass meetings have been held to discuss the problems of the wool industry and that from those meetings a number of resolutions have come. Probably the principal resolution, which came from the Tamworth and Moree meetings, was that there should be a single marketing authority to control the disposal of the Australian wool clip. I am conscious also that yesterday the New South Wales Graziers Association, by a vote of about 90 to 40, supported the concept of  a  single marketing authority. This action by the Association was without precedent. To date no overall recommendation has been made to the Government. No doubt when the Federal bodies meet - I am thinking of the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council and on the other side the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation - they will make some recommendations. They may also put their proposals to the Australian Wool Industry Conference. I would like to add that the Australian Wool Board has set up an advisory committee to look into the problems of the wool industry. No doubt it will come forward with certain findings which may coincide with the resolutions that have been passed by the bodies to which I have referred. At that time the Government will have before it recommendations to which it can give consideration. 
This plant was not built as a result of Government advice. The Australian Dairy Produce Board, supported by the Australian dairy industry, decided to develop recombination plants in different parts of South East Asia to dispose of their butteroil and skimmed milk powder. I believe this is the fifth plant that the Australian Dairy  Produce Board has established. I believe part of the money was directly contributed by the Australian producers, but a large part of the money was lent by the Australian Dairy Produce Board to enable the plant to be established. It is to be repaid over a period of time. However, I inform the honourable member for Riverina that these plants have been quite an outstanding success in some of the areas, and their return to the Australian dairy industry is very satisfactory. Up to date I bave not heard or received any reports of disruption in the establishment of the plant in Cambodia. I believe that the plant is almost completed. It is hoped that it will be opened in the next few months. 
I almost get sick and tired of saying this, but the Commonwealth has no rights at all in imposing production controls. This is a sovereign right of the 
States and the Commonwealth does not play any part at all in it. If there is a feeling that there are injustices, inequities or anomalies in the way quotas are apportioned to individual growers, they should take up their grievences with their own State Government. The State Government determines what the policy is in that State, generally in conjunction with the wheat industry organisations. As far as the Commonwealth's role in this whole problem of surplus production of wheat is concerned, for 18 months before the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation made its decision I had been pointing out the problems that were confronting the industry and were likely to arise if we continued to have an escalation of production and difficult marketing circumstances. As a result of this the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation made a decision that there needed to be some restraints put on production, lt determined a national quota and how this should be divided between the States. The Federation did this itself. It required that the Commonwealth guarantee a first advance payment of Si. 10 on that amount of wheat, but then it was up to each individual State to apportion its quota to individual growers. So I say again that if growers feel there is any injustice or anomaly, this is a matter which should be taken up with their own State Government; the Commonwealth has no hand in it whatsoever. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable the Australian Canned Fruits Board to pay to canners from the Canned Fruit Excise Fund a proportion of the excise paid by them in the period 1st January 1969 to 27th March 1969. The excise is imposed on specified varieties of canned deciduous fruits and mixtures thereof entered for home consumption and is the income source of the Canned Fruit Excise Fund. The Fund is utilised by the Australian Canned Fruits Board in carrying out its functions in relation to the export marketing of canned fruit. Up to the 31st December 1968, the Board used this Fund principally in the payment of market development allowances to assist exports of canned fruit to difficult markets. Another important use was to finance promotion ventures in various overseas markets. The rate of excise was reduced about 12 months ago, after a recommendation from the Board, from 30c per dozen 29 oz cans to 5c per dozen 29 oz cans. The chief factor in this decision was that following an agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the United States of America the payment of market development allowances from the Fund on export of Australian canned peaches to major export countries was discontinued from the 1st January 1969- 
When these payments were discontinued the Canned Fruits Board immediately asked the Government to reduce the rate of excise. In the event, measures to effect this reduction could not, for administrative reasons, be concluded until the end of 
March 1969 and consequently collections at the high rate continued for about 3 months after the payment of market development allowances ceased. The net result is that the Board has substantial moneys lying idle in the Fund and has recommended that a large portion of these moneys, representing the excess over its current requirements be returned to the original contributors of excise over the period 1st January 1969 to 27th March 1969. The Board has decided to increase its expenditure in 1970 on promotion from the Excise Fund and the refund will be at a level which will enable sufficient moneys to be retained for this purpose. Under the present wording of the Act it is not permissible for the Board to make refunds of moneys paid. The present Bill is to enable this to be done. 1 commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
I am aware of the desire of the Australian meat industry to get as large a quota as it possibly can into the United States market for beef and mutton. Most officials, when they do go to America to have discussions - particularly the Prime Minister or the Minister for Trade and Industry - bring this matter before the attention of the administration. I would like to say that any liberalisation of the present quota is not an easy thing to accomplish. First of all, the quota for beef and mutton imported into the United States is fixed by Act of Congress and any liberalisation would necessitate an amendment through Congress or the intervention of the  President  himself. However, having said that I will certainly be discussing with Secretary Hardin the question of imports of meat into the United States when 1 attend the Ottawa grain conference in about a fortnight's time. 
It is my intention to travel to Ottawa via Japan. I have arranged with the International Wool Secretariat to have discussions with the 10 major textile manufacturers in Japan. We must recognise that Japan, being the principal buyer of Australian wool, plays a very important role in any alteration in the method of disposing of Australian wool that might be recommended to the Government. It is therefore my intention to discuss fully with these purchasers of Australian wool their reactions, to gauge some sort of impression from them and to notify them that there is a very strong feeling within the industry in Australia that some alteration ought to be brought about. 1 think that in due course something will happen. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be  now read a second  time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make a minor amendment to the Processed Milk Products Bounty Act 1962-1968 which is the Act relating to the distribution of bounty payments on the export of processed milk products. The amendment will enable the alternative formula in the proposed Dairying Industry Bill to be used in the determination of the rate of bounty payable in respect of any processed milk product exports consistent with the present legislative requirement that the rate of bounty payable shall not be greater than the rate applicable to butter fat used in the production of butter in the same year. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
I see nothing of a challenge in this. This is information that has been asked of me several times. Some of the information can be provided and some cannot. I have quite openly stated on a number of occasions that there is no record of wheat that is traded outside the Australian Wheat Board. This is more or less illegal trading of wheat, using the provision in section 92 of the Constitution, and there is nothing that can be done to stop it if the wheat is going across a State border. There have been some very wild and extravagant estimates made of the amount of wheat that has been traded across borders. I will explain why these estimates are wild and extravagant. I believe that a figure of SO million bushels has been used by the honourable member for Riverina. But when one looks back at the records of the Australian Wheat Board for the quantity of feed wheat that is used in Australia one finds that this figure is generally between 16 million and 28 million bushels, depending upon whether the figure is for a drought year or a nondrought year. For anyone to suggest that SO million bushels of wheat is being traded across the border for this purpose is just to make an almost stupid estimate of the amount involved. We know that wheat is being traded across the border for stock feed purposes, but there is no indication that millers are involved in illegal trading in wheat. Therefore any wheat that is going across the border is being used specifically for feed purposes and the amount involved must be a figure below the maximum that has been used in the past. 
Of course, the Australian Wheat Board is making useful sales of wheat for stock feed purposes. The Board is making these useful sales by disposing of a lot of its off-grade wheat. Therefore part of the stock feed demand in Australia must be met by the Australian Wheat Board. We also know that the sales of other types of stock feed - sorghum and barley - are hitting record levels this year and they must be replacing in some cases wheat that is normally used for stock feed purposes. But to suggest, as the honourable member for Riverina suggested, that the amount involved is 50 million bushels is a stupid and extravagant statement and cannot be claimed to be authentic in any way whatsoever. 
As far as the amount of grain being held on farms is concerned, a figure could be obtained for this. I will do what I can for the honourable member. The Department of Census and Statistics might be able to obtain a figure for this. But anyone who says that growers do not know whether they are going to be paid for over-quota wheat is not keeping informed of the situation, because the Australian Wheat Growers Federation has firmly laid down a policy for over-quota wheat - that there will be no payment for this wheat this year, but if wheat growers are able to include that wheat in their quota allocation for the forthcoming season there will be a payment on it. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read  a second  time. 
The purpose of this Bill and the related Bills is to give effect to proposals submitted to the Government by the Australian Dairy Industry Council to provide statutary support to the present dairying industry equalisation scheme. The equalisation scheme which has operated since 1934 is based on a system of voluntary agreements between participating manufacturers and the Commonwealth Dairy Produce Equalisation Committee Ltd, hereafter referred to as the Equalisation Committee. Broadly the scheme is an annual pooling of local and export sales so that all factories receive the same return for their butter, cheese or casein irrespective of the market on which the product is sold. The stability which has resulted from the equalisation scheme has proved of great value to dairy farmers. An inherent weakness in the scheme is its dependence on the voluntary co-operation of manufacturers who may give notice of withdrawal at any time. Any appreciable withdrawal could result in the breakdown of the arrangements with disastrous consequences for the industry as it would inevitably result in price cutting on the local market and lead to a complete loss of price stability as the domestic price would inevitably be forced down to the level of export parity. 
The Commonwealth Government as a practical measure of support has since 1943 made eligibility for bounty payments on butter and cheese under the stabilisation arrangements conditional on factory participation in equalisation. The strength of this provision however has diminished over the years with the reduction in the average unit rate of bounty payable arising from increased total production and a gradual widening in the gap between equalisation values and the return from the local market. While there is no immediate threat to the scheme these factors have created some uncertainty as to its continued operation on a voluntary basis. At the present time there are a number of small cheese companies that are not in equalisation but their production is not sufficient to make their non-participation a threat to the existing scheme. However dairy industry leaders have been aware that the scheme could be quickly undermined by the withdrawal of even one significant manufacturer and for some years have been investigating with the Commonwealth and the States ways and means of buttressing the scheme. 
The Government agrees with the Australian Dairy Industry Council that the continuation of the equalisation scheme is necessary for the orderly marketing of butter, cheese and casein and that the voluntary scheme requires statutory support in order to secure a firmer foundation for the industry's organisation. It has accepted the Council's proposals for federal legislation to provide a Commonwealth levy on production to finance equalisation payments as the most practical means of achieving this. This Bill and the accompanying Bills give effect to the basic provisions of the industry's proposals which are designed to permit the continuation of the existing equalisation arrangements. The proposals have been unanimously endorsed by the Australian Dairy Industry Council and have also received the approval of the Australian Agricultural Council. The basic element of the industry proposals is tha establishment of a fund by way of a levy on the production of dairy produce to provide the necessary finance for equalisation payments. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for  a  separate levy to be imposed on the production of butter, butter oil, cheese, casein and such other dairy produce as may be prescribed. The Bill provides that where production at a factory is on average less than 5 cwt per month over a production period the product is exempt from the levy. This provision will exclude the smaller fancy cheese manufacturers and there is flexibility in the proposed legislation to make any concessional payments to larger manufacturers that may be negotiated with the Equalisation Committee. Condensery products have been specifically excluded as there is no support from the manufacturers of those products for an equalisation scheme. The levy will be payable by the proprietor of the factory at which the dairy produce is produced, lt will apply from a date to be prescribed for each type of dairy produce and the operative rate will be prescribed after recommendation to the Minister by the Australian Dairy Industry Council. The maximum rates of levy specified in the Bill are the rates recommended to the Government by the Australian Dairy Industry Council. 
The legislation has been designed to permit the imposition of the levy on one product or a number of products as circumstances warrant. The levy for equalisation purposes will be related to a production period which will normally cover the 12 months period ending 30th June but there is provision to reduce a production period should the need arise. As the rate of levy will be determined essentially by the amount of equalisation payments made in respect of sales from the relevant production period it cannot be determined for some months after the end of the production period. Consequently provision has been made for the rate of levy applicable to the specified kind of dairy produce to be prescribed between 6 months and 2 years after the end of the production period. For the purpose of securing the collection of the levy during the interim period there will be imposed a provisional levy which will enable funds to be collected for equalisation purposes as the season progresses. I would emphasise that all the proceeds of the levy will be repaid to the dairy industry and that the scheme does not involve the Commonwealth in any financial commitment. 
propose now to outline the other main features of the scheme such as the arrangements for the collection of the levy and the distribution of equalisation payments which are embodied in the accompanying legislation. The proceeds of the levy will be used essentially to make equalisation payments on the export of dairy produce subject to the levy at the rate required to increase the export return to the level of the domestic return. Equalisation payments will also be made on the export of other products made from dairy produce which have been subject to the levy, such' as processed cheese. In addition, the levy proceeds may be used to make equalisation payments on the production of products made from dairy produce subject to the levy. This will permit the industry to continue its long-standing practice of making concessional sales to manufacturers of certain products - notably ice cream manufacturers. 
In addition to the equalisation payments mentioned above the levy proceeds may also be used to meet cold storage and other marketing and administration costs incurred by the Equalisation Committee. In effect the Equalisation Committee will be able to continue its present important function of ensuring the maintenance of supplies of butter and cheese to meet requirements throughout Australia all the year round without additional costs to the consumer. The levy proceeds may also be used to meet costs incurred in the withholding of export surpluses and subsequent planned shipments to the United Kingdom to ensure continuity of supply on that market. These are important functions currently being performed by the Equalisation Committee. 
Provision has been made for the Commonwealth Government to make arrangements with the Equalisation Committee to collect levies and disburse equalisation payments on its behalf. This will enable factories already in equalisation to continue their existing arrangements with the Equalisation Committee if they so wish. In effect they will continue to make payments to the Equalisation Committee when market realisations exceed the average equalisation value out of which the Committee will pay the levy on behalf of member factories. In turn the equalisation payments will be offset against levy commitments. Other factories may opt to pay the levy direct to the Commonwealth or the Equalisation Committee, and receive equalisation payments where eligible. 
I mentioned earlier that the payment of bounty on butter and cheese under the dairying industry stabilisation arrangements is restricted to factories participating in the present equalisation scheme. As the levy under the proposed legislation will be payable by all factories, provision has been made to amend the Dairying Industry Act to enable the payment of the stabilisation bounty to be made on the production of all butter and cheese on which levy has been imposed. 
For the purpose of administering legislation involving the collection of levies and their disbursement provision is required for persons authorised by the Minister to enter premises and examine documents and papers that are relevant to the operation of the legislation. Some concern has been expressed by the Parliament on the need to ensure that such provisions do not infringe on the civil liberties of the community and a new provision has been included which takes account of the main objections raised. The provision which has been included in two of the accompanying Bills provides for reference to a justice of the peace for a warrant to enter premises in which dairy produce is produced if the consent of the occupier is not forthcoming. This provision should ensure that the civil liberties of the community are not infringed and, at the same time, permit the legislation to be enforced. 
The equalisation scheme embodied in this Bill and the accompanying legislation is an industry scheme financed completely by industry money and accordingly it has been deemed appropriate to make provision for the Australian Dairy Industry Council to make recommendations to the Minister for Primary Industry on the main aspects to be covered by regulation, such as the date of imposition of the levy, the rates of levy, provisional levy and equalisation payments. 
A referendum of dairy producers held before the introduction of the existing equalisation scheme in 1934 indicated overwhelming support for the scheme. While it is apparent that there is general producer acceptance for the proposed legislation in view of the lapse of time since the last referendum the Government considers it desirable to hold a further poll of producers. The Dairying Industry Equalisation Legislation Referendum Bill provides that the implementation of this Bill, the Dairying Industry Levy Collection Bill and the Dairying Industry Equalisation Bill, is conditional on a simple majority vote of dairy producers cast at a poll being in favour of this course. lt is the intention of the Government after consultation with the industry to conduct the poll as soon as practicable after the legislation has been passed by Parliament. 
The legislation has been designed so that a compulsory equalisation scheme for a particular product or products will not be implemented unless there is a specific need created such as by the withdrawal of an important manufacturer from the present voluntary equalisation scheme. 
The Australian dairy industry is faced with a serious situation because of increasing butter production which has resulted not only in a reduction in producer returns because of the higher proportion which has to be sold on the unprofitable export market, but it is also heading the industry into a serious surplus problem. The industry will need to take some positive steps to meet the situation which could well impose some strain on its present marketing structure, the core of which is the existing equalisation scheme. The Government believes that this Bill and the accompanying Bills will provide a firmer foundation for the industry's organisation and improve the prospect of securing the co-operation of State governments and the industry in taking some positive action to meet the problems of the industry. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
 I move: That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide the machinery for the collection of the levy and the provisional levy imposed under the Dairying Industry Levy Bill 1970. To facilitate the collection of the levy the Bill makes provision for the Commonwealth to enter into an arrangement with the existing equalisation body, namely, the Commonwealth Dairy Produce Equalisation Committee Ltd to collect the levy and the provisional levy on behalf of the Commonwealth. This provision will permit the existing arrangements for factories already in equalisation to be continued. Other factories can opt to pay the levy and the provisional levy direct to the Commonwealth or the Equalisation Committee. 
The provisional levy in respect of a production period which is collected from a proprietor of a factory will be offset against his levy commitment for that production period. Any provisional levy collected in excess of that commitment will be refunded. The arrangement embodied in the Bill for the collection of levy by means of a provisional levy is thus similar to the pay as you earn taxation collection arrangement. The progressive collection of the provisional levy is necessary to finance equalisation payments as the actual rate of the levy cannot be determined until sales have been completed which, on experience, could take up to 2 years after the end of the production period. 
The levy and provisional levy are imposed cm the product at the time of production and as there is frequently a weight loss in the case of cheese during the maturation process provision has been made for the levy and the provisional levy to be calculated on the weight of the cheese at the end of the maturation process. The machinery for collection provided in this Bill has been designed so that it can be adapted with a minimum of interference to the existing industry arrangements. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on morion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
I move: 
Thai the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for the establishment of a Dairy Produce Equalisation Trust Account and for the payment into this account, of amounts equal to the amounts collected as levy and provisional levy under the Dairying Industry Levy Bill. The moneys in the Trust Account will be used to make the type of equalisation payments and other payments described in my second reading speech on the Dairying Industry Levy Bill. There will be provision fo.~ interim rates of equalisation payments to be fixed by the Minister for Primary Industry from time to time after taking into account any recommendations by the Australian Dairy Industry Council. The final rates of equalisation payments will be fixed by regulation. 
There is also provision for the Commonwealth to enter into an arrangement with the Commonwealth Dairy Produce Equalisation Committee Ltd to make equalisation payments to proprietors of factories on behalf of the Commonwealth Government. This provision complements the arrangements for the collection of levy which are designed to permit the existing arrangements for factories already in equalisation to be continued. Other factories can opt to receive the equalisation payments direct from the Commonwealth or from the Equalisation Committee. There is provision for an annual report to be submitted to Parliament on the operation of the Act. 
This is the third of the complementary Bills required to implement the industry's proposals for statutory support to the present dairying equalisation arrangements. It lays down the procedures for returning to the industry the money provided by the Dairying Industry Levy Bill and so allows for the completion of the equalisation process without any financial commitment to the Commonwealth. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion -by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make legislative arrangements for a referendum to be conducted on the question of whether the Dairying Industry Levy Act, the Dairying Industry Levy Collection Act and the Dairying Industry Equalisation Act should be brought into operation. The Bill provides that the Acts cannot be implemented unless a simple majority of the votes cast at a poll of producers is in favour of this course. In order that the views of the industry should be properly reflected, voting in the referendum will be compulsory. 
Under the terms of the Bill a producer will be entitled to a vote if during the year preceding the polling day he supplied milk or cream to a butter or cheese factory and at the time of voting owned cows for this purpose. Where milk or cream is supplied to a factory by a partnership each partner will be entitled to a vote. In the case of companies, each company will receive a vote. To avoid the possibility of minors voting in the referendum only persons who have attained the age of 21 years will be allowed to vote. Voters will have the opportunity to study the legislation and consider its implications as the Bill provides that the Minister for Primary Industry shall prepare a pamphlet containing authorised arguments in favour of an affirmative or negative answer to the question to be decided by the poll. The pamphlet will be distributed to all eligible voters with their ballot papers. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That  the  Bill  be  now  read  a second time. 
In my second reading speech on the dairying Industry Levy Bill I mentioned that the payment of the stabilisation bounty on butter and cheese under the Dairying Industry Act, 1962-1967 was restricted to factories participatitng in equalisation. As the levy under the proposed Dairying Industry Levy Bill will be payable by all factories provision has been made to amend the Dairying Industry Act 1962-1967 to enable the payment of the stabilisation bounty to be made on the production of all butter and cheese on which levy has been imposed. The Bill has been designed to enable the amendment to be implemented separately in respect of butter or cheese in the event that levy is imposed on only 1 of these products. 
The opportunity has been taken to make some additional amendments to the principal Act. The first amendment relates to a recommendation made to the Minister for Primary Industry in 1967 by the Australian Dairy Industry Council that for the year 1968-69 and subsequent years bounty should be paid under the Dairying Industry Act on the basis that would yield a uniform rate on a butter fat basis for both butter and cheese. There are administrative difficulties in achieving a uniform rate of bounty under the present provisions of the Act which require separate appropriations to be made for butter and cheese. At the time of appropriation it is impossible to forecast what amounts should be appropriated to yield a uniform bounty rate as the production year is then only beginning. The alternative formula proposed provides for the appropriation of a single amount for butter and cheese which will automatically determine one rate for butter fat for both butter and cheese. This amendment will require a consequential amendment to the Processed Milk Products Bounty Act 1962-1968 and a separate Bill has been drafted for this purpose. 
A second amendment will provide for the withholding of bounty payments on butter and cheese on the recommendation of the Australian Dairy Industry Council where provisional levy and levy is owed by the proprietor of a factory for more than 3 months. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
I recall seeing an article on this  matter  printed last year and distributed in Western Australia. Later it was referred to me by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation with the request that my Department investigate the proposition. During the war the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd was commissioned to build a number of plants to produce power alcohol, or ethyl alcohol, for use as an additive to petrol. Only I such plant was constructed. It operated for a very short time mainly because there was an inadequate supply of material to keep it working. If I correctly recall the reply that I gave to the Federation concerning the findings of my Department  -  i would be happy to let the honourable member have a copy - it was to the effect that whilst it was technically feasible to produce power alcohol from wheat it was not an economic proposition. The technical position is that when it is added to petrol apparently the efficiency of the fuel declines. In addition there is some price factor in it. The real crux of the matter is that any plan to produce power alcohol calls for a capital intensive project and to make it a success there must be a continuity of raw material at a satisfactory price. The price at which one could obtain wheat apparently forbids this being an economic proposition. This has been the finding in the United States of America where this proposition has also been considered. If alcohol is to be made from grain the prices for alternative types of carbohydrates may make them much more attractive than wheat. In view of this sort of information I had to inform the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation that the advice of my Department was that this proposal was not economically or technically feasible. 
I have read in the newspapers a report that 2 major wool growing organisations - the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council and the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation - have unanimously supported the proposal that there be a single marketing authority for the handling of the Australian wool clip and that this opinion has been supported unanimously by the 
Australian Wool Industry Conference. I have not had any negotiations with or received any direct information from these bodies, but I expect I will do so in the very near future. It is not quite clear what they have in mind as to how this authority might be operated or what might be the functions of the authority. I think it is clearly recognised now throughout the industry that the present auctions system is rather out of date for modern merchandising methods and requirements. What the organisations have in mind is some strengthening of the proposal that was put for the interlocking of one, two and three bales, that there be standards for clip preparation and presentation; that there ought to be some development of other methods of selling wool apart from the auction system; and that there be methods of negotiating sales and contract arrangements under which the user might be assured of continuity of supplies over a period of time at some agreed price. I think this is the sort of proposal they have in mind. 
My Department stands ready to aid the wool industry organisations and the Australian Wool Board in the preparation of proposals that might be practicable, workable and sensible. I think that in the course of supplying this information they will come forward with their recommendations whatever they might be. I would like to take this opportunity to say it is very pleasing indeed, and I am sure a great relief to everybody in the wool industry, that for the first time there is agreement between the wool industry organisations. For too many years the industry has been divided. There has been great acrimony and dissension on the question of the marketing of wool, and now for the first time we see them getting together and putting forward a proposal, and I hope it will be acceptable to the Government. 
[12.51 - 1  thank the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan for providing me with the opportunity to say a few words in this debate, particularly in relation to the dairying industry. Wc all are conscious of the very serious and worrying situation that many of our rural industries find themselves in. particularly the dairying industry. So I should like to give some facts and figures in support of what 1  said in the House a week or so ago about the increased production of- dairy produce in Australia and the problem that that poses for our dairying industry.  1  hope that  1  will not transgress the understanding that has- been reached that this -sitting will not proceed past  12.15  p.m. 
During the II -year period  1959-60  to  1969-70  there has been considerable variation in butter production in Australia, ranging from  170,000  tons in  1960-61  lo the record high of  220,000  tons in  1969-70.  The previous peak was  218,000  tons in  1966-67.  For the  5  years prior to  1966-67  production had been - constant at around  200,000  tons, so that the  1966-67  figure seemed to be exceptional as good seasons were . experienced in all States. Then followed  2  years in which drought in certain States reduced production to  193,000  tons and 196,000 tons respectively. The significant factor is that over the period Victoria has been continually improving its relative position. This year production will amount to 140,000 tons in that State- 64% of the total - compared with 89,000 tons or 46% in 1959-60. New dairy farms are being developed and the number of dairy cattle per farm is increasing, which would point to further, production increases. Queensland production in 1969-70 is some 5,000 to 6,000 tons below the level that might normally be expected, so that some increase in production must be anticipated in 1970-71. Given the situation in Victoria, a production figure of at least 230,000 tons must be reckoned on for the forthcoming season unless some form of production disincentive is put into effect. This figure is supported by officials of the Commonwealth Dairy Produce Equalisation Committee Ltd. 
For some years the per capita consumption of butter in Australia has been declining, but because of the population increase the total consumption figure has held fairly constant at around 115,000 tons. One factor is that an increasing proportion of this amount has been sold for manufacturing purposes. However, increased competition from substitutes is having its effect and this year the Australian figure could fall to 113,000 tons. Australia has always had to depend on export outlets for a high proportion of total butter production - usually about 40% when production has been around the 200,000 ton level. Because of the difference between the domestic price, which is 47.3c per lb, and the average export price, which is 20.5c per lb, the proportion exported has a marked effect on the equalised return to the producer. This is illustrated by the following estimates which are based on current prices and include bounty payments. With production at 200,000 tons the estimated return to the producer would be 33.6c per lb commercial butter basis. For each additional 10,000 tons exported his return would be reduced by 1.2c per lb. On 230,000 tons his estimated return would be 30c per lb commercial butter. This figure would naturally be even worse if the export of that total amount could not be expected. 
In view of the present world market situation for dairy products the industry is pursuing a senseless policy in increasing production as it can only lead to further sales at unecomonic prices and consequential reductions in producers' returns. This is bad enough in itself, but the situation has now been reached where markets are not available to dispose of the whole of the production. Already the industry is faced this season with a 5,000-ton surplus carryover and on the basis of the current market situation the indications are that there could be a further build-up in stocks of some 15,000 tons during 1970-71 . This could leave the industry with a surplus figure of 20,000 tons by the end of June 1971, which would be an intolerable situation. 
The world market situation is overshadowed by the European Economic Community with its huge butter surpluses which now amount to 300,000 tons and which are being sold at subsidised prices on the markets of traditional suppliers. In addition, production in other competing countries, such as New Zealand and Ireland, is on the upswing. In the main world market, the United Kingdom, the position of supplying countries is governed by the level of the import quotas. They have been maintained at a level to hold prices down and, with United Kingdom production increasing and total consumption more or less static, there is little scope for worthwhile increases in individual country quotas. In the United States market all the action in recent years has been designed to further restrict imports, even though there has been quite a substantial decline in dairy production. The domestic industry has a powerful lobby which is acutely sensitive to imports and it has been very successful in securing higher domestic .price supports over the last 4 years and a tightening of the restrictions on imports. Apart from domestic political considerations, the huge surplus of dairy, products in Europe is a substantial factor inhibiting any relaxation in the United States import restrictions and in securing a constructive approach to the world wide trade situation for dairy produce. 
Outside the 2 main areas mentioned above there are numerous but small markets which, on present indications, do not seem to present any substantial opportunity for expansion in the short term. Most of these markets are in developing countries, and dietary habits and lack of purchasing power are significant factors affecting demand. 
Moreover, butter sales are under constant pressure from subsidised butter oilfrom the EEC, which is being used for reconstitution purposes. This is a developing trend which is undermining butter prices in these markets. The other main outlet is for the sale of butter oil to milk reconstitution plants and the price for this product is governed mainly by competing products. Here again the market is under heavy pressure from EEC supplies and the returns are not relative to those received for butter. Given the present circumstances, it is difficult to see any improvement in the demand and price for butter in the world market. In effect there is a world overproduction of butter and Australia is contributing to it. 
Since devaluation there has been a deterioration in the world market situation. Whereas initially 79% of Australian butter exports received maximum compensation, the figure has now reached 95%. This, coupled with increased population, has lifted the devaluation compensation for butter from $4.6m in 1967-68 to $8.3m in 1968-69 and an estimated $ll.6m in 1969-70. In J 969-70 it will represent about 2.32c per lb commercial butter to the producer and, coupled with the last increase in the local price, should be sufficient to ensure that the Government's underwriting commitment of 34c does not involve any financial commitment. With production at 230,000 tons however, devaluation compensation in 1970-71 would amount to an estimated $ 1 2.7m, but this would fall short of the $20.5m which would be required to maintain the 34c underwriting. Thus,$7.8m would be required in addition to devaluation compensation. 
In the circumstances, all the indications are that a production figure of 230,000 tons in 1970-71 will have 3 serious consequences: (1) it willlead to a further reduction in producer returns because of the higher proportion of output which has to be sold on the export market; (2) it could involve the Government in a financial commitment, an additional commitment over the bounty of $20.5m to maintain the level of underwriting at 34c; and (3) it could add a further 15,000 tons to the estimated carryover this year of 5,000 tons, and lead the industry into a serious surplus problem. Clearly the position has now been reached, as with wheat, where production restraints are required. It is just not logical or realistic to allow the position to drift further. To do otherwise would lead to the industry being placed in an impossible situation. 
This conclusion does not even take account of the problems that will be posed by Britain's entry into the European Economic Community, which could require the industry to take very drastic measures to meet the situation within quite a short period. From the Government's point of view a case for 34c underwriting is difficult to sustain in the circumstances unless the industry leaders, as in the case of wheat, are prepared to face up to the situation and come up with some logical proposals in the long-term interests of the industry to curtail production to known market levels. In order to assist industry in its thinking on this question. I am willing to make officers of my Department available, and should they bring forward recommendations that would involve the State governments, 1 am happy to act as convenor and coordinator to help resolve this question. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Grassby)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The report has been thoroughly investigated and there arc no grounds for supporting the proposals because (a) Manufacturers of soilincorporated herbicides are already required to establish the safety, persistence and performance of their product under typical conditions of use in each State before seeking clearance for registration for sale, (b) Under State legislation every word on the label of a herbicide must be approved by registration authorities on the recommendations of Slate weed agronomists. The rate of use under differing conditions of soil must be specified where appropriate. A product may not be sold for a purpose which has not been approved and registered. (c) Farmers are usually aware whethertheir soil is 'heavy' (clayey) or 'light' (sandy) and they adjust their herbicide rates accordingly. Should they require advice, an excellent service is available from district agronomists in all States. 
Effective legislation has been in operation in all Slates for many years. To ensure uniformity and to co-ordinate all available information the Australian Agricultural Council has agreed that no new chemicals will be registered by State Authorities until the use has been evaluated and clearance has been issued by the Technical Committee on Agricultural Chemicals comprising all State authorities under the chairmanship of the Department of Primary Industry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The percentage of gross national product at factor cost represented by the output of rural industries is as shown below: 
While I was in Ottawa last week at the wheat talks, the Secretary of Agriculture in the United States,  Mr Hardin,  told me that he was deeply concerned at the high rejection rate of Australian mutton exported to the United States. The rejection rate had amounted to about 1 million lb up to the middle of April. This indicated that our meat was not meeting the standards necessary for entry to the United States market. He also told me that he was coming under very severe criticism by the Congress because this meat was coming to the United Stales market. Because of this 1 arranged for the Secretary of my Department, who was with me, to fly immediately to Washington to have talks with the Department of Agriculture there and to ascertain what the position was. He reported to me that it seemed inevitable that a decision would be taken to place a temporary ban on the import of mutton from Australia until the general standards of hygiene and of mutton inspection in Australia came up to the US requirement. An announcement was made yesterday afternoon that this ban is to apply. The US decision is that mutton produced in Australian meat works after 15th May will not be eligible for export to the American market but mutton packed up to and including 15th May will be allowed. This restriction will remain in effect until the US authorities are satisfied that the Austraiian inspection standards are the same as those that apply to the US Department of Agriculture and as required under the United States Wholesome Meat Act. Mutton export meat works will be reinstated only after recommendation by my Department and after reinspection of each works by US officials. My Department has also convened a meeting of the Meat Industry Advisory Committee in Canberra for this Thursday so that the whole matter might be discussed and we might be able to implement measures so that mutton meat works can be reinstated. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The claim submitted by the Australian Dried Fruits Association for compensation on prune exports affected by the devaluation of sterling in November 1967 amounted to $28,563.11. This amount was made up of $27,620.23 representing losses claimed on unremitted sterling funds, unpaid sterling contracts and firm forward sterling contracts; and $942.88 representing the difference in Australian currency between the value of insurance recoveries in post devaluation circumstances for fruit held up in the Suez Canal and the value of such recoveries if they had been paid in pre-devaluation circumstances. 
and (4) The claim by the Australian Dried Fruits Asociation was submitted on 29th August, 1968. The losses amounting to $27,620.23 were losses of a kind occurring immediately at the time of devaluation which could have been avoided if the exporters concerned had taken out forward exchange insurance cover available from the Reserve Bank. The Government had announced early in August 1968 that losses of this kind would not be compensated as they could not meet one of the basic criteria for compensation laid down in Docember 1967, namely, that particular losses claimed as a consequence of devaluation had to be unavoidable. 
The Association was informed of this decision on the 12th September 1968, and (he decision's applicability to the prune industry case was confirmed by letter to the Association of the 21st October 1968. The Association informed all packers and agents by circular of the 28th October 1968. 
The Government gave further consideration to devaluation compensation in respect of goods held up in the Suez Canal, but decided that devaluation losses in this regard were not eligible for compensation, as forward exchange cover would also have been available against this kind of loss. This decision was announced in December 1968 and the Association specifically informed of it on the 19th December 1968. 
These decisions were applied to compensation claims for these kinds of losses received from a range of industries and were not applied only to the prune industry. The suggestion that compensation for these kinds of losses was paid to other industries in the same circumstances is not correct. 
At talks at Ottawa involving the 5 major wheat exporting countries - Australia, Canada, the United States of America, Argentine and the European Economic Community - figures showed that last year stock holdings of wheat went up by about 900 million bushels, an increase of almost 50%, to well over 2,000 million bushels. The forecasts for this year are that the increase will be only about 200 million bushels. It is anticipated that in 1971 we may see, for the first time since 1965, a decline in world stockpiles of wheat. We must consider this against the background that Australia has imposed a deliveries quota reducing by 40% the amount of wheat that can be delivered as against deliveries of two seasons ago. It also must be remembered that the United States has its lowest wheat acreage allotment since the 1930s. The allotment is 45.5 million acres. This will be further reduced next year by 2 million acres. In Canada there has been a quota system operating for many years. Canada is now introducing what is known as 'operation lift' to try to reduce the inventory by paying farmers not to produce wheat. In fact the Canadian Minister has said that he would be happy if no wheat at all was produced this year. In Argentine there has not been any increase in production because of a number of reasons. In the European Economic Community, although the authorities are not taking action to curtail production, they do have in hand certain reconstruction proposals and they do not expect their exports of wheat to increase in the next 3 years. The situation there will remain stable. 
With those facts in mind I am optimistic enough to hope that we might not have to cut back much further our present delivery quotas. However I say that whilst bearing very much in mind that we will have to keep a close watch on our own stock holdings, the world situation and weather conditions, so that we produce only what we can actually sell. 
I present the Agreement between the Commonwealth of Australia and the State of Western Australia in relation to marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme 1970. Copies are being distributed to honourable members. 
During my absence reports apparently were given of foreign vessels operating both off Cape Patton in Victoria and off the Tasmanian coast. The identity of these vessels is not known and they have not been located. This is partly due to the fact that reports of these vessels have been very slow in getting to official sources so that action can be taken to see whether they can be located and identified. In the case of the vessels off Cape Patton, fishermen apparently saw an unidentified fishing vessel there on 30th April, I think it was. It was not reported to the Victorian fishing authorities until 4th May. By that time there was no information about where the vessel was located or where to look for it. I believe that there was also some delay in reporting the vessel off the Tasmanian coast. I would welcome it very much if fishermen would notify the authorities as quickly as possible whenever they sight unidentified vessels so that measures can be taken either with aircraft or patrol vessels to find out just who they are and what they are doing. But I would like to point out to the honourable member that in relation to certain waters around Australia we do have a fishing agreement with Japan that enable her long line tuna vessels to fish within the exclusive fishing zone. It may have been one of these Japanese long line tuna vessels operating in the area. T want to emphasise again that if fishermen do see these foreign vessels they should report the sighting to the authorities as quickly as possible so that action can be taken. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill will give effect to the Government's intention to make available up to $25m over a period of 4 years for implementation of the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme. Tabled with the Bill is an agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the Government of Western Australia which will come into force immediately this Bill is enacted by Parliament. The way in which the Bill and the agreement have been drawn makes it desirable that they be read in conjunction with each other. The scheme as outlined in this Bill had its origin when the Australian Dairy Industry Council in October 1966 submitted a number of proposals to the Commonwealth Government in connection with the renewal of the industry stabilisation plan for the 5 years from 1st July 1967. The Dairy Industry Council recommended that, in addition to maintaining the already existing measures of Government support to the industry, the Federal Government should provide funds for distribution in conjunction with State governments, as combined grants and loans to provide for the reconstruction of dairy farm units which were uneconomic because of size. 
The Government accepted this industry recommendation and formulated the present reconstruction plan. In its essential features, this plan is in line with the recommendation by the Industry Council. The world situation in dairying shows an overwhelming pattern of production surpluses. Butter stocks in the 10 major producing countries have risen for the fifth year in succession. The European Economic Community alone has a butter surplus of around 300,000 tons or little short of half the world's annual trade in butter. The Six have accumulated this surplus through beggar-my-neighbour policies such as high export subsidies, despite continued representations by Australia and other countries for moderation. 
Britain remains the major market for Australian dairy products. But the British market is limited by quotas, requiring restraint to be exercised by Australia, New Zealand and other suppliers. Even that trade is in jeopardy should Britain join the European Economic Community without first ensuring that there are adequate safeguards for its traditional suppliers. The quotas may have resulted in a reasonably stable price for butter on the British market, but returns from that market can scarcely be called remunerative. In Australia itself, the consumption of fats and oils per person has been declining. The consumption of butterfat per person has been falling even faster. Consumption of fluid milk per head is static in most States. Competition from margarine and other spreads would create chaotic conditions but for State-imposed restrictions. 
The sum total of a limited home market and an over-supplied world market means that, despite the continuation of the Government subvention of $27m per annum for butter and cheese, the equalised return to producers declined from 47.1c per lb butterfat in 1964-65 to an estimated 41.3c for the current year. Over the same period costs have risen by 16i% according to the Bureau of Agricultural Economics index of prices paid by farmers. The net farm income of producers in the dairying industry has suffered severely. 
In attempting to counteract this situation, farmers have made strenuous efforts to improve productivity. No matter how measured, the results are striking. In real terms production per cow or per acre or per man or per dollar have all gone up. The structure of the dairy industry has changed substantially over the last 10 or 15 years. It is clear that the producer bas accepted the productivity challenge posed by rising costs and advancing technology. Farmers who have been able to find capital to invest or reinvest in their farms and those who have been in the fore-front of productivity improvements have been able to maintain or even better their income position. However there are a substantial number of dairy farmers who due to inadequate farm size or capital limitation or to a variety of other intractable problems, have not been able to keep pace with the changes that are going on in the industry. The economic examination of the dairy industry conducted by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in 1964 shows that the average net farm income throughout the industry in Australia over the period surveyed - 1961-62 to 1963-64 - was $2,400. At the time, some 55% of all dairy farmers earned a net farm income of less  than $2,000 per annum. In the manufacturing sector of the industry, that is among those producers who do not have access to the higher priced fluid milk market, the situation was even worse. There is no evidence of improvement in this position in the period since the survey was carried out. 
The industry's problems are aggravated by the fact that there are concentrations of low income producers in certain dairying regions, notably in south-eastern Queensland, northern New South Wales and the south-west of Western Australia, and to a lesser extent, in the south-east of South Australia. There is thus a regional problem as well as an industry problem. The whole economy of these regions is adversely affected. In south-east Queensland and northern New South Wales, the size of farms established late last century or early this century is no longer sufficient under today's conditions. In Western Australia, development has been retarded also by the high cost of clearing land. 
Dairy farmers with small holdings have no cushion of wealth to protect themselves from the impact of the drastic changes through which the industry is going, nor in most cases can they offer sufficient security to enable the farmer to borrow for farm development. Even with the greatest of effort, their holdings are no longer big enough to maintain an adequate standard of living acceptable in the Australian community. Farmers are being forced out of the industry and in many cases, these men have had to sell at sacrifice prices. Faced with this situation there are a number of courses open to the Government and the industry. One way would be to allow economic strangulation to take further toll of marginal dairy farmers. This course would be intolerable. Another way that some have advocated is to give more subsidy, but this would merely produce a situation where more of the increase in subsidy would go to those whose incomes are already adequate and very little to those producers who really need assistance. The third way is to adopt arrangements specifically designed to alleviate the marginal farm problem. 
The States where regional low income problems exist have not been idle. In 1956 Western Australia introduced a dairy farm improvement scheme, followed later by its dairy farm consolidation plan which is still operating. Since the inception of these arrangements, the Western Australian Government has provided rather more than $lm to assist producers in that State. Similarly New South Wales in 1963 introduced a farm build-up scheme. That scheme is available to all rural industries in New South Wales. In respect of dairy farms, the Government of that State has spent about S1.6m for the amalgamation of properties. Queensland also has a number of measures in force which more or less directly benefit the dairy industry, although there is not any dairy reconstruction plan as such operated by that State Government, nor by any State Government other than the 2 that I have mentioned. 
The scheme now offered by the Commonwealth is obviously of much greater magnitude with correspondingly greater potential for dealing with the low income problem that exists in the dairy industry. The objectives of the Commonwealth scheme are twofold: To enable low income dairy farmers who voluntarily wish to do so, to leave the industry and to receive a fair price for their land and improvements; and, after the writing-off of redundant assets, to make the land and useful improvements available to other farmers so as to build up their properties to a viable family farm level and, where possible, diversifying the pattern of land use. The States have been asked to work with the Commonwealth in the implementation of the scheme with moneys provided by the Commonwealth. 
Essentially, the Bill now before the House empowers the making of agreements with States for the operation of the scheme. The Bill specifies certain features that are to be incorporated in any such agreement. First and foremost, there is the need to define a marginal dairy farm for the purposes of the scheme. Here the Bill and the agreement apply simultaneously. Taking them together, a marginal dairy farm is denned as having the following characteristics: 
It must, of course, be a rural property. 
It must have at least some minimum number of cows. It is proposed to use as a minimum 20 lactating cows.. This eliminates those farmers who are merely running a small number of cows as a side-line. It is also the figure that was used as a lower limit in defining a dairy farm for the purposes of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics survey. 
At least half of the gross income of the farm must be derived from the production of milk or cream sold at the manufacturing price. I will have a word more to say about this in a moment. 
In the opinion of the State authority operating the scheme, the farm, if used wholly for dairying or purposes incidental to dairying, is not reasonably capable of producing to a level agreed between the Commonwealth and the State. In order to provide a fairly objective standard, the agreement with Western Australia lays down that this level will be a production of 12,000 lb of butterfat on average per annum. The Commonwealth is prepared within reason to adopt in respect of different States, a standard which may vary from that specified for Western Australia. This is a simple recognition of the fact that the production environment differs in the different States. ' The Commonwealth would be guided largely by the advice of the State itself. In addition, in order to be able to meet changing circumstances in any State or changing cost-price relationships within the industry, provision is made in both the Bill and the Agreement to enable this standard to be amended from time to time with the consent of the Commonwealth and the State concerned. 
These then are the 4 characteristics that define a marginal dairy farm. For the purposes of the scheme, a marginal dairy farm is a rural property running more than 20 lactating cows, and with not less than half the gross income derived from the production of milk or cream valued at the manufactured price, but being one that has an overall production insufficient to provide a reasonable level of income. 1 have already mentioned that in requiring that such a farm have at least half its gross income coming from the sale of milk or cream the Government has laid down that this will be milk or cream valued al the manufacturing price. There is very good reason for this requirement. The scheme is designed essentially to assist the low income farmer in the manufacturing sector of the dairy industry. It is this sector which has been most severely hit by the combination of the low level of export prices for dairy products and rising costs. By contrast, the effects of the cost price squeeze have tended to be alleviated for the whole milk sector by the adjustment of milk prices from time to time. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics survey shows that the average Australian net farm income in the manufacturing sector was S2.001. In the whole milk sector it was just on $3,000. In every State other than Queensland, there is a significantly higher proportion of low income farmers in the manufacturing sector than in the whole milk sector. This is only to be expected when it is recognised that milk going to the fluid milk market is paid at approximately twice the price of milk for manufacturing purposes. 
The adverse situation of farmers in the manufacturing sector is made even worse by the policy that operates in New South Wales whereby, in order to try to maintain their quota entitlements, dairy farmers in the milk zone are virtually compelled to produce excess milk for which the only outlet is manufactured dairy products. This excess milk swells the oversupply situation for butterfat, to the detriment of producers outside the milk zone. The contrasting fortunes of the two sectors of the industry have meant that the small farmer in the fluid milk sector who wanted to quit the industry has, as a general rule, been able to do so without loss. Entitlement io quota in the New South Wales milk zone gives the quota holder an unearned premium wilh a market value at present of $80 to $150 per gallon depending upon location. In other words, a relatively small quota, say 30 gallons, will produce a premium well in excess of a year's net farm income for an average dairy farmer outside of the milk zone, in the manufacturing sector, by contrast, departure from the industry has commonly involved serious financial loss. 
There is, however, 1 important po:nt that must be stressed. Low income producers within the fluid milk sector are eligible to participate in the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme. The possession of a milk quota does not exclude them from participation, nor does mere geographical location. Such dairy farmers will b; subject to exactly the same tests of eligibility as farmers in the manufacturing sector. The only other condition that an applicant must meet who wishes voluntarily to offer his land under the scheme is that he should have been operating the holding for a period of not less than 2 years. In other words he must be a bona fide dairy farmer. The agreement provides that in exceptional cases, such as illness or disability, this condition could be waived. The agreement also provides that if experience shows that some other qualifying period is warranted, the present stipulation can be altered by mutual ministerial consent. 
The next feature mentioned in the Bill is that the agreement must include provision that the outgoing man will receive current market value for his land and structural improvements. The State instrumentality which operates the scheme will not be required to buy the moveable plant or the herd. The outgoing farmer will be able to sell his livestock, machinery and plant on his own account. By ensuring that the man who wishes voluntarily to leave the industry will receive current market value, the scheme will protect him against having to sell his farm at a sacrifice. The outgoing man will thus receive fair value for the capital and effort he has invested over the years. 
It has been suggested to me that there should also be included a retraining scheme for the farmers who decide to leave the industry. At present the Commonwealth offers rural retraining for national servicemen. There is sound justification for providing this facility for young men whose careers have been interrupted by the need to undertake service in the defence forces. It is by no means clear that such an additional benefit should be offered to men who are changing civilian employment. Australians, and particularly Australian farmers, have always taken some measure of pride in their ability to turn their hands to whatever is necessary. At the same time the Government is currently giving attention to the question of vocational training, especially in regard to industrial trade training, and I am willing to look at this question again as experience accrues in the operation of the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme. 
A further feature stipulated in the Bill is that land will not be disposed of for use primarily for dairying unless it is to be so used as part of a rural property that constitutes an economic unit. In the agreement, the minimum level specified for an economic unit exceeds the maximum level for a marginal dairy farm by some significant amount - in the case of Western Australia, 25%. The purpose of this differential is to avoid the risk of bult up farms falling back into the marginal category under the continuing cost-price trends that are pressing on the dairy industry. The maximum level for a marginal dairy farm in Western Aus tralia is, as I have already said, the equivalent of 12,000 lb of butterfat on average per annum. So an economic unit in that State for the purposes of the scheme will be one that produces annually the equivalent of at least 15,000 lb of butterfat. 
The Bill and the Agreement also make provision that, where necessary, the State instrumentality may acquire farms which are larger than a marginal farm, but only if both the State Minister and Commonwealth Minister are satisfied that good reason prevails. I would like to make this matter clear. Where a farm fulfils the definition of a marginal dairy farm, the State instrumentality will have full authority to acquire it should it be offered. Where a farm is producing more than the maximum level set in the State concerned for a marginal dairy farm but less than the minimum of an economic unit, the State instrumentality will be able to acquire it provided the Commonwealth and State Ministers give consent. Where the property is already above the base level for an economic unit, it can be acquired, again with the consent of the State and Commonwealth Ministers, but this consent would be given only in most exceptional circumstances. There is one important observation to be made in this connection. The Agreement sets out clearly that the State authority is not compelled to acquire any particular marginal dairy farm. Since the day to day and case by case responsibilities will be entrusted to the State authorities, they have to be given discretion in respect of the acquisition of marginal dairy farms. The State might wish, for example, to have a suitable purchaser or lessor in prospect. 
I now turn to a most important matter. In making the land available for build-up purposes, the disposal will be made so as to encourage the most practicable and economic use of land with a view to achieving, so far as is consistent with such land use, the diversification of production. The Commonwealth has stated from the inception of its proposals for a dairy farm reconstruction scheme that the twin aims are amalgamation and diversification. There will be instances where the most practicable and economic use of land will be for it to continue in dairying. There will be other cases where it makes sense to divert the land to other forms of rural production altogether. There will be cases where the built-up farms will be suited to mixed farming. There will be other instances, such as in hill country, where probably the best thing that could be done with the land would be to turn it to forestry. The Bill and the Agreement are so drawn that all of these possibilities are catered for. 
Another feature of the Bill is that in disposing of land, the man whose property is being built-up will be able to obtain that land at current market value taking into account the nature of the proposed land use and the system of tenure. It is intended that the farmer who obtains built-up land will only need to pay for those structural improvements that are useful to him. Redundant assets will be written off at Commonwealth expense less any residual value. This requirement that the in-coming farmer will not need to pay for redundant assets is a unique characteristic of the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme. By writing off these superfluous assets, the possibility of the in-coming man being saddled with a useless burden of debt is avoided. As far as the land and the useful assets are concerned, the farmer who takes them up will have the opportunity to pay for them over a spread period. The exact terms and conditions on which repayment will be made will be a matter that in each State the State authority will determine. It will be appreciated that there are two aspects to the scheme. There is a CommonwealthState relationship and there is the relationship between the State or State authority and the producers. 
I have already covered most of the matters of consequence on the latter aspect. To summarise, a marginal dairy farmer wishing to leave the industry will offer his land to the Authority in his State and if approved will receive payment in full as soon as the transaction is completed. The authority will then make the land available in whole or part to another farmer together with those improvements that the farmer indicates will be useful. The land and useful improvements will be sold to him at a price based on current market values in relation to the proposed use of the land. Before making the land available, the authority will ensure that after amalgamation the built-up property will form an economic unit. The man whose property is built-up will receive time to pay, the terms in respect of repayments being those specified by the State authority. The authority will also ensure that, as long as the farmer whose land is built-up owes money to the authority, there will be an undertaking given against fragmentation of the property. 
The ability of the State to extend credit on reasonable terms is dependant on the extent to which the State has to make repayment to the Commonwealth. The Bill lays down that, of the financial assistance to be made available by the Commonwealth, the State will only have to repay half, and that over a period of up to 25 years. In the Agreement there is an option that the State can postpone making repayment of capital to the Commonwealth for an initial period of up to 2 years if it so desires. Thus, by the time repayments are to be made to the Commonwealth, the State can itself be receiving moneys from farmers whose properties have been built-up. In effect the Commonwealth is asking States to cooperate, at no cost to themselves, for the benefit of farmers and of the dairy industry as a whole. 
Interest will bc charged on that half of the money that is repayable to the Commonwealth. A fixed rate of 6% per annum will apply on the funds repayable in respect of drawings and advances made during the four years of the current agreement. This rate is less than the long term bond rate of interest at the present time. Setting a lower rate of interest for the Scheme is consistent with the action taken by the Government to avoid the recent increase in bank interest rates from being applied to rural producers. The particular rate of interest that producers on built-up farms will be charged by the State authority is a matter for each State separately to determine. The Commonwealth's offer is thus a generous one. The State will only have to repvy half of the money and that over a lengthy period and at a favourable rate of interest. The grant portion will be more than sufficient to cover the write-off of redundant assets and any reduction in the value of land because of change in the pattern of land use. 
Also, in both the Bill and the Agreement, the Commonwealth has given the States an assurance against any overall loss falling on State revenue as a result of circumstances beyond the control of the State, and which turn out to be disadvantageous compared with past experience and normal expectation as to factors that affect farmers' incomes. In return, the State would agree to operate the scheme in such a way that, taking into account its experience with other schemes of an analogous nature, and the normal expectations that I have just mentioned, the amounts recovered could be reasonably expected to equal the State's costs of administration and payment of interest and capital to the Commonwealth. This is an equitable bargain between the Commonwealth and States. It means that should the industry suffer a serious setback through forces beyond the control of the State, the State can expect to be protected against any overall loss falling on it by virtue of its co-operation in the Scheme. 
The total sum that the Commonwealth, is prepared to make available over a 4 year period is $2Sm. This sum is not divided up beforehand among States in any set amounts, nor could this be done, since, as I have already stressed, the scheme is a voluntary one. It is thus most difficult for the Commonwealth or any State to predict the rate at which farmers will come forward to offer their land. Instead, the Commonwealth will make the money available as needed by the States up to the total that Parliament is asked to appropriate, namely $25m. The Commonwealth will also make an advance or advances as needed, to any State that requests that this be done, in order that the State will always have funds in hand to operate the Scheme. 
The existing schemes in New South Wales and Western Australia have helped relieve the low income problem in those States. In recognition of this, the Commonwealth is willing to make available supplementary grants to these 2 States from within the total appropriation. Western Australia has requested a grant of $35,000 a year to supplement the moneys that the State is providing through its Dairy Farm Consolidation Plan and this annual sum is written into the Agreement. In the case of New South Wales, if that State seeks a supplementary grant it could make possible the writing off of redundant assets, a feature not presently incorporated in the State scheme. The Commonwealth and State schemes would then be virtually identical as far as the build-up of dairy farms is concerned. The low income problem is not confined however to New South Wales and Western Australia. It is a problem that affects all States. While speaking of the financial assistance which the Commonwealth will accord to the States to operate this scheme, I want to make it quite plain, beyond any doubt, that the period of 4 years for which the $25m is available will be a common period applying to all States, commencing from the first date on which an agreement is signed with any cooperating State. Let me illustrate what I have just said. Should this Bill be enacted into law and receive royal assent on, say, 30th June 1970, and the agreement with Western Australia be signed the same day, then the 4 years will end on 30th June 1974, and no further money will be available to any State out of the present $25m after 30th June 1974, unless it relates to expenditure by a State within that period. 
Clearly the task will not be finished by that date and at an appropriate time the. Government will consider, in the light of the experience gained in the first few years, what further action it should take. In addition, it is no secret that the Government has received and is considering representations for the wider application of the principles underlying the dairy reconstruction scheme, in order to assist other rural industries that are in difficulties. However, it would be unrealistic for the Government to make any decision on these further representations until the Commonwealth has been assured of the co-operation of the States in the reconstruction of the dairy industry. 
Only Western Australia. The arrangements embodied in this Bill and the accompanying agreement represent the full extent of the Commonwealth's offer. At the moment, States other than Western Australia have not yet given their co-operation. In fairness, 1 must say that the Premiers have indicated their support for the principles of the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme. What is needed however, is more than in principle support. During the 2 years that the scheme has been under negotiation, over 5,000 dairy farmers have ceased to operate. There is no valid reason, particularly in the light of the assurance that the States have received against the possibility of losses due to factors beyond their control, why the benefits of the scheme should be delayed or denied to the low income sector. 

 Mr Speaker, this scheme is one that has been sought . by the industry. More than half the dairy farmers in Australia could be eligible to participate. It will improve the health of the industry as a whole. At the same time it will directly assist that sector of the industry whose living standards have been and still are unacceptably low in relation to the high standard of living enjoyed by most people in Australia. It will help alleviate regional and social problems. Above all, this scheme will add strength to the family farms that are the backbone of the dairy industry. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
What the honourable gentleman says about the inspection staff at meat works is quite true. There is a severe shortage of inspectors. They are required to work overtime. In many instances I have not been able to give them their annual leave to which they are entitled because giving it to them would have meant meat works having to close down because they would not be able to operate to the standards that are necessary to meet export requirements. So we have a major problem. We have been desperately trying to recruit more inspectors. We have recruited more, but we seem to be losing them as fast as we recruit them. All I want to tell the honourable gentleman is that this is a matter that gives me great concern and we are doing all we can to try to cope with it. 
In the second part of the question the honourable member asks whether this is the reason for the rejection of certain Australian meat going into the American market, namely, mutton. It is only mutton on which there is a total embargo. In answer lo that part of the question I would say no. This situation has been aggravated by the fact that a large quantity of Australian mutton going onto the United States market has beer rejected. Almost 1 million lb was rejected up until the middle of April. This rejection has been on the ground that the mutton is not meeting the standards laid down under the United States Wholesome Meat Act. lt has been rejected because it has been unclean. Particles of foreign matter have been found in the meat and there have been certain organisms which are objectionable to the United States authorities. 
But I would like to make it clear to the House that our inspection standards are high. They were laid down originally to meet the British requirements. Any talk that the meat is not wholesome or that it contains organisms which arc harmful to human beings is not correct. There has been quite a lot of talk about caseaus lymph adenitis and cysticercus ovis which have been detected. These are not harmful to human beings. However, the United States Administration will not allow any meat with evidence of them to enter the country. The main problem we have with our mutton chains is trying to correlate the viscera with the carcass. Many of our abattoirs are not geared to do this. Yesterday there was a meeting in Canberra of the Meat Industry Advisory Committee in an endeavour to overcome this problem. Frankly, it said that some of the requirements that have been asked of us are almost impossible to meet. But we propose to try to find some sort of compromise between the standards that the United States Department of Agriculture wants and what we are able to prescribe. 1 conclude by saying that I am very conscious of the inspection problem and will do whatever I can to solve it. 
I am not familiar with the committee that has been set up in Tasmania or with any refusal by my Department to supply answers or forward information to it. I assure the honourable gentleman that I will look into the matter immediately. If my Department can help the committee in its inquiry into war service land settlement in Tasmania I will be only too willing to see that this is done. 
There is a complete ban for the time being on the export of mutton to the United States, irrespective of the meat works or the States from which it comes. This matter has been fully discussed at a meeting of the Meat Industry Advisory Committee, and it is hopeful that some abattoirs may be re-issued with licences to export to the United States, but they will have to pass the rigorous examination of my Department and then be recommended to the United States Department of Agriculture, which in turn will inspect the works. I point out that about 20% of our mutton exports go to the United States. However, we export a considerable amount of mutton to other markets in the United Kingdom, Japan, and throughout South and South East Asia. So it does not mean that any of the meat works which formerly exported to the United States will have to close down, but the ban will certainly interfere with their programmes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) and (b), no statistics are available of the quantities of wool sold by private treaty. The following table is based on the published figures of the quantities of shorn wool received by wool selling brokers for sale and the best available estimates of the quantities of shorn wool not handled by brokers. The first category includes some wool brought privately and resold at auction, while the latter category includes a small quantity of wool consigned for sale overseas and a small quantity purchased by Australian textile mills direct from the grower. 
 L would certainly hope that there is no suspension of our meat exports to the United States this year. We have been operating a regulatory system of exports of meat to the US market for 2 years now by the use of the diversification factor. In the first year of the operation of the scheme it was necessary to suspend  exports 2  months prior to the end of the calendar year. However, last year we managed to continue exports right through the year, lt was a little fortuitous in that an extra quota was given towards the end of the year so we were not obliged to cut off any exports. This year the Australian Meat Board is being particularly cautious and has improved the monitoring of meat that is actually being exported. The diversification factor has already been tightened. 
In reply to the honourable member for Maranoa a few weeks ago 1 announced other conditions that were being applied. After June, I think it is. approval will have to be given for all exports to make sure that we do not export in excess of our overall yearly quota. At the moment there is some fear that we may be running ahead of our estimated quantities. If the global amount of meat com-ng into the United States of America exceeds the estimated quota in July, that being the time when he generally looks at the matter, Secretary Hardin is obliged to advise the  President  whether quotas should be triggered. If that does apply there is a roll back of 10% of the quantity that we would be able to get into the United States. I am hopeful that this will not happen. The Australian Meat Board will be taking every measure lo ensure that wc do not exceed our quota. 
It was announced that the Australian wool industry had agreed to set up a wool marketing corporation to lay down standards for the preparation and presentation of the Australian wool clip, to enable interlotting of 1, 2 and 3-bale lots, to handle bulk classing of these lines, and also to have a pooling arrangement for them. This will proceed as already has been announced. It is an orderly wool marketing arrangement with the voluntary consent of all sections of the industry and does not need legislation to enforce it. Therefore there is no need for specific legislation to be brought before the House. The finance that the Commonwealth Government is providing to meet half the cost of interlotting and bulk classing will be provided in the annual appropriations at Budget time to cover these contingencies. 
The honourable member makes the comment that the proposal will advantage brokers. The Commonwealth Government, by providing half the cost of- interlotting and bulk classing, is equally assisting the wool growers. If the Government was not paying half this cost, somebody else would have to pay it, and we generally find that the cost is passed back to the grower. By paying half the cost the Commonwealth will relieve the wool grower of part of his cost. 
I can understand the honourable member's interest in this matter, he being, as he said, an ex-butcher, but I was under the impression that he was a medical practitioner. The standards that have been laid down by the United States Administration regarding imports of meat are the same as have applied with respect to federal registration of abattoirs within the United States. Quite a political debate is ensuing in the United States regarding registration of abattoirs and the general standards of meat preparation in the country. In the United States no meat may pass across State borders unless it comes from abattoirs which have federal registration. It is this provision that has produced the conflict amongst the American States, the meat industry and the United States Government. The American authorities are quite emphatic that they will not allow meat to be imported into the country from abattoirs wilh a standard lower than that required of their own abattoirs seeking federal registration. 
The meat that has been rejected so far by the United States has been rejected because it contained particles of foreign matter. In other words, it was unclean. The meat also contained certain organisms which are objectionable by United States standards. As I have already mentioned in the House, these organisms - caseaus lymph adenitis and cysticercus ovis - are harmless to humans. We have been eating this meat for years in Australia. It is acceptable by British standards. On health grounds I see no reason to object to it, but the American authorities consider it objectionable and they will not allow it to come into the country. That is why for the time being they have placed a temporary ban on all mutton entering America. I am hopeful that Australian abattoirs which are affected by the ban can be brought up to a standard acceptable to the American authorities and that we can improve our inspection procedures so that the objectionable organisms may be excluded from our mutton. 
'Last week I answered a question by the honourable member for Gellibrand on this matter. When he brought this matter to my attention I informed him that I was concerned about the insufficient number of meat inspectors and also the fact that they were unable to take their annual leave because of the acute shortage of meat inspectors. I would like to inform the honourable member that my Department, which is involved very much in this matter, has been in touch with the Public Service Board and has been trying to get some improvements and alterations so that these inspectors can take the annual leave to which they are entitled and so that we might be able to hold the numbers that we are recruiting into the service. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second time. 
The principal object of this Bill is lo amend the Wool Industry Act 1962-67 so as to give effect to new arrangements for the financing of wool research and promotion. The proposed arrangements envisage that the Government will provide a greater share of the funds needed for these activities, as foreshadowed by the Treasurer in the Budget speech last August. In addition, other amendments are proposed which are designed mainly to widen the borrowing powers of the Australian Wool Board in order that the Wool Board can rebuild and renovate the wool stores which are at present placed under its control and to construct and equip integrated wool selling complexes, if this is required by the industry. I think it can be said that this Bill has a twofold purpose. There is no need to labour the point that the wool industry is today facing great difficulties. Wool prices are now at (heir lowest point in more- than 20 years, while costs over the same period have risen very considerably. To quote a frequently used but true expression, the Australian wool industry is caught in a severe cost-price squeeze. 
In saying this, however, let no one think that our great wool industry is on the road to extinction. On the contrary, I firmly believe that with sound planning, the application of modern business techniques and management, combined with the resilience that wool growers have displayed over the years, the present problems can be tackled and, I believe, surmounted. I have used the term 'our great wool industry' and I have used it deliberately. The wool industry is, and will continue to be for many years to come, our biggest single industry. Even at the current extremely low level of wool prices wool still contributes around onequarter of our total export income. This has been only possible because of the remarkable increase in wool production which has been achieved in spite of the plague of droughts which in recent years appear to have reasserted themselves as an inescapable part of the Australian scene; Wool growers are to be ' commended for this great achievement. 
We should never forget that the great prosperity enjoyed by the bulk of Australians has been due in a large measure to the contributions made to the economy as a whole by the wool industry. No one could possibly assert that the development of our economy achieved to date would have been attained without wool providing much of the wherewithal for the imports of essential materials and equipment. Similarly, there is no doubt in my mind that, despite the spectacular growth in our mineral industries, wool's continued contribution to our export earnings is indispensable for our continued development and well being. As well as its continuing prominent role in Australia's export trade, wool growing is an essential component of the rural sector of the economy. Thousands of people rely on the industry either directly or indirectly for their livelihood. Large tracts of inland Australia would be totally unproductive without the woolgrowing industry - the only activity of economic importance for which these areas are suitable. 
The Government fully recognises the significance of the woolgrowing industry not only as an export income earner but also as a vital factor in the economy of the rural areas. For this reason the Government wishes to help the industry in its present difficulties, by relieving it of the greater part of the cost of financing wool research and promotion - 2 activities which are of great importance in maintaining wool's position as the leading apparel fibre in the face of ever-increasing competition from synthetic fibres. This assistance is the first of the two purposes of this Bill which I mentioned earlier. The second purpose is to help the industry to help itself in the longer term by cutting some of its heavy cost items. An area where substantial savings can be achieved is in the handling of wool. Studies conducted by the Australian Wool Board show that very significant cost reductions are possible in the handling and processing of wool for sale by the establishment, on a national scale, of integrated wool selling complexes. For legal reasons these complexes are referred to in the Bill as 'wool selling centres'. 
I think it can be said that all sections of the wool trade agree that the establishment of well laid out wool complexes incorporating modern mechanised handling equipment for common use by wool selling brokers for the speedy movement of wool into store, within store and out of store to the ship can introduce great efficiency into the wool selling and handling procedure. Further, such complexes could also provide a vehicle for the early introduction of other beneficial innovations such as the pre-sale sampling and testing of wool, that is, objective measurement, and the streamlining of bulkclassing operations. For a number of reasons the quickest way of making wool selling complexes a reality could be for the Australian Wool Board to undertake the task of constructing and equipping them. If the Wool Board is put in a position to borrow for the purpose of carrying out this task this may overcome some of the financial obstacles which are militating against the early establishment of such complexes. I would like to stress, however, that the Wool Board will only take on this role if the wool trade, including the selling brokers, wishes the Board to do so. 
I now turn to the main provisions of the Bill. Provision is made in the Bill for increasing the Government's contribution for wool research and promotion from the present level of $14m a year to an average of S27m during the 3-year period commencing on 1st July 1970. At the same time the levy paid by woolgrowers under the Wool Tax Acts 1964 will be reduced, by regulation, from  2%  to 1% of the gross proceeds from the sale of shorn wool. On present prices this will mean a saving to wool growers of about SI. 20 per bale. I should mention that due to the overlapping of rostered wool auction sales into July of this year, it has proved necessary to set the commencing date for the reduction in the levy at 1st August 1970. In keeping with its greatly increased contribution for wool research and promotion, a number of changes are proposed to give the Government a greater say in the administration of these activities and these are provided for in the Bill. 
In the first instance, the annual apportionment of the money contributed by wool growers and the Commonwealth Government for wool research and promotion will be determined by the Minister for Primary Industry after consultation with the Australian Wool Industry Conference. At present the apportionment of the money is made by the Minister on the recommendation of the Conference. Secondly, the Bill provides for some changes in the manner of selecting the  Chairman  and some of the members of the Australian Wool Board. It is proposed that in future the  Chairman  of the Wool Board will be appointed by the Minister for Primary Industry after consultation with the Board itself. At present the  Chairman  of the Board is appointed by the Minister on the nomination of the Board. The Bill also provides for the  Chairman  of the Board to have a deliberative vote as well as a casting vote. Currently the  Chairman  has only a casting vote. It is furthermore proposed that the 3 members with special qualifications on the Board will in future be appointed by the Minister for Primary Industry after consultation with the Wool Industry Conference. At present these members are appointed by the Minister from a panel of names submitted by the Conference. 
While the Australian Wool Board with its expertise and experience will continue to be responsible for the promotion programme, the measures which I have just outlined will provide greater safeguards for the public interest in the funds involved without disturbing the special relationship which exists between the Wool Board and the International Wool Secretariat on the matter of promotion. Thirdly, it is proposed to amend the arrangements for the control of wool research funds. The Bill provides for the deletion of the stipulation in the Act that the Minister for Primary Industry can approve the expenditure of money from the Wool Research Trust Fund only on the recommendation of the Australian Wool Board. Insofar as the allocations for individual recipients of grants from the Fund for scientific and economic research are concerned, the Wool Board will retain the power to recommend grants for recipients other than the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. These other recipients include mainly State Departments of Agriculture and universities. Grants from the Fund to the CSIRO will in future be made by the Minister for Primary Industry after consultation with the Minister for Education and Science. The Minister for Primary Industry himself will determine the grants to be made to the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. 
Nevertheless the Wool Board will still retain a meaningful role in regard to the research programmes of the CSIRO and the BAE. In relation to these 2 bodies it will be a function of the Board to advise the Minister for Primary Industry on the general scope of their research programmes in relation to the wool industry's problems. In doing this the Board will be expected to advise on the emphasis to be placed on the various aspects of the programmes and to make an assessment of the potential benefits of the programmes, taking into account problems of immediate significance as well as those which will have an important bearing on the future prosperity of the industry. It will not, however, be the function of the Wool Board, as at present, to recommend allocations from the Fund for the CSIRO and the BAE, nor will the Board be concerned with the management of funds allocated to these two bodies. To enable the Wool Board to make a full assessment of the CSIRO wool production and wool textile research programmes, the Board will be provided with the respective programme budgets along with the reports on the work carried out in the previous year. The form of these reports will be agreed upon between the CSIRO and the Wool Board, but the Minister for Primary Industry may also ask for special reports from the CSIRO on any particular matter. 
For the wool production research programme this will cover the avenues of application as well as the areas of research. Further, in order to permit the Wool Board to examine the CSIRO sheep and wool research programmes in total, information will be provided to the Board concerning the CSIRO research programme financed from other sources which is clearly related to industry problems. In addition, provision will be made for the Board and any committee which it may establish to visit appropriate wool production and wool textile research laboratories of the CSIRO from time to time. As far as the capital items required by the CSIRO for wool production and textile research to be financed from the Fund are concerned, the Minister for Primary Industry will refer these to the Board for advice where appropriate. In regard to the BAE it, too, will provide to the Wool Board all relevant information so that the Board can advise on its economic research programme. It is proposed that the CSIRO and the BAE will have freedom in the management of their research programmes within their respective allocations from the Fund. It will be incumbent, however, on these two bodies to take due note of any views which are conveyed by the Wool Board. The Australian Wool Board in dealing with the research proposals of the State Departments of Agriculture will be obliged to consult with these Departments at least once a year on their programmes. 
In view of the changed role of the Australian Wool Board in relation to wool research it is no longer necessary for the Board to maintain its present 2 statutory research advisory committees, namely, the 
Wool Production Research Advisory Committee and the Wool Textile Research Advisory Committee. Accordingly the Bill provides for their abolition. However, the amending legislation has been drafted in such a way as to enable the Board to appoint research committees to assist it in its work if necessary. Opportunity has also been taken to provide in the Bill for the abolition of the provision in the Act for a statutory Wool Marketing Committee. This has been recommended by the Wool Board and endorsed by the Wool Industry Conference. Provision was originally made for this Committee to assist the Wool Board in its marketing investigation work. However, it has been found that it is no longer necessary to have a statutory committee of this nature. The establishment of the Wool Marketing Corporation will relieve the Board of a good deal of its marketing investigation work. However, the amending legislation will still enable the Wool Board to appoint ad hoc marketing committees should this prove necessary. 
Finally I turn to the provisions of the Bill intended to widen the borrowing powers of the Wool Board to permit the Board to borrow money for the rebuilding and renovation of its existing wool stores and for the possible establishment of integrated wool selling centres, as well as to pledge its assets for such borrowings. The Wool Board has under its control some 280 wool stores which are a legacy of the wool purchasing arrangement between Australia and the United Kingdom which operated during the last World War. These stores are vested in the Wool Board under the Wool Industry Act which obliges the Board to maintain the stores in a satisfactory condition and the stores may be re-acquired by the Government in the event of a national emergency. 
The majority of the stores are about 30 years old. Accelerated deterioration of these stores and rising maintenance costs have placed the Board in a position where, to fulfil its obligations under the Act in respect of the stores, substantial expenditure is essential. A thorough study by the Board indicates that restoration of these buildings to their original condition is no longer an an economic proposition. Accordingly the Wool Board would like to undertake a major reconstruction programme over the 5 years 1970-71 to 1974-75. The programme calls for the rebuilding of a substantial number of stores in line with modern building standards and practices and the complete renovation of others. A study commissioned by the Board shows that the proposed programme is a sound commercial proposition and the additional income derived by way of rental from the stores will augment the moneys available for wool promotion and thus benefit woolgrowers generally. Funds of the order required for the stores reconstruction programme arc not available from the Board's present sources of income. As the Wool Industry Act now stands the Board can borrow only for temporary shortfalls in wool promotion funds and for the activities of the Australian Wool Testing Authority. Hence the provision in the Bill to enable the Board to borrow also for the purpose of reconstructing its wool stores. 
As I mentioned earlier, one of the areas offering woolgrowers considerable potential for cost savings is the handling of wool and in this respect the construction of integrated wool selling complexes holds considerable promise. To facilitate early establishment of such complexes, the Bill contains explicit provisions to empower the Wool Board to borrow money for the financing and/or the construction and equipping of the complexes. The provision will enable the Board to construct and equip wool complexes which it would then lease to selling brokers and other interests, or alternatively the Board will make the finance available for a commercial developer to undertake this task. What role the Wool Board may play in this regard is, however, a matter which will be decided by the industry. In relation to the proposed borrowing powers for the reconstruction of the existing wool stores and for the establishment of intregrated wool selling complexes, any borrowings under this power will require the approval of the Minister for Primary Industry with the concurrence of the Treasurer. Opportunity has also been taken to bring the existing borrowing powers of the Board in relation to the Australian Wool Testing Authority into line with those for wool stores and complexes. 
The amendments which are proposed under this Bill come at a time when the woolgrowing industry is facing difficult times. The whole situation of the industry is being studied as a matter of urgency by the Government and in this regard the Government will be assisted by the findings of the special Advisory Committee of the Australian Wool Board. Meanwhile the increased Government contribution for wool research and promotion will bring some relief to woolgrowers and will also ensure that these activities essential to the maintenance of the competitive position of wool will continue undiminished. Finally the provision which can open the way for cutting, handling and selling costs by the establishment of integrated wool selling complexes provides the industry with a new means of help itself. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
The honourable member for Franklin did speak yesterday during the Grievance debate. He presented a catalogue of statements made and events that have occurred over the last 6 months aimed at trying to resolve the industry's wish to have an apple stabilisation scheme. He was critical of the delay that has taken place. Last December the  Chairman  of the Austraiian Apple and Pear Board saw me and asked whether I would have a conference with the industry to see whether we could negotiate a stabilisation scheme. I informed him that 1 thought the most appropriate time for such a discussion would be after I had received information from the survey into the apple industry being carried out by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. For a series of reasons this survey has not been completed and therefore I had not been able to submit that report to the industry. 
In the meantime officers of my Department have been working with industry representatives to iron out any difficulties they can see in the plan that is to be submitted to me. I am told that the survey of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics is now completed, but it will take a little while to put it in documentary form. In the meantime the Bureau has prepared another paper for me containing new evidence and information relating to the industry resulting from the survey. I have forwarded this information to the  Chairman  of the Apple and Pear Board and have suggested that there should be a meeting of officers of my Department and industry representatives to review these matters. This meeting has been set down for next Tuesday in Melbourne. At that meeting I will be able to provide them also with the information I have received from the survey. I hope I will be able to give them a preliminary document in the very near future. The final report will take a little while to publish. 
I am aware that the honourable member for Franklin and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition might feel that there has been some delay in doing this, but I want to assure them that the Government has treated this as a matter of urgency. I have no wish to act promptly and boldly in order to get 5 minutes of approbation only to have the scheme rejected by sections of the industry or by the Commonwealth and State governments. Deep and detailed consideration of all the information available is required. An apple stabilisation scheme is not easy to implement. There are many complications. Different conditions apply to the industry in different parts of Australia. There is a wide variety of apples. There are problems in the export and sale of apples. All of these things have to be taken into consideration. 1 hope that when these matters are resolved I can place before the Government a scheme which will be acceptable. 
It is true that there is now no dried vine fruits stabilisation scheme, the growers having failed to vote in sufficient numbers to support the scheme. However, there are in existence funds under the old stabilisation scheme relating to currants, sultanas and raisins. The credits in those funds will be returned to producers. Under the old scheme there was a guaranteed price.  If  the price went more than S20 above the guaranteed price, additional money was put' into the fund. At present there :s $216,000 in the f-nd relating to currants, about $100,000 in the raisins fund and abo u S500.000 in the sultanas fund. With regard to the currants fund, action is being taken to determine who is entitled to a refund. The refund will be paid as soon as possible. As for the other funds, action is being taken to final se the accounts. When this has been clone the amounts remaining in the funds will be returned to the appropriate producers. 
I have expressed on a number of occasions - and so too have other members of the Government - very great concern about the present position of the Australian wool industry because of the low prices and increasing costs. I think all Australians should be conscious of this very serious problem because the wool industry is still our single major export earner and provides a livelihood for many hundreds of thousands of people in areas that could not be otherwise usefully employed. The Australian Wool Industry Conference and the other 2 major wool industry organisations have expressed support for a single statutory wool marketing authority. They have not detailed what they actually mean by this. It has been the thought of people in the Government that the Wool Advisory Committee, which is at present sitting and will be making recommendations to the Commonwealth Government, might be examining this question and bringing forward proposals. 
I addressed this Committee when it was first formed some 6 weeks ago and one of the things I asked it to do as a matter of urgency was to bring forward a report as to the reasons for the present low price of wool and to make other suggestions of a temporary nature which might alleviate the serious position. I said to the Committee that I hoped it would report to me by the end of May, if not sooner. I have not yet received a report. I believe that the Committee is meeting next weekend and I hope that I will receive a report very shortly after that. I hope that the report will indicate the thoughts of the Committee on the present market situation and the immediate future outlook for wool. I also hope that the Committee will bring forward some other ideas that either it or the Government will be able to consider so that urgent action may be taken. I consider that the question of action for the wool industry is a matter of very serious urgency. 
Provision for the operation of the wheat quota delivery scheme is made in Stare legislation and there is provision in that legislation for the payment for readily saleable over quota wheat provided that wheat is called for by the Australian Wheat Board, is sold and paid for in full before 30th September in that season, lt is up to the Wheat Board to determine what the rate of payment is if it is sold. However, 1 took the honourable member's question to relate to the next season - that is, op until 1971. All States operate under legislation on a  permanent  basis except New South Wales which is operating on a year-to-year basis. 1 would imagine that New South Wales will carry on the same form of legislation that it has had. In this case there will be provision for readily saleable over quota wheat. If it is sold and paid for in a year then it is not taken into account in the following season's quota. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A scheme to control egg production by imposing a levy on hens kept by individual producers in excess of established quotas was put to the February meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council. The scheme, while having the support in principle of major industry organisations. had not been put to a referendum of Australian egg producers. A provision in the scheme was that it should not be implemented until it had been approved by a poll of producers. 
Yes. 
When these proposals were placed before the Agricultural Council, State Ministers agreed that the levy recommended by the industry could be imposed o'nly by the Commonwealth. The Ministers considered however that if the proposed levy system were imposed by the Comomnwealth it would certainly be successfully challenged on the grounds that legislation to limit production was beyond the constitutional powers of the Commonwealth. 
See (6). 
Yes. 
and (7) The Government is concerned at the problem of over-production in the egg industry and would support any constitutional scheme acceptable to the majority of producers aimed at controlling production. However the Commonwealth has no power to legislate to control production. This is one of the sovereign rights of the States. 
Dried Fruits (Question ,x. 703) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The guaranteed prices for the season 1967 for the varieties covered by the Dried Vine Fruits Stabilisation Scheme were the cost of production per ton for each variety in that season less JIO. The cost of production for each variety was derived for the first season of the plan (1964) from the results of a Bureau of Agricultural Economics survey of farm operations by specialist dried vine fruit, growers in Sunraysia. These cost of production figures were adjusted for subsequent seasons (including the 1967 season) to take account of changes in costs as estimated by the cost index method. 
and (3) Cost of production and hence guaranteed price were based on costs on the farm, not on returns. In any event, the farm survey conducted by the Bureau from which the cost of production figure was derived was confined to specialist growers in the Sunraysia district who were concentrating only on the production of grapes for drying and delivery to packing houses. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Marginal Dairy Farms Agreement Bill 1970 was introduced on 14th May. The legislation empowers die Commonwealth to make agreements with the Stales for the operation of the Marginal Dairy Farms Reconstruction Scheme. The agreement that the Commonwealth proposes to enter into with Western Australia was tabled wilh the Bill. Given Parliamentary approval it is intended that the Agreement should be signed and come into force immediately the Bill receives the Royal Assent. 
The form of assistance available to dairy farmers under the Scheme is outlined in my Second Read. ug speech. When the Scheme bec "ici operative wide publicity will be given to its details to the procedures to be followed by intending participants. 
Papua and New Guinea: Common Law Rights (o Damages (Question No. 974) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of registered merino studs in Australia in each year during the period 1960 to 1968 was: 
Statistics for 1969 and 1970 arc not yet available. The substantial increase in 1967 in the number of studs registered was due to a change in the requirements of the Australian Association of Stud Merino Breeders for registration of a merino stud. The Association's new rules allowed some studs previously precluded from registration to enter the register. 
No published information is available on the extent of non-Australian ownership of merino stud properties in Australia. However, the Australian Association of Stud Merino Breeders has advised that, to the best of ils knowledge, the great majority of Australian merino studs arc wholly owned by Australians. 
and (4) Very little information is available about foreign participants in Australian stud merino breeding enterprises, lt is not possible, therefore, to comment on the other activities of the foreign undertakings concerned or on the outcome of a hypothetical situation in which they might bc involved. 
in reply - I shall take about I minute to answer 2 matters. One was raised by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the other was raised by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  Firstly, I want to thank the House for the support that it has given to the Bill. I have had a little difficulty in explaining it and selling it to the States for a period of  2t  years. At last Western Australia has accepted it. Tasmania has informed us that it will accept it. 1 hope to be able to negotiate with other States to overcome their problems. The honourable member for Angas referred to the problem of the equalisation of milk and manufacturing products within the region of Adelaide. I can understand this problem because the provisions whereby at least 50% of the income must come from milk sold at manufacturing prices would preclude these people from participating in the scheme. However, i think that consultation and negotiation between the South Australian Government and the Commonwealth might: be able to clear up this matter. 
The honourable member for Dawson asked why we let imported cheese come into this country. Naturally I would bc very happy if no imported cheese came into the country, thus allowing a bigger market for our own cheese. There is a standard routine for giving protection to Australian industries. The dairying industry has made an application to the Tariff Board to have a higher duty placed on the importation of such cheese. The Tariff Board has not recommended in favour of such action. We have our international trade obligations under the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. We have an arrangement to import a certain quantity of New Zealand cheese. We must realise that principally we are an exporter of cheese. For the year 1967-68 we exported 34,000 tons of cheese and imported 5,000 tons, mainly fancy cheese. One can understand the implications that there could be if a complete embargo were placed on imported cheese. Trade is a 2-way business and people can retaliate to our detriment if the matter is not handled carefully. With those few remarks I thank honourable members for the support that they have given to this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure before the debate on this Bill is resumed. 1 would like to suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Dairying Industry Levy Collection Bill, the Dairying Industry Equalisation Bill, the Dairying Industry Equalisation Legislation Referendum Bill, the Dairying Industry Bill and the Processed Milk Products Bounty Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each Bill at the conclusion of the debate. Therefore, I suggest,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 6 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I am aware of statements emanating in the last few days from the International Wool Textile Organisation to the effect that it opposes very strongly any alteration to the present auction system. I do not think it is quite right, however, to interpret a proposal for a single marketing authority as abandoning the auction system. The details of what is meant by the industry in referring to a Single marketing authority have not been spelt out. I would not think that the industry interprets this as altering the present auction system. The single marketing authority may supplement or strengthen the present system but at this stage 1 certainly would nol think that that means abandoning the auction system. I am very conscious of the importance of harmonising with the wishes of wool users. They are the customers and their wishes must be given very important consideration. However, when examining their expressions of opinion and those of others one must bear in mind that they are arguing from the viewpoint of their own interest and one must try to make a decision which is to the overall good of the industry, taking all sections of it into consideration. 
I am conscious of the concern being expressed by pea producers in Tasmania. The honourable member recently led a deputation of Tasmanian Labor Party members to me to explain the serious situation in the pea industry in that State. He has asked whether the Government will consider extending devaluation compensation to help to alleviate the problem in the pea industry. All I can say is that such a step would set a precedent which might lead to other industries seeking similar consideration on the grounds that their situations were brought about by devaluation of sterling. The principle which the Government has accepted and followed is that compensation payments will be made to industries which can demonstrate that their plight is the unavoidable result of devaluation. But I would think that if an industry has a serious problem it must be looked at in some way other than the provision of devaluation compensation. 
I can well understand the honourable member for Moore suggesting that wheat in Western Australia is readily saleable and particularly to this market. However. I  th;-1-  producers in all other States could equally argue that their wheat was readily saleable if it was not sold from other States also. It would be quite unfair for me to ask the Australian Wheat Board to consider Western Australian wheat in this light. The provisions for over-quota readily saleable wheat were in relation to special types of wheat such as high protein or special biscuit type wheats where there was insufficient production to meet the market demand. If people had this overquota wheat on their farms or had delivered it without payment and it was called up by the Wheat Board and sold and paid for within that period then they would get a first advance and it would be taken into that year's quota pool. In the case of readily saleable Western Australian wheat and the sales to Mainland China, mentioned by the honourable member, these sales are made on terms over a period of 12 months and in that case it would not be fully payable within the season. Therefore, I do not think it would be so important because it would then have to be taken into consideration in the individual quotas for the ensuing season. 
 If the principle of wind sorting chaff from grain applies, we have certainly seen it in the last 5 minutes where the chaff is on that side of the House and the grain is on this side. We have bad a wide ranging debate this afternoon and tonight on 2 minor amendments to the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill. I recall that when there was a really important Bill before this House 2- years ago which was to re-introduce the wheat industry stabilisation scheme for a further 5 years and introduce new principles - it was quite a momentous Bill for the Australian wheat industry - we had only one speaker from the Opposition. Today because there are great difficulties in the wheat industry and great strains and stresses on all those involved with il. the Australian Labor Party now thinks it had better get on the band wagon and start expressing a point of view. That is about all I can say for it. lt is a point of view hut certainly nothing very constructive has come out of it. 
At the beginning I would like to also extend my congratulations to the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  who took the opportunity to make this Bill the occasion for his maiden speech. It was a very good speech. It was well prepared and deeply considered. I appreciated the fact that although the honourable member comes from a metropolitan seat and did noi have to get involved in wheat industry affairs he decided to apply his mind to the subject and I thought he made  a  very constructive speech. I look forward to him adding to the debates on the wheat industry problems in this House. 
The wheat industry is going through an extremely distressing period - a period of production surplus to what we can dispose of. It is a problem that is not unique to Australia. This problem is facing all the major grain producing countries. It is a problem that has been brought on because of improved technology and better management of wheat and other grain production in the world. 
It is easy for people to come in now, in some cases with hindsight, and try to be wise and criticise what people might have done. I certainly receive my share of criticism but it is my lot to have to try to do what I can. But I do not mind criticism. I think one of the elements of democracy is that everyone has to be criticised. But I find it rather unfortunate when criticism is levelled at the men in the wheat industry who have battled to try to find answers to their problems. The most fortunate thing that every wheat grower in this country can say is that he belongs to an industry which is well organised and well united. The wheat industry has leaders of capacity who are prepared to get out and give leadership although in many cases this is most unpalatable and most unpleasant for them to have to do. But just at this time of crisis the wheat industry has been able to produce men of great substance to give this sort of leadership. I sometimes feel very sad that the wool industry is not as united as the wheat industry in the moments of crisis that it is going through at the moment. If there had not been the co-operation of the Australian wheat industry we would never have been able to introduce a new stabilisation scheme and we would never have been able to introduce some form of discipline over production. If we have a disunited industry, industry divided by States there would be little likelihood of getting the support of the 6 State governments which is absolutely vital if we are to have a stabilisation scheme or some form of quota deliveries. We could not even maintain an Australian wheat board without the unanimous co-operation of the State governments. But if the industry is divided the States will go with those sections of the industry which express a point of view. So I say that it is to the great credit of the wheat industry that it has been able to come to terms with itself and resolve issues which are extremely difficult because circumstances vary from State to State; and in coming to a compromise solution it means that wheat industry leaders and sections of the wheat industry have to recognise the problems of each other. I take this opportunity of paying my tribute- 
I wish the honourable member would not interrupt me when I am talking about the Australian Wheat Board. I am not delving into Labor Party politics. The honourable member can save that for afterwards. I want to take this opportunity of paying a tribute to the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation and the Australian Wheat Board which have done a magnificent management job in helping to organise the supplies and the sales of Australian wheat overseas. There is no wheat organisation in the world that can compare with the Australian Wheat Board for its orderly method of management and disposal of wheat. It is keeping up to date with the latest facilities for handling and disposing of wheat. 
I mentioned earlier that there has to be co-operation within the industry and between States if we are to achieve any sort of national marketing body or national stabilisation scheme. I recall 2 years ago when I had the responsibility of negotiating a new stabilisation scheme. It fell at a time when the formula which had been used for determining the cost of production produced a rather distorted figure, which put undue burdens on the consumer and on the Commonwealth Government to meet the guaranteed part which is exported. It was distorted mainly because of the rapid increase in land values during the survey period. In the course of negotiations - we had to abandon the old cost of production formula - the price for the guarantee was reduced by 22c which naturally caused a lot of concern for sections of the Australian wheat industry. 
The greatest concern and opposition were: expressed by those in Victoria who felt that the Commonwealth Government was acting rather meanly and unreasonably. I went there and explained that the basis of our guaranteed price was determined on the new International Grains Arrangement price which offered a guarantee of about SI. 40 per bushel. This imposed only a slight obligation on the Commonwealth Government in the first  ear but as costs went up in this country the burden would increase. In the first year of the stabilisation scheme, as then proposed, and on the figures on which we were calculating, it would impose a burden of S2m and the total obligation during the 5-year period would be $68m Of course, the International Grains Arrangement prices have not held. They have declined and for the first year of the new stabilisation scheme the Commonwealth will have to find no' S2m but over S30m. The contingent liability as we see it if the present pries continues for the 5-year period will he SI 70m as against an initial commitment of S68m. If the price should deteriorate lower than the eve rage price for this season then the comitment will hecome even greater. Surely nobody san say that the Commonwealth has been unreasonable or niggardly in i s approach to helping stabilise the returns and in giving a .secure return to producers in this country. 
Fortunately the Victorian Government accepted the stabilisation proposals and Bills could be introduced into this Parliament and Stale parliaments to ensure a continuation of it. Following the negotiation of the stabilisation scheme it became perfectly obvious thai we were heading for a major crisis because we were producing more than wc could dispose of and putting an abnormal strain on our storage facilities. Carrying larger stocks meant a greater burden was being placed on the industry through storage costs and interest charges. So the industry again of its own volition, recognising the danger signals, came forward wilh a quota delivery scheme, lt was a scheme in which the growers asked the Commonwealth to underwrite the determined amount which they suggested should be delivered for that season - thai was 357 million bushels - requiring a Commonwealth guarantee to the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank of $440m in the first year. The Commonwealth accepted it in total; there was no equivocation whatsoever. But it accepted it on the condition that the scheme would work and to make the scheme work would need the support of the wheat industry organisations throughout Austra.ia and the support of all State governments, they having the responsibility of implementing the quota scheme. The Commonwealth had no jurisdiction in this field whatsoever. The Constitution does no: give the Commonwealth any power in this area and it remains one of the sovereign rights of the States to control production and to determine prices. 
Within a period of 6 weeks we had the acceptance of the entire industry, all State governments and the Commonwealth Government, to the largest orderly marketing arrangement that this country had  ever  seen, which imposed a discipline on  wheat  growers right across the country. Nobody likes a discipline, lt means that a ce,  lain  amount of hardship or lowering of incomes affects everybody. But the industry faced up to it. particularly the leaders who went out and sold the story to the industry, attending meeting after meeting, being lampooned, bashed and criticise.!. They kept diligently at their job. realising the importance of having the arrangement accepted because without it there  would  have been ultimately absolute chaos and ruin in the industry. These men accepted the calf. They had the dedication and  sense  of responsibility to see that this just had ;o be done and they took action and did  it.  That is why I do not accept anybody criticising them. 
They did an outstanding job. There may be small areas of criticism; nothing is ever perfect in this world. One can always be wiser with a little hindsight and experience in matters. Surely, there will bc anomalies and distortions in a quota delivery scheme which endeavours  to  determine a just and fair apportionment lo growers, lt is almost an impossible task, but the industry laid down a formula  as  to how it should he done and the Slate governments generally accepted the formula of each industry organisation in the various States. With the first year's experience I hope they can overcome these difficulties but one can have no wide ranging principle because the circumstances of every individual vary so much. There can be 2 people with small production whose economic circumstances are completely different. One might have diversified farming interests of which wheat might only be a small part. He could have cattle or sheep producing a major part of his income. Of course, production efficiency varies very much from area to area in Australia. Some areas are high yielding while others are low yielding. In many parts of Australia seasonal circumstances vary enormously and we have to take a production average over years to determine what a grower's quota is. To take it on a previous set period does not necessarily produce a just calculation. These are difficulties that must be accepted and we must try to iron them out. 
It is all right for people to get on an emotional issue and say that not enough is being done for the small man or the traditional wheat grower. The whole object of this exercise was to try to protect the small man, to try to protect the traditional wheat grower, the man who year in and year out over decades has been nothing more than a wheat grower. There are areas in Australia such as the Mallee and Wimmera districts and parts of Western Australia where farmers do nothing else but grow wheat. They have not the opportunity to diversify into other types of production and that is why we say the traditional grower needs a degree of protection. 
Certainly the small man needs protection. If economic forces are permitted to run wild only the strong will survive and the small men many of whom are traditional producers will be crushed out of business. These are the people we are trying to protect. I believe we can now see daylight in our wheat situation which seemed almost hopeless 12 months ago. With the restraints that are now being applied in other major wheat producing countries such as Canada and the United States of America the calculations are that in 2 years time we will see the world's stockpiles being reduced. I am optimistic enough to believe we will not need much more cut back of Australia's present quota. If we can continue to sell the quantity of wheat the Wheat Board is expected to sell this season I think we can stabilise on a good sound industry in this country. The industry is important to this country because it earns export income but especially because it has decentralising features and provides income for many rural centres of Australia. 
I mentioned that the Commonwealth had an obligation to provide S440m in the first year. This has meant an advance of $1.18 to the wheat industry, the additional 8c being for Wheat Board charges. This year the quota was reviewed again in the light of stock holding and in the light of our market potential. The Wheat Board decided that the quota figure ought to be 318 million bushels, requiring a Commonwealth guarantee of $407m. We again guaranteed that amount but we guaranteed it against the background that there was still an outstanding debt from the previous season of $250m. Special legislation had to be brought into this House last season to allow carryon finance to the central bank so that the wheat industry could continue to get this advance money. But the $407m that we are offering for the next season is an advance of $1.28 a bushel. In this case 18c goes towards the Wheat Board's management expenses. The 10c increase is mainly brought about because of the interest charges on that wheat and the high cost of storing and handling it and keeping it free from rodents and insects. So people who think that this Government has not been sympathetic and understanding to the problems of the wheat industry should look at the financial implications for the Commonwealth to understand clearly the contribution that we have made. 
There has been some mention here today of black market wheat. That is the common name given to wheat which is being traded across borders under the protection of section 92. Wheat sold within a State is completely illegal and action can be taken and will be taken by the Australian Wheat Board against anybody who does this. I cannot help replying to the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  who keeps harping on this subject and claiming that extravagant amounts are being traded across borders. He quoted figures of 30 million to 50 million bushels. In answer to a question asked by him or one of his colleagues in this House, I said that the domestic consumption of stock feed wheat ranged between 16 million and 28 million bushels. I was not quite right in those figures. Actually, 16 million bushels is the average; it ranges from 9 million to 28 million. But never did I suggest that 28 million bushels of wheat was likely to be traded across the border. I said that his figures were stupid, and 1 still say they are stupid. The facts are tha: last year before c introduced the quota scheme there were approximate!) 9.7 million bushels of wheat sold through the Wheal Board for stock feed purposes. This was before there was the great temptation to dispose of overquota wheat by selling il across the border. This year for the first 5) months the Wheat' Board is only 400.000 bushels behind the amount il sold the previous year, and it ex per ti within this 12-month period to sell between 8 million and 9 million bushels. The actual sales of wheat to millers this year are up on last year. So anybody who says thai the trading across the border, unprincipled as i: is. i.s ruining our stabilisation scheme is not facing the facts. lt is easy for the honourable member for Riverina to keep saying that there should be a payment on over-quota wheat, but he says this against the wishes of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation which has firmly laid down the principle that there should be no payment on over-quota wheat. lt is quite elementary rh.it if a payment is made i: sabotages the whole objective of the quota scheme. The second point I would like to make is that what the honourable member for Riverina said, and I really find it difficult to understand why he said it, is also against the principles of the Australian Labor Party which were enunciated bv the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  I do not know why he wants to continue harping on this subject. He is opposing and defying his own Party's principles, and he is treating the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation with contempt. 
The Australian Labor Party has moved an amentment, and I would like to speak to it for a few moments. The amendment is as follows: the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to provide for a one-price scheme for home consumption and export wheat, being a price which will return to the grower SI. 48 f.o.r. per bushel which is equivalent to a guaranteed price nf $1.51) f.o.b. per bushel for exports up to a maximum of 200 million bushels . . . 
I believe this amendment is similar to the amendment which was introduced by the honourable member for Dawson at the time of the debate on the wheat stabilisation scheme. So my argument against this amendment will be much the same as .fiat which applied at the time of that discussion. The first thing I want to say i.s (hat this amendment is contrary to what the wheat industry has put up to the Government, lt again shows that the Labor Party is saying to the wheat industry that it knows how to manage its affairs better than the members of the industry do. What this really means i.s that there will be a much heavier obligation on the Commonwealth Treasury to provide money and a lessee obligation on the consumer. Il has been one of the principles of stabilisation schemes in Australia that the consumer of Australian goods should pay a higher price or at least a price hearing a relationship to the domestic cost. We have a butter stabilisation scheme. We have a sugar industry stabilisation scheme. Without the high domestic price contained in the dairy industry for butter and cheese, or in the sugar industry for sugar sold here, they would be absolutely disastrous, lt is the money received from the high domestic prices that really supports these industries. 
In the dairy industry there is an enormous taxpayer contribution through the Treasury, bill (here is also a very large consumer contribution. What we have done in this stabilisation scheme is to make the consumer pay a small amount. The amount is insignificant as far as the consumer is concerned. The price was raised as against the previous stabilisation scheme by 54 c. That is an increase of .2 cents on a 2 lb loaf of bread. The price would have to he increased by 33c lo make a lc difference on a loaf of bread. Reducing the price would mean that the wheat industry would get S8.5m per annum less or S42.5ni less over a 5-year period, lt means that the taxpayer's contribution will go up by S(&gt;5m over the 5-year period and the taxpayers will be obliged lo pay 240m in this 5- year period instead of SI 75m. So is there any reason for the Opposition's complaint as to the obligation on the Treasury to pay these funds, or is it just hoping and expecting a rebellion from the taxpayers of Australia against increasing contributions to the wheat industry? I am afraid that I have to reject the Opposition's amendment because it is against the wishes of the industry and it would place an extra strain on the Australian Treasury. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Dr Patterson's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
Sales of wheat on the domestic market in the 12 months prior to the introduction of quotas amounted to about 9.7 million bushels for stock feed and about 50 million bushels for industrial purposes and human consumption. Figures for the first 5 months of this year beginning 1st December last show that sales to flour mills are 500,000 bushels higher than in the same period last year before the introduction of quotas and that sales of stock feed wheat through the Australian Wheat Board are only 400,000 bushels below the figure for the corresponding period last year. It is estimated that the Wheat Board will make sales of stock feed wheat in the vicinity of those made last year - between 8 million and 9 million bushels. Although one has to admit that there has been some trading of wheat across the borders - and there always was well before the introduction of quotas - it has not been to the degree that has been suggested by some people. 
In answer lo questions from the honourable member and one of his colleagues I have already expressed my concern about the present situation of Commonwealth meat inspectors both in regard to the shortage of staff and the fact that this shortage has been brought about by conditions of work and wages. I have informed him that my department has been in consultation with the Public Service Board to do whatever it can to have the salaries increased and the conditions improved, lt is a matter for concern, and my department and I are doing ail we can to try to rectify the matter. But the answer is not a simple one. These men have to be trained. We are doing our utmost to recruit them and to hold them in the service. 
I certainly have been doing all I can by means of sensible consultation and negotiation to have the ban lifted. The Minister for Labour and National Service has been in touch wilh the ACTU on a number of occasions, trying to get ii to see reason and to refrain from persisting in the very stubborn and defiant attitude it has been taking. Unfortunately the real culprit in this matter is the Australian Labor Parly. I think that the Leader of the Opposition and the shadow Minister for Agriculture deserve very severe condemnation for their whole attitude in this matter, in inciting the trade unions to defy law and order. If we are go'ng to accept a state where mass movements defy the Government then that is the thin edge of anarchy for this country. 

 - Mr Speaker, I find this question somewhat amusing. The Labor Party expresses great concern that no debate has taken place in this House on this subject; that it is a matter of great importance; and that it should be resolved. It is of interest to note that, during the course of the 2 or 3 months in which this Parliament has sat, the Opposition has found any number of matters of great urgency and public importance to bring before this House for debate. But as far as the lifting of the ban on the export of merinos is concerned, no, the Opposition has just been silent, almost as if its members have been frightened to express their own opinions. The facts of the matter are that every newspaper across this country, whether it had a point of view in the first place about the easing or the partial lifting of the embargo, now has a firm point of v ew regarding the attitude of the Labor Party in defying the Government. This is what has happened. 
The Australian wool industry through its organisations and its supreme body, the Australian Wool Industry Conference, has made a request to the Government for the partial lifting of the merino embargo for a trial period of 12 months. The Government has authority to do this. It is acting under the law that is on the statute book. I see no po'nt in bringing this matter before the House for debate. We have discussed it. A debate has taken place on the subject in this House. The industry has expressed its wish and we are carrying out that wish. If the Lahor Party wants to maintain this attitude it is all right with me. Its prestige is certainly dropping across the nation as a result. 
Opposition members  -  Oh, no! 
 Apparently the Labor Party is proud of this principle of calling the unions out to defy Government action. As I said, this is a very serious breach of the law. It is the start of anarchy in this country. Control cannot be exercised unless the law is obeyed. Here the alternative Prime Minister of this country is inciting the unions to defy law and order. Is government to be determined by the masses in the streets or the trade unions, or is it to be determined-- 
No, I did not say it. 
The sensitivity of the Leader of the Opposition shows either that he has a guilty conscience about this matter or that there is a change of attitude. If this is so 1 would be very glad to hear of it, and I would be very pleased if the Leader of the Opposition would go to the Australian Council of Trade Unions and tell it that his attitude has changed and that he is against the unions taking this kind of action. We made an announcement and then we delayed action for 9 or 10 months. This gave the industry an opportunity to review its earlier decision. No action was taken to review it. In fact the reply I received was that the industry stood by its earlier resolution that there should be a partial lifting of the ban, on certain conditions, for a period of 12 months. As a result of that decision overseas buyers came to the Sydney sheep sales earlier this year and about 47 rams were sold to a number of countries. Those countries have not been able to collect the sheep which they purchased. 
As a result of the actions of the Australian Labor Party relations with those countries are in a bad state. The Government stated that they could buy sheep in Australia. Having bought sheep they cannot take delivery of them. The possibility of retaliation of various kinds always exists. We were making excellent progress in our efforts to have Argentina become a member of the International Wool Secretariat. No doubt matters such as this were considered by the industry when it made the decision to lift the export ban, but today our relations with other countries have deteriorated. Mainland China bought 14 rams and still cannot take delivery of them. Does anybody think that mainland China appreciates the action of the Australian Labor Party in not allowing those rams to be delivered? 
The Australian wool industry has made a decision in this matter. Thirteen of the 16 national and State organisations supported the decision when it was initially taken. The Australian Wool Industry Council, which is the supreme body of the industry, voted in favour of lifting the ban for a period of 12 months, after which the decision could be reviewed. But the Labor Party continues to support the trade unions and to incite them not to allow the law to be enforced. I know that some people say that the Government should take firm action, but a government has to bear in mind the possible consequences of any action it might take. We are going through a period of industrial trouble in this country. This is tending to force up costs and prices and is having a serious effect on primary producers, who are in an impossible position. I suppose we could force the issue, and we may have to consider that. 
The Government will have to consider what action it might take, but I would not like to be responsible for major industrial trouble across this country. There is no need for it if the Labor Party would take a rational and sensible attitude towards this matter instead of trying to defy the law. 
I am aware that the International Wool Textile Organisation has expressed a point of view against any change in the present auction system. Also I am very conscious that there have been mass meetings of wool growers across the nation supporting the principle of a single marketing authority for wool. I cannot give an assurance to the honourable member as to whether such organisations as the International Wool Textile Organisation are going to influence the Australian wool growers. I would think it would be a retrograde step if they automatically followed what anybody else said. The user organisations certainly have a right to express a point of view, but I hope that the Australian wool industry will be discerning and make its own judgment as to what it believes is in its best interests as a whole. What is good for the user is often good for the industry, and vice versa. I think the most important thing for the survival of the wool spinner or the wool grower, however, is that he receives a satisfactory return. Without it there can be no guarantee of continuity of the supply of the raw material. This is what gives us all a great deal of concern. The Government would certainly listen to any advice, criticism or recommendation from all bodies concerned, and would take such views into consideration when the industry federation comes up with a recommendation. I think there has been a lot of undue speculation about what is meant by a single marketing authority. Nobody has spelt out in clear detail what is meant by this. In answer to a question in the House yesterday, I said that I did not interpret it as being the abolition of the auction scheme. It may be supplementing, strengthening or altering it. However, this is a matter for the wool industry. The members of that industry have to make up their minds, and I hope they exercise an independent mind in doing so. 
 It is very interesting to see the sensitivity of the Opposition this morning on this question of the lifting of the merino export embargo. It has taken  3  months for the Australian Labor Party to initiate a move to have a debate in this House on the matter. It has done it this morning only because it had been goaded into doing it because of its guilt about this whole subject matter of not allowing the law to be enforced and acted upon. What the Labor Party is saying is that if the trade unions say something, or suggest how the procedures of the House should be carried out, the Government should automatically bow to the unions. What the unions are saying, on the advice of the Australian Labor Party, is that there should be a debate on this matter. 
I am not arguing whether or not a debate should take place. It does not concern me greatly. Here, in the closing stages of this session, the Labor Party has moved for the suspension of Standing Orders this morning. It already has listed on the notice paper for discussion a matter of public importance. The Opposition was to go ahead with that debate. But, no; because its members became a little upset at question time and because it realises that it is in the wrong, the Labor Party is asking the Government now to change the whole parliamentary programme to allow its members to try to clear their own names. I see no reason why the Government should agree to the suspension of Standing Orders. This is sought for the benefit of honourable members opposite. Plenty of procedures of this House are available to them to facilitate a debate on this matter. For a period of 5 months, the Opposition has failed to introduce a debate on this matter. No need exists for the Government to have a debate on the subject. We have the law behind us. We have the industry behind us. 
To show honourable members how weak and pathetic the Opposition is and to illustrate the class of the debate that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has introduced this morning, I point out that the honourable member referred to the Australian Wool Industry Conference, which is a body made up of all the wool industry organisations, as being a Country Party front. 
If it is because these people can see some hope and future only in supporting the Country Party, I do not mind it being called a front. But it certainly is not a Country Party front. It stands for well established, recognised industry organisations across Australia. To see a member of the Australian Labor Party using the argument that a referendum should be held to decide the issue is laughable to say the least. How did the Labor Party introduce the original embargo? It was introduced overnight by Executive action. No reference whatsoever was made to the wool industry. It was introduced by statute. Its enactment was an illustration of the doctrinaire principle that we know is followed so often by the Australian Labor Party when in office. 
Today, honourable members opposite ask for a referendum on the matter. The wool industry has not asked for a referendum. A referendum cannot be held on the partial lifting of a ban for a temporary period. This partial lifting is to be reviewed. That is the point of view of the wool industry. We are prepared to stand behind it. But, no, the Australian Labor Party knows better and says that a referendum must be held. It was not good enough to have a referendum in the first place; apparently the Labor Party has changed its mind now. 
The Labor Party always wants 2 bob each way. It does not seem to make any difference. I am afraid that I must deny to the Opposition the suspension of Standing Orders. We have a parliamentary programme in front of us. The Labor Party proposed this morning to raise for discussion a matter of public importance, namely: 
The failure of the Government to promote design and construction of Australian aircraft and helicopters for defence and commercial purposes. 
But honourable members opposite did not think that was important at all because at question time they became a little bit ruffled, were a little bit sensitive and felt a little bit guilty about their actions on this whole affair. Therefore, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
 The answer to thc honourable member's question is as follows: 
The present restriction on the importation of Australian mutton into the United Slates is the first general restriction imposed because of standards of slaughtering and* inspection. The United Slates authorities over the past 5 years have, however, requested that a number of individual meatworks be removed from the list of establishments approved for the purpose of supplying meat lo the United States of America, because the meatworks in question were considered not to comply in all respects with the United States requirements. In most cases, requests for re-registration have ultimately been- granted following action taken to meet the particular circumstances which teo* lo deregistration, lt is a requirement of legislation administered by the United Slates Department of Agriculture that foreign establishments supplying meat shipped to the United States ot America be registered with that Department. A prerequisite of registration is that the establishment meets standards prescribed by the United States of America. Restriction- for reasons other than non-compliance wilh U.S.D.A. inspection standards have arisen because of the operation of the United States legislation, under which imports of fresh chilled or frozen beef, veal, mutton and' goat meat may be subject to quotas in any calendar year should the United States Secretary of Agriculture estimate that imports of these meats, during a calendar year, exceed by 10% or more a 'permitted let el' which is calculated by a formula in the legislation. When it was considered that there was a danger of quotas being triggered1 in 1968 and 1969 all major suppliers, including Australia, agreed to limit shipments. Voluntary restraints were agreed to by those suppliers and these were et at a level above those that would have been set had quotas been introduced but below the level which would have triggered quotas. In order to avoid exceeding the restraint level shipments for 1968 arrival were suspended between late September ami midNovember 1968. In 1969 limitations were placed on the amount each individual exporter could ship to the United Stales between August and midNovember 1969 for the same reason. 
lt would be impossible to determine whether any cost was incurred as a result of voluntary restrictions' on exports of Australian beef and veal to the United States in late 1968 and 1969. 
No. 
I  titer  national  Affairs:  United Nations  (Question Na. 1122) 
 I have not seen any statement by  Sir Walter  Merriman. I hope to be seeing him tomorrow, so I will ask him personally. 
Different people might have different interpretations of what a manageable level is, but one would have to take great notice of what the potential market outlet was, what stores were on hand and what storage facilities were available for the forthcoming season. This would be a matter on which the wheat industry would have very strong opinions. It would be stupid to be determining a quota level which would increase stocks further than they are at the present moment and which would be completely unmanageable. 
I do not know what new developments have taken place over the weekend. I do not know whether the Labor Party has been putting into effect some of the words uttered the other day by the Leader of the Opposition when he said that he had not said anything to get the unions or the Australian Council of Trade Unions to take the action they have taken. It was not that T said that he had said anything. I accused the Leader of the Opposition in this House of having incited the ACTU to take action against any rams leaving this country. I still stand behind those remarks because I know that he met this disgruntled group which was opposing the lifting of the embargo and a group that requested that the unions take this sort of action. I know that he met the executive of the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Labor Party to talk about this matter. I can hardly imagine that the weight and influence of the Leader of the Opposition would not mean a great deal in relation to the action of the ACTU. However, if the Leader of the Opposition does have another point of view on this subject I wish he would tell the ACTU and let us get over this silly business that is happening at the present time. 
I learnt over the weekend that the ambassadress from Brazil and the ambassador from Argentine have been to see the Leader of the Opposition about this matter. This certainly was not at my instigation, although the Leader of the Opposition tried to accuse me of it the other day. I knew nothing of it. The ambassadress and ambassador are concerned and worried that people came here and bought rams in good faith, thinking they could get them out of the country. Once the sale was made the Opposition had the audacity to see that the union ban was imposed. If this is its idea of creating goodwill with other countries then the Labor Party will be pretty hopeless in foreign affairs, should it ever become the government. The fact is that people from central American countries bought rams in Australia. So too did people from mainland China. South Africa, Italy and India. Those people bought rams and have not been able to get them out of the country. They came here thinking they would be able to do so. Yet the Australian Labor Party, through the mass strength of the unions, is defying the law. 
1 have not had any further contact with the New South Wales Government since we were negotiating some weeks ago. At that stage there were certain conditions unacceptable to it and certain conditions unacceptable to us. However, I am pleased to hear some noises being made by the Minister for Lands in New South Wales which make it appear that his Government is a little more enthusiastic about the proposal. So 1 hope that it will not be long before the New South Wales Government is able to accept the proposal. 
Unfortunately I was not present to see the incident mentioned by the honourable member. However, I did see in the 'Australian' about a week ago an article in which a fellow gave 10 points to solve all our agricultural problems. The first one was to get rid of Anthony. At times 1 think he might do me a good service if he did that. But I am here until the Opposition can convince the primary producers that I should nol be. The facts of the matter are that at the last election, when there were many worrying agricultural problems, the vole in the country areas was to support the Government because the people had no confidence whatsoever in the policies of the Australian Labor Party, which added up to nothing for country people. 
I did see the statement in the Press this morning by  Mr Aichi,  the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Japan. I think his comments were more related to the forthcoming visit to Japan, in a couple of weeks time, by the Minister for Trade and Industry,  Mr McEwen.  So, I think that it would be quite improper for me to make any comment on it. 
We can sit next week too. 

 Mr CREAN- Nobody on this side is objecting to sitting next week. It is the Government which sets the programme. 
That is not right. 
In reply - I do not want to detain the House. All honourable members have supported the Bill, which is basically to provide more finance for and to reduce the levy on wool growers. I think that the most interesting feature of the debate has been that the Australian Labor Party has declared a policy on the marketing of wool. Although I do not want to canvass the question now it sounded to me to be a hotchpotch of almost every idea that has been proposed. It was put together without spelling out clearly how these things are to be done. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
It is not the function of my Department to investigate integrated wool selling complexes such as the one at Yennora. This is a matter that the Australian Wool Board has taken upon itself to examine and to try to initiate with the co-operation of wool selling brokers. At the moment they are negotiating with the brokers to try to get a united approach to such a selling complex. There has been an investigation into the cost benefits and the practicality of such a centre. That information has been conveyed to my Department. I am not at the moment in a position to say whether I can make this information available to the honourable member or whether it is the property of the Australian Wool Board. Certainly if there is no restriction on it I will make it available. 
There have been consultations between my Department and the Meat Industry Advisory Committee. As a result, a set of recommendations has been drawn up for the slaughtering and handling of meat and this has been conveyed to the industry. Last week the industry carried out an experiment at an abattoir using the improved processing methods. Consultations are now taking place with the American authorities to see whether the new procedure is acceptable to them. Generally speaking we are making every effort to meet requirements so that the ban may be lifted as soon as possible. While 1 am on my feet talking about the problems associated with the export of mutton I take the opportunity to notify the House or another very worrying issue that has cropped up this morning. I have been informed by the Canadian Minister for Agriculture that no further shipments of mutton from Australia will be permitted entry into Canada until inspection standards of carcasses infected with caseaus lymph adenitis have been brought up to the prescribed American standards. Mutton already on board ships will not be affected. The reasons given for the Canadian ban are similar to those given for the United States prohibition. In each case it has been made clear that when the Australian standards, dressing procedures and inspection methods have been corrected, imports of mutton will again be permitted. The combined  ban by the two countries- 
At the moment the Americans have placed a total ban on all mutton to the United States and Canadian markets. They have applied this ban because of the very high rejection rate that was involved in the first 4 months of this year when almost 1 million lb was rejected on the grounds that it did not conform with the Wholesome Meat Act of the United States, that it did not come up to the standard of cleanliness and that there were certain organisms in the meat which they did not allow but which we have always considered harmless. The organisms are cysticercus ovis and caseaus lymph adenitis, which is the one that is causing the Canadians most concern. The only way we can guarantee in many of these cases that the carcass has not been affected is by doing an examination of the viscera with the carcass as it proceeds along the line after being killed and cleaned and there are very few abattoirs where this takes place. It involves certain complications and we do not have many abattoirs that meet this standard. Until we can get a fair number of abattoirs meeting the requirements of these countries I think it is unlikely that they will lift the ban. But we are negotiating with them to1 try to enable those abattoirs which have improved their standards and which meet their requirements to export, though for the time being we cannot seem to get this out of them. 
in reply - The Bill before the House is a machinery Bill. It is the annual appropriation for war service land settlement, an appropriation Bill which has come before this House each year since it was created in. .1945. The Opposition, along with members on this side of the House, has expressed its support for the Bill and the purposes of the appropriation. However the Opposition has added an amendment which proposes the establishment of a select committee to examine all aspects of war service land settlement in Australia in order to formulate guidelines for any future land settlement schemes. Whilst I am not critical of this amendment and can see some meaningful purpose in it. 1 can also see some difficulties and that, in some cases, it is not necessary. So for the present I take the point of view of opposing that part of the amendment. Before directing my remarks to the amendment I would like to make a few comments about the Bill and some of the remarks made by honourable members. 
This Bill provides for an appropriation mainly to help with the settlers carry-on finance for stock, plant and general working expenses. The actual development expenditure is tapering off. The Commonwealth now provides 100% of the money for the agent States which contain the only areas where war service land settlement is being carried out. To date, the Commonwealth has provided $320m for all agent States which represents an expenditure of $260m. This money is lent to settlers on very attractive terms of 3i%. When one considers the ruling interest rates today, that is indeed an attractive rate for the borrowing of money. 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  leading for the Opposition and, J believe, the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  mentioned that the Returned Services League had applied to the Commonwealth for an extension of the existing war service land settlement scheme to include national servicemen. This was put to me. I have replied to  Mr Keys,  the National Secretary of the Returned Services League stating that the Commonwealth was not able to agree to the proposal, mainly on the ground that the recipients for reestablishment benefits would gain an advantage far greater than that offered exservicemen who might be re-established in other areas of the community. To save time in this debate, with the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard the letter that I have written to  Mr Keys.  It reads:  10th March, 1970 
Dear  Mr Keys, 
Further to my letter of 23t February, I am writing to you concerning the League's proposal for the inclusion of a laud settlement scheme among the benefits available to National Servicemen on their discharge. 1 have read, with a great deal of interest, the submission on this subject which accompanied your letter. I appreciate that a considerable amount' of thought and research has gone into the preparation of this document and I commend the League for this. 
As you are doubtless aware, I am vitally interested in any matter relating to the farming community and look very sympathetically on any proposal made to me for its welfare. Many of the points made in your submission, particularly those regarding 'hard headed' selection of potential settlers, the desirability of adequate training and the backing of settler's bona fides by requiring some of their own capital to be invested in the farm, appeal to me hut I feel one of the most salient points included in your submission is the cost  at  establishing a settler on a property which will stand up to the vicissitudes and current problems besetting rural production, even when farms are under experienced management. I would agree wilh you that the costs of establishment set out in your submission are probably minimal. 
This naturally makes me wonder whether such a scheme as you propose has a reasonable application to National Servicemen. 1 have a great deal of respect for the abilities of the agc group represented by the National Servicemen and have little doubt that they would take advantage of the technical advances made in agriculture and the services available for dissemination of this knowledge. But I must keep some perspective in my appraisal of the position. 
I feel sure you would agree that those participating in a land settlement scheme such as you propose would be the recipients of assistance far greater than any other benefits available as re-establishment benefits for National Servicemen. From information given to me, it seems that a very minor proportion of those serving in the Regular Army Supplement could possibly participate in a land settlement scheme when the factors for selection arc recognised. 
Perhaps one guide to this is the fact that over the last 2i years in excess of 20,000 National Servicemen have been discharged but applications for agricultural loans number only 400. Een supposing all these applicants would he accepted as suitable for land settlement - and this is open  to doubt - it will be appreciated that a very small proportion of National Servicemen would be given the extensive benefits associated with the scheme. 
However sympathetically I look at your proposal, it seems to me the wide discrepancy in the capital requirement for each settler compared with that of the benefits which are available to the vast majority of National Servicemen makes it, if not impractical, somewhat unrealistic. 
As you will recall, the League has made representations for a land settlement scheme on previous occasions but the Government has not acceded to them. I regret to say that I am not convinced that the decision previously conveyed should be varied. 
Yours sincerely, (J. D. ANTHONY) 
G.W. Keys Esq., National Secretary, Returned Sevrices League of Australia, P.O. Box 303, CANBERRA CITY. A.C.T. 2601 
The honourable member for Braddon spoke in detail today on the question of war service land settlement.  His  electorate incorporates considerable numbers of settlers, especially the area of King Island where continuing criticism of this scheme has been voiced over a good many years. I know that my predecessor, the right honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  did visit King Island and meet the settlers. I know that he made arrangements which alleviated some of their problems. I, too, when I first became Minister for Primary Industry visited King Island to try to learn their problems and to help. This has been an issue of contention more so at King Island than anywhere else in Australia so far as I know. I think that it is unfortunate that this question never seems to be able to be resolved completely. 
The honourable member for Braddon questioned why the Commonwealth and not the States was making the valuation for war service land settlement purposes. I answer the honourable member by saying that the relevant legislation passed in1952 empowers grants to be made to the States for war service land settlement on such conditions as the Minister determines. Among the conditions laid down in 1953, and still operative, is provision that valuations would be made by agreement between the Commonwealth and the State concerned. This agreement still applies. It includes Tasmania. The fact is that valuations are agreed valuations. In Tasmania the field work involved in determining the value for option purposes is carried out by the taxa tion valuers. These officers carry out their duties objectively. This statement is substantiated by the fact that the valuations placed by these same valuers on land that is offered for sale as being surplus to war service land settlement needs are almost always reached and nearly always exceed the reserve price put on the land for option purposes. 
The objective valuation made for option purposes becomes basic data from which is deducted the value of structures already purchased by the settler. To a large extent, those values of structures are the 1946 values, a basis that is most favourable to the settler. The figure arrived at after deducting these sales values of structures becomes the option price. So the settler in Tasmania, when exercising his option, has the right of either taking the market value or accepting the cost of actually providing the holding, whichever is the less. That is how options are determined. 
The honourable member for Braddon mentioned various difficulties and cited different holdings. I would hope that the present committee that has been set up by the Tasmanian Government would be examining these questions which have been brought up by the honourable member for Braddon. A Commonwealth officer has been made available by me to provide information and to answer questions. Originally the position was that the only officer available was a relatively junior officer from Western Australia. The Crown Solicitor's Office informed me that no obligation was imposed on Commonwealth officers to provide information. This officer certainly did not have the capacity or the experience to speak on any areas that might involve policy, and therefore I was not prepared to make him available. But I have agreed to make a more senior officer available. I hope that this meets the needs of the Tasmanian committee. I give the honourable member for Braddon an assurance that when that committee eventually presents its findings I will take note of those findings. So I think it would be most inappropriate for a Commonwealth committee to be set up at the moment while this other committee is doing a job in Tasmania. 
The honourable member for Braddon also mentioned an accusation by  Mr Chisholm,  a member of the Tasmanian 
House of Assembly, made last year to the effect that there was a semblance of corruption in the way in which valuations were determined by Commonwealth officers in relation to the valuations that were declared by officers of the State Government At that time I replied in a Press statement to  Mr Chisholm's  accusation. No further disputation has arisen about this point. I am sorry that the honourable member brought it up today in the terms in which he stated it today. The valuations that he talked about are valuations by the State for rating purposes. These are generally unimproved values. If one looks at State values and Commonwealth values  - or market values as is the case with the Commonwealth - one sees a considerable difference between them, with the State unimproved values being considerably less than the market value. That is the reason why a discrepancy may be found between the two values. 
The Australian Labor Party has suggested a committee to look into the general question of war service land settlement. I have said that I would have to oppose that at this time. I oppose it because the record of the Government on war service land settlement gives no reason for a general inquiry. Demands by eligible settlers in the agent States for land have been satisfied. In South Australia there was a limited number of world-be settlers who did not obtain blocks due to land being held very tightly in that State, a lack of suitable areas of Crown land and a decision not to become more heavily committed to horticulture or viticulture under irrigation because of concern about the future outlook of these industries and about limited water availability. Any eligible South Australian applicant who did not receive a block in that State was given the opportunity to apply in Western Australia. 
The Government does not claim to be free from difficulties. There are pockets where problems exist. However, for the most part the current problems are industrywide - not confined to the scheme - in relation to which settlers under the scheme have been making representations to me. I will state some of them. One is the economic situation in recent years of settlers in the Mount Barker area of Western Australia. This is clearly a case of an industry prob lem - the low prices being received for wool, mutton and wheat in the region. Another is a series of issues which have been raised by the Upper Murray Ex-Servicemens Land Settlement Association. On 3 occasions 1 have received deputations from that Association, as mentioned by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  this afternoon, the most recent being in March this year. Action has been taken to meet the Association's request for more flexible provisions governing the transfer of leases. When that deputation last saw me and 1 told it what the Government was prepared to do, the representatives expressed their appreciation of the new arrangements. Their claims for a review of leasehold valuations are currently being examined by a team comprising senior Commonwealth and senior State officers. 
Settlers in what is known as Zone 5 in South Australia - the north western portion of the south east - are appealing to the court against the increase of the provisional rentals for their blocks. The case was listed for hearing in Adelaide and it commenced yesterday, so it would be most improper to have an inquiry on this issue while the matter is before a court. The problem facing settlers on Kangaroo Island is an industry problem but it is accentuated by freight charges. The South Australian Government however gives a subsidy to help settlers on Kangaroo Island with the problem of freight charges. Continued representations by Tasmanian settlers against the prices determined for their blocks which they would have the option to convert from leasehold to freehold, is a matter I mentioned earlier. On both King Island and Flinders Island one of the very great difficulties facing the settlers is the high cost of transport and freight charges. The Commonwealth is giving subsidy atd to those settlers to reduce their freight costs. 
To the King Island settlers. 
I will. I hope I have straightened it for the honourable member. Again this is a question which I imagine the committee will consider. In other words, leaving aside the groups whose difficulties derive from industry problems in general, the difficulties of the other limited areas are currently being dealt with in one way or another. A select committee of the House of Representatives would be a sheer duplication of the work already being done. The number of complainant settlers is very small when compared with the 3,000 exservicemen re-settled under this scheme in the agent States and about 9,000 settlers in Australia as a whole. For the reasons I have outlined I must oppose the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson on behalf of the Opposition. 
Question put. 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Dr Patterson's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
Pursuant to section 23 of the Egg Export Control Act 1947- 1966, I present the Twenty second annual report of the Australian Egg Board on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1969, together with financial statements and the report of the AuditorGeneral on those statements. The interim report of the Board was presented to the House on 28th August 1969. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
The Australian Wool Board commissioned the publication of this document on the Joint Organisation and as the honourable member said 2,000 copies were printed. I believe that about 700 have been distributed but I have no idea of the number distributed in the last 12 months. Anybody who wants a copy of the publication can write to the Board. It is available for purchase at $2.50. Whether this booklet should be distributed more widely is, I think, a matter for the Board to determine. People who are interested ought to get is touch with the Board. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The estimated total payments per bushel to wheat growers in respect of the 1967-68 and 1968-69 pools are, for f.a.q. wheat, bulk f.o.r. ports of export, eastern States basis: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Veterinary Division is responsible for export meat inspection services. 

 Mr L. N. Thornton, Chief Veterinary Officer. 

 Mr Thornton's academic qualification is Bachelor of Veterinary Science.  His  practical experience covers a period of 32 years service with the Department, during which he has occupied positions at all levels, including Veterinary Officer-in-Charge of individual meatworks, Supervising Veterinary Officer, Veterinary OfficerinCharge of Export Inspection in New South Wales, Australian Veterinary Officer, London,  Deputy  Chief Veterinary Officer and Chief Veterinary Officer. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In each State there are requirements for the routine inspection of poultry processing premises, and registration of premises is required by most States. In addition to the inspection of premises for the purpose of ensuring the maintenance of acceptable standards of hygiene, the State Public Health authorities exercise a general surveillance over the wholesomeness of all foodstuffs at the retail level. Similar requirements and procedures operate in Territories within Australia. 
Many countries have standards for poultry established by legislation, and these usually apply to both the domestic and imported product In the U.S.A., for instance, the Wholesome Poultry Products Act specifies minimum standards relating to the preparation and wholesomeness of poultry, inspection supervision, and so on. This Act requires that standards in exporting countries be the substantial equivalent of those contained in the Wholesome Poultry Products Act. In Canada, standards for poultry, whether domestic or imported, are contained in the Meat Inspection Act, and poultry must comply also with the Animal Contagious Diseases Act The foregoing examples are illustrative, and virtually every country to which Australia exports poultry requires certification as to the hygienic processing, packing and general soundness of the product. Individual countries require particular certifications as to freedom from specified fowl diseases. 
State authorities responsible for standards in the poultry industry are unanimously of the view that there is no evidence of any high degree of disease in poultry food in Australia. However it is generally accepted throughout the world that poultry is a medium very susceptible to the transmission of salmonella. 
To date little positive attention has been paid to achieving uniform legislation as between the States to control the standard of poultry food within Australia, but there currently appears to be an increasing willingness on the part of the States to consider the practicability of uniform legislation. 
 The answer to the honourmember's question is as follows: 
I announced publicly on 26th February 1970 that the Government had agreed to maintain the rate of first advance payment at $1.10 per bushel, less freight, for the next (1970/71) season on deliveries of wheat to the Australian Wheat Board within the State quotas, totalling 318 million bushels, as recommended by the Australian Wheat Growers' Federation and endorsed by each of the State Governments. 
No consideration has been given to the level of first advance for subsequent seasons. It is a policy matter which will be examined at the appropriate time and consideration will be given to all relevant circumstances. 
Professional Engineers (Question No. 1297) 
There has not been any agreement reached with New South Wales on the dairy farm reconstruction proposals. So far 3 States have accepted the proposals and arrived at mutual conditions. They are Western Australia, Tasmania and Queensland. After negotiations with the Queensland Minister for Lands about 2 weeks ago we reached complete agreement on all aspects and 1 hope that this agreement will be put into effect as soon as possible. A lot of noise has been made in New South Wales either for or against the scheme. In fact, at times I. wonder where that State stands on the proposal. There have been areas of difference between the Commonwealth and New South Wales. One of the areas of difference has been that the State has wanted to apply this money right across the whole dairy industry in New South Wales, including the whole milk area. 
The Commonwealth, which has the responsibility in the manufacturing area of the industry, has rejected this proposal. However, the Commonwealth has been prepared to accept that there is a marginal area where people may have small quotas and it has allowed this money to be available to farmers who have 50% or more of their dairy products sold at manufacturing prices. Therefore, this will overcome quite a bit of the grey area. However, we have said to New South Wales that we would have no objection if moneys which it uses in its present farm build up scheme are applied exclusively to the milk zone. In fact, we would be prepared to make a grant to that State to assist it to use these moneys to write off some of the redundant improvements on properties. However, as yet, I have not been able to get even to negotiating terms with New South Wales. I only hope that I get word shortly so that some satisfactory conclusion can be arrived at. 
 We have just listened to the shadow Minister for Primary Industry speaking for the Opposition on this matter of public importance concerning the state of rural industries, the need for reconstruction and the drought problem. Although he spoke for 15 minutes I did not hear him offer any new suggestions or say one thing that we do not know already. Rural industries are facing serious problems. I think the most penetrating part of the speech of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  is what he did not say. He did not offer one suggestion as to how these problems might be tackled. 
I did listen. During the past 2 or 3 months the honourable member has been roaming around Australia waving his arms about and saying vaguely that we must have a national policy, but that is as far as he has gone. There cannot be one all-embracing agricultural policy because the problems are vast and differ from industry to industry. Therefore it is necessary to have a wide range of policies for each sector of primary industry. There is no relationship between eggs, beef, cotton, coarse grains, apples and wool. Each one has to be examined separately and given whatever assistance is possible. But there are limitations on the assistance which can be given. There are financial limitations on the assistance which can be given by the Commonwealth and the States and there are constitutional limitations on what the Commonwealth can do. 
I think it is unfair to take the point of view that there has been no leadership shown or courageous action taken because there have been more radical moves in the field of agriculture during the past 2 years than this country has ever known. For example, a wheat quota scheme - but it did not get much support from the Opposition - has been introduced. In fact, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  did everything possible to try to sabotage the wheat quota scheme. 
If he had been successful the industry would have been in utter chaos. 
It does not seem as though this is the policy of the Australian Labor Party, but we will let the honourable member for Riverina speak for himself. The Government has brought about an international sugar agreement which will control the amount of sugar going on to the residual world market and it has limited Australia's production accordingly. The Government has brought about an international grains arrangement in an endeavour to achieve the orderly marketing of grain. It has also got the dairying industry together for the first time in an endeavour *o impose certain restrictions on production. A new system has been introduced whereby a quota is applied to each State in an attempt to limit the total production to 220,000 tons. 
The Government has also entered into a new field - farm reconstruction - which has received little support from some members of the Opposition. I exclude the honourable member for Dawson because he has been a strong advocate right through for farm reconstruction, but whispering campaigns have been conducted against it by some honourable members opposite. These 
20734/70- R.2 
honourable members have gone round the countryside saying: 'The Minister for Primary Industry and the Government are only concerned about getting rid of the small farmers. They want to depopulate country areas. They do not care about the small farmers'. These honourable members have been saying this despite the fact that the whole objective of the Government's dairy farm reconstruction proposals has been to maintain in the industry those people who wish to stay and give those who wish to leave it an alternative to diversify to other forms of production. Many measures have been taken to attack the problems which exist in every area of agriculture. So, any remarks to the effect that the Government is not concerned, worried or sympathetic are not genuine. The Government is concerned and it will continue to do everything possible to meet the problems which arise whenever they arise. 
The honourable member for Dawson said that all the Government can talk about is sir ikes. A very serious strike is pending amongst meat inspectors in the meat industry. I have acknowledged that this is a serious situation. In fact, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor)  has contacted me many times about the problems of the large number of employees who work in the many meat works in his electorate. We have gone to no end of trouble to 117 to resolve the problem of insufficient meat inspectors by trying to improve the working conditions and wages of meat inspectors. Recently the Public Service Board, after negotiations with the meat inspectors, declared that all meat inspectors would become permanent Commonwealth employees and that many of them would be upgraded to second grade employees. However, the one problem which the Government has not been able to resolve is that of their opportunity to take their recreation leave. The rather shameful situation exists whereby some meat inspectors have not been on recreation leave for 3, 4 or 5 years because the Government has not been able to recruit sufficient numbers to make up for those who have left the industry. 
Following recent negotiations between the Government and the meat industry agreement was reached to slow up the killing rate so that meat inspectors would be able to take their recreation leave and thereby avoid the national strike which was pending amongst the meat inspectors. The agreement of the meat industry was obtained. Unfortunately, the works and the unions are now complaining because some people have to work shorter hours and cannot have the same throughput. In fact, some employees have had to be put off. But the Government has done its best as a responsible government and the Department of Primary Industry has done its best as a responsible department to resolve this problem and to try to spread its impact as much as possible across Australia so that individual meat works will not be penalised. But to talk of the Government encouraging strikes is a case of the pot calling the kettle black. If there is one sector cf the Australian community which is putting an impost on primary producers it is the leaders of the industrial unions, who seem to call on strikes at any time. 
A big problem facing primary industries is the cost price squeeze. There are some areas in which it is impossible for the Government to rectify the problems. I refer to the decline in world prices, the lack of access to different markets in the world because of tariff barriers, quotas and embargoes and substitutes replacing some of our agricultural products. The green revolution has resulted in an increase in the production of certain types of grains for which there are no longer big enough markets. The Government cannot do anything about this sort of thing except try to buffer their impact. But a government and a nation should be conscious of the need to do something about the cost increases which are occurring. The Budget which was brought down in this House last night was a deflationary one. There is a very large domestic surplus in it in an attempt to reduce liquidity in the economy. We have been compelled, reluctantly, to increase interest rates, to make money tighter in order to dampen down the tremendous demand that is developing in the economy. Any party which supports a proposal for shorter working hours can only bring absolute disaster to the primary industries which are battling for survival today. They are being strangled by increasing costs. The  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  has publicly said that he is not going to take any notice of the wage impact on primary industries. What concern or sympathy for primary industries can there be amongst the Opposition when the leader of the unions which Opposition members come into this Parliament to represent takes this sort of attitude? It is sheer hypocrisy for members of the Opposition to get up and criticise the Government for the wage increases and the general cost increases which are having such an impact on the primary producers. 
The honourable member for Dawson mentioned his concern about the drought in northern Australia, mainly in northern New South Wales and Queensland although it has also been very severe in Western Australia during the past 12 months. Fortunately in some regions of that State the situation has eased somewhat. To say that the Government has no national policy on drought is again quite unfair. For dealing with drought it has established a set routine which did not exist until 3 or 4 years ago when we had a very severe drought in New South Wales and Queensland. The understanding between the State governments and the Commonwealth Government is that the first impact of drought will be met by the States. The incidence of drought can be regionalised. When the drought spreads and takes in a large part of the State or is Statewide the State governments come to the Commonwealth and make a request and we match them dollar for dollar. When the position is reached that the States can no longer continue their contributions the Commonwealth comes in and provides all the necessary money. Last year in Queensland the Commonwealth provided $14m. This year already it is committed to providing $llm for Queensland. On both occasions the Queensland Government has had to provide only the first $2m to match $2m provided by the Commonwealth. 
The drought money is being provided to help relieve the freight impost on fodder and also the cost of moving stock into and out of affected areas. Loans are made available for carry-on finance. The amounts made available to Queensland farmers have been increased this year. In the case of a small farmer the amount has increased from $6,000 to $10,000. In the case of a larger farmer it has gone from $10,000 to $16,000. Re-stocking finance has been increased from $10,000 to $20,000. The Government has met every reasonable request from the Queensland Government. This year an additional request has been made for money for the reconstruction of properties in Queensland. So that it would be able to set up a reconstruction board or other authority the State requested the Commonwealth to amend the Bankruptcy Act. 1 would like to inform the House that the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  has been examining this matter very closely in relation to amendments to the Bankruptcy Act. He has before the Government at the moment a submission that the necessary amendment be made. 1 hope that very soon - in the present session if possible - the amendment will be made, thus enabling the Queensland Government to proceed with the establishment of such a board to carry out the reconstruction. 
As mentioned last night in the speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  I and my Department have been given the responsibility of examining in detail the general indebtedness of rural properties in Australia and of coming forward with recommendations as to how this problem might best be tackled, whether through Commonwealth agencies or on a State basis. 1 assure the House that this matter will be handled as urgently as possible as I believe that it is the most important, immediate aspect of the problem of rural industries and it must be thoroughly examined. 
by leave - The 1969-70 season was an exceptionally difficult time for the wool industry. A drastic fall in wool prices combined with a continuing rise in costs was compounded by severe drought in large parts of Australia which in some regions had reached a calamitous stage. The Government has been concerned at the plight of the industry not only because of the hardship suffered but also because of the great importance of the industry to the Australian economy. If wool is to continue to provide a major share of Australia's export income as well as to remain the basis of livelihood for much of the rural areas of Australia, it is essential that the industry's viability be preserved. The present crisis in the industry requires a comprehensive approach which involves both immediate and longer term measures. Prolonged drought and low wool prices have placed many wool growers in an almost impossible position where they require emergency financial assistance. 
Honourable members will be aware that wool incomes have fallen markedly over the last year. Aggregate realisation on shorn wool sold has declined by some $100m to $687.2m in 1969-70. However, the severity of the fall for individual wool growers is not generally appreciated. Some 90% of this decline occurred in Queensland, Western Australia and New South Wales. In Queensland the wool cheque was 36% down, representing an average fall of about $8,000 per property. In Western Australia wool proceeds were 23% lower or $3,000 per property. These are only average figures with many wool growers faring much worse. Although Government aid has been of material assistance in drought areas, many producers have also had to bear costs of drought feeding, losses from forced sales of stock at low prices and the death of a proportion of their flocks. The Government has been giving detailed consideration to the problems being experienced by wool growers and the ways which are open to place the industry on a sound basis. The Government has before it a number of proposals. However the total approach is essentially long term. Further improvements to wool marketing, research into industry problems and debt reconstruction and farm adjustment necessarily take time. Short term urgent measures are clearly needed to prevent a loss of confidence in the industry, which would reflect throughout the whole economy. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  has announced the decision to provide emergency assistance for  I  year to those wool growers who are largely dependent on wool and whose incomes have fallen markedly in 1969-70. The assistance will be given by way of a grant within a total amount of $30m. Because individual entitlements will depend upon the number of applications lodged, it is not possible to announce the extent of entitlements. The payment to any individual will, as a maximum, be no more than $ 1 ,500. To assist in the4 speedy processing of claims, it is not proposed to pay those involving an amount of less than $50. The Government is most concerned to ensure that the assistance be directed primarily to those most in need. It is the intention to assist all growers who have been unduly affected by the drought and by low prices. On the other hand, it is reasonable to expect the wool grower to carry some of the loss as a normal hazard associated with the production of wool. With this in mind, the assistance will be based on half the average fall in wool prices in 1969-70, that is, 8%. The amount of assistance will be related to the difference between gross wool income in the year ended 30th June 1970 and 92% of the wool income for the previous year. 
In order to ensure that only those wool growers who are largely dependent on wool for their living receive a grant, assistance will be confined to persons receiving a substantial proportion of their total income from wool. Eligibility for full assistance will be limited to growers whose gross income from wool makes up at least 50% of their total gross income from all sources in the year ended 30th June 1969; but there will be a phasing out arrangement, with assistance ceasing where gross income from wool is 33i%. From the foregoing it can be seen that applications should only be made by wool growers who obtained at least one-third of their income from wool in the year ended 30th June 1969 and who suffered a fall in gross income from wool of more than 8% between the years ended 30th June 1969 and 1970. Under these conditions, a large part of the grant will be going to persons in Queensland, New South Wales and Western Australia who have been affected by drought. The Government has been mindful of the views of the Advisory Committee of the Australian Wool Board that immediate relief was necessary, and has taken account of the principles enunciated by the Committee, in formulating the principles on which the assistance is to be given, subject to administrative feasibility and simplicity. As this assistance is to meet an emergency situation it is essential that it be made available as soon as possible. If we are to avoid any undue delay it is inevitable that some anomalies may well be unavoidable. Where these can be shown to have a particularly adverse effect because of the circumstances of an individual wool grower these will be considered as sympathetically as possible. Further details of the grant will be made available to wool growers in the near future. It is not possible to calculate the total entitlement of wool growers until all applications have been lodged. Accordingly it  is  proposed to make an early interim payment on each claim. 
In order to ensure that payments are finalised as soon as possible, wool growers must submit their applications by 30th November 1970. Claims for assistance received after this date will be considered only if the total fund has not been exhausted. Application forms for assistance will be available at post offices within the next few weeks. I must ask eligible wool growers to submit these promptly. This scheme should materially assist hard-hit wool growers to survive the immediate crisis. However the emergency assistance outlined here tonight can only be a first step. As 1 stated earlier, the Government will be seeking appropriate longer term measures to overcome the fundamental problems of the industry. 
As my colleague, the Treasurer, has said the need for reconstruction in the wool industry will be examined as a matter of urgency. The problem of debt and debt servicing is a critical one for many people particularly in the drought stricken areas. For some farmers such measures as debt reconstruction would offer a way out of present difficulties. Arrangements now being operated in some States or operated prewar illustrate some of the possibilities to be considered. The selection of appropriate arrangements needs to be carefully considered or the result could well be to put some wool growers into deeper trouble, with an even bigger financial millstone around their necks. Long term debt reconstruction would be of assistance only to those producers whose businesses are basically sound and have good prospects of servicing the capital value of their debt after debt reconstruction has taken place. The problems of many producers finding difficulty in meeting their debts can be solved only by more fundamental reconstruction of their properties. Debt restructuring must therefore be tied in with farm adjustment. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics has been asked to investigate and report to me on the immediate and longer term needs for debt reconstruction and farm adjustment. Whilst the necessary investigation of all aspects of these matters will require some time, I have asked the Bureau to make a preliminary report to me at the earliest possible opportunity for consideration by the Government. 
The Government recognises that any total approach to the problems of the wool industry entails close attention to wool marketing, lt has before it a proposal submitted by representatives of the wool industry for the establishment of a statutory wool marketing authority to administer the marketing of the Australian wool clip. The plan was prepared by the Advisory Committee of the Australian Wool Board at the request of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. The Advisory Committee was under a great deal of pressure to complete ils report. I had asked it to provide a quick picture of the total wool scene including reference to the marketing structure proposed by the industry. As the Treasurer mentioned in the Budget Speech, the Government has under examination all aspects of the setting up and operation of such an authority. A close analysis of the proposal is required and (his is being undertaken by the Government as a matter of considerable urgency. On behalf of the Government I will be in consultation with the industry on the marketing plan and when the details have been finalised it can then be put to the Government and the industry for consideration. In the interim I trust that the various sectors of the wool industry will not prejudge the issue but will wait until the details have been worked out. 
Close attention has also been given to the potential benefit of technical innovations in the marketing of wool. To assist the industry in its own efforts to reduce the present high costs associated wilh the handling and sale of wool, the Government has agreed to guarantee approved loans obtained by the Australian Wool Board for the construction and equipping of integrated wool selling complexes where these can be shown to provide benefits to the industry. Further, the application of objective measurement to wool prior to ils sale could well lead to the sale of wool by sample, which offers the prospect of considerable cost savings and other advantages. To this end the Government has agreed to provide a sum of about $1.5m over 2 years to finance research and trials into the feasibility of introducing pre-sale objective measurement of wool on a commercial basis. 
The measures which 1 have outlined will operate concurrently with the assistance which has been announced earlier, namely, the halving of the levy paid by wool growers for promotion and research and a doubling of the Government's contribution in this field as well as the financial aid given by the Government for the operation of the current wool marketing price averaging plan. All these measures, together with those which the Government has under immediate consideration, represent a concerted approach designed to deal with the real and pressing problems of wool growers and to restore confidence and prosperity in Australia's major rural industry. 
I present the following paper: 
Assistance to Wool Industry - Ministerial Statement, 19 August 1970. 
Motion (by  Mr Molten)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
I do not want to detain the House for long but I want to make a couple of comments first of all to dispel any idea that it might be the wish of the Executive to bring in this new proposal to sit for 2 weeks and then to rise for a week. I do not support the proposal. I oppose it because I do not believe it is a practical proposition or that it will achieve what it is aimed to achieve. Since I have been in the Parliament I have seen various changes. When I first came here we sat continuously with 3-day weeks. I believe a 3-day week is the best sort of week for the Parliament. I believe we all become a little strained if we sit for 4 days a week. I think the performance of the last session, when we sat for 4 days a week, was undersirable and the best was not obtained from this Parliament. However experience showed that if we sat continuously for weeks, be it for 7, 8, 9, 10 or 11 weeks, everybody became a little irascible and cranky. People from distant areas were not given the opportunity to visit their electorates or to attend to them so it was decided - I think in about 1958 or 1959 - that we should sit for 4 weeks and then have 1 week off. Somewhere in the 60s it was decided that we should sit for 3 weeks and then have a week off. 
I have noticed that on this sort of performance, sitting for 3 weeks then having a week off, we could not cope with the amount of work that was coming forward. Last year and this year it has been necessary to sit on Fridays - that is, to go into a 4 day week. This new proposal does have certain virtues. I think some of the other proposals, that is for altering the time of speakings, the sittings of the House and the quorum of the House, have great virtues; but to try to confine the work to 2 weeks and then have a week off, and to do that for the term of the session, would mean that we just could not get through the work. Parliament is the most unpredictable place imaginable. One is never certain when it will start or finish or what work will come forward. 1 believe the most important thing with Parliament is that if topics of national importance or of urgency come up there should be ample time for discussion so that all honorabe members can state their point of view. Although this proposal might give more debating hours, before long we will find ourselves having to sit on the second Friday in the 2 week period. That would mean that we would sit for 5 days in the second week, which I think is completely untenable. 
The suggestion that honourable members will stay here over the weekend and participate in committees is quite unrealistic because anybody who can get home at the weekend will get home. When there has been a 4 day week everybody has been scrambling to get away on Fridays as soon as possible. To anybody who was here on Friday afternoons the place was almost like a morgue with barely a quorum to keep it going. If honourable members accept this new proposal it will not be long before there will be an extension and they will bc sitting on the second Friday and they will sit for more weeks. The trouble Ls we cannot always sit for more weeks because of periods when there are Senate elections or House of Representatives elections, or we come up to Christmas time. People think you can sit continuously. Honourable members would not accept that, because there is a need for breaks. There is a need for parliamentary teams to go overseas and to travel around Australia. For those reasons I am afraid that I cannot accept the proposal put forward. 
The  answers  to the hon  ourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 understand from representatives of the Tasmanian industry that substantial purchases of hops from both the 1969 and 1970 Australian crops could reduce the quantity taken up from next season's crop. In addition, the conversion of hops to extract by a major brewery resulting in a considerable lessening of hops used and the move by growers, both in Tasmania and Victoria, from the low alpha resin varieties to Pride of Ringwood and similar high alpha resin types could also have an effect on brewery requirements. 
Importations of both dried hops and hop extracts have substantially decreased in recent years as the supply of Australian grown hops has been approaching brewers' requirements. It has been the practice of brewers to import only hops required for specialised beers and relatively small quantities of extract. The value of imports of hop cones and lupulin has declined from about Sl.lm in 1965-66 to $129,000 in 1968-69 and to $38,000 for the 9 months ended March 1970. Import clearances of hop extract were valued at only $1,642 for the 10 months ended April 1970. 
I have been informed by industry representatives that the current surplus of hops in Tasmania is between 2,000 and 3,000 bales (bale average 250 lbs). 
The domestic industry presently enjoys tariff protection against imported hop cones, lupulin and hop extracts at the following levels of duty: 
The answers to the honourable members questions are as follows: 
Pneumatic shearing equipment has been developed in Western Australia which won the Australian New Implement Award at the 1969 Orange National Field Day and the New Zealand New Implement Award at the Hamilton (NZ) Field Day in March 1970. 
I understand that the equipment has certain advantages over traditional shearing machines, particularly in flexibility of handling. I am advised that there does not seem to be any evidence that the new design will bring savings and greater efficiency. 
Yes, I understand that the Company involved has accepted an invitation to display the equipment at the Kiev Trade Fair. 
The inventors of this equipment were not eligible for a research and development grant under the conditions laid down by the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act 1967. 
My only knowledge of disruption to meatworks in Victoria is the information that the honourable member has supplied to me and his expression of great concern about the effect that the proposal which has been agreed to by the industry to try to enable meat inspectors to have their recreation leave is having on the rate of killing and inspections. I am aware of the difficulty. I regret that I do not have a solution to it. As the honourable member will be aware, for some considerable time we have had a problem in providing sufficient meat inspectors to enable these works to operate and kill for the export market and to meet the very high requirements that are being demanded of us today, while at the same time enabling the meat inspectors to have their recreation leave. If we had given them recreation leave we would not have had sufficient meat inspectors and works would have had to be closed down completely. 
The position is that we have been unable to give some inspectors leave for periods extending from 3 to 5 years. This is an intolerable situation for these fellows. We have done everything possible to improve their conditions. Recently there were useful discussions between representatives of the meat inspectors and the Public Service Board. The establishment was increased quite considerably. Meat inspectors were upgraded. All meat inspectors now become permanent Commonwealth employees. These measures were greatly welcomed by the inspectors, but still we are unable to recruit sufficient people and hold them in the industry. However, we still have the problem of being able to give them their recreation leave. It seemed to be a problem to which we could not find an answer. Yet, these men rightly were demanding their leave and said that there would be a strike of meat inspectors right across Australia if something was not done about the situation. 
My Department bad consultations with the industry on behalf of meat inspectors to see whether we could find a solution to the problem. The meat industry agreed that this was a problem and that it should be rectified, lt accepted that some rostering of meat inspectors to go on leave ought to be introduced, that meatworks would have to slow down their rate of killing, and that this would cause some disruption to some plants and some unemployment. But this was the only way of tackling the problem; otherwise we would have a complete breakdown of the inspection service and all meatworks, for export purposes at any rate, would have to close down. We have come to this solution by agreement with the meat industry. If it is causing some difficulties, I regret it and say that I am sorry. But it is the best that we can do in the circumstances. 
This week a request was received for the importation from New Zealand of a consignment of 500 tons of potatoes for processing purposes. Imports are prohibited except with the permission of the Minister for Customs and Excise but before he can make a determinaion on a matter of this kind it goes before an interdepartmental committee consisting of officers of my Department, the Department of Health, the Department of Trade and Industry, the Treasury and the Department of Customs and Excise. I am told that the committee will meet tomorrow to consider the request. I should inform the honourable member that any matter relating to quarantine is examined thoroughly by the committee to ensure that there is no threat to the Australian potato industry. 
Dealing first with membership of the International Wool Textile Organisation? I could not definitely state whether the Australian Wool Board has the information sought by the honourable member for Moore. I canot tell him whether the Board has a list of those members or whether they are users, merchants or, as he said, speculators, i will try to obtain the information and make it available. 
The second question asked by the honourable member related to a commtitee called, [ think, the Western Australian Power Alcohol Committee, members of which came to Canberra last Tuesday to have consultations with officers of my Department, the Commonwealth Scientific Industrial and Research Organisation and the Bureau of Mineral Resources, on the feasibility of converting grain into power alcohol. I will tell honourable members how it happened that they came to Canberra. I have had contact with various organisations in Western Australia abou; this matter. 1 wrote to them explaining the great difficulties involved. When in Westera Australia recently, after having been badgered from all sides by many organisations, I made a fairly strong statement saying that this suggestion was not feasible. However, I still left the door open. I said that if these people would not take my word or accept the information I had conveyed to them I. would be willing to have senior officers of the CSIRO and my Department explain to them the practical, economic and technical difficulties. This deputation came to see me on Tuesday and 1 told its members that the scheme was not practical although it was technically feasible to run a car on power alcohol, which they had done. They ran a car from Western Australia to Canberra, adding 10% power alcohol to the fuel. I told them that there were other great difficulties. They are pursuing this matter in a very courageous way. I admire them for trying to find an answer to the problem of the surplus grain in Western Australia but the difficulties are so enormous that it will be a long time before this suggestion becomes a practical reality. 
The honourable member for Darling referred to the predicament facing the Australian dried vine fruits industry and asked whether the Government intended to give a lead in the matter. Last year T had lengthy negotiations with representatives of the dried vine fruits industry about extending the industry stabilisation scheme for a further 5 years. We reached agreement on this scheme, which had a heavy Government subvention to it. but when it was put to a poll of growers there was lack of support for it. So at the moment there is no stabilisation scheme for the dried vine fruits industry, which covers currants, sultanas and raisins. However, I believe that the Dried Vine Fruits Association will submit another request to me to see whether another poll of growers might be taken on the proposal that they rejected last year, but as yet no formal application has been made to me. As to the planting of a certain variety of grape, I am sorry J am not up to date on this aspect, but 1 will be happy to ascertain the position and let the honourable member know. 
We commenced negotiations with the United Arab Republic about two to three months ago and were fortunate to make a sale of 500,000 tons of f.a.q. wheat. We then managed to negotiate a further sale of another 250,000 tons of wheat, which made a total sale of 750,000 tons, a very substantial sale to that country I am pleased to say that, at the conclusion of those negotiations, senior representatives of the United Arab Republic came to Australia. We were able to negotiate a 3-year contract for 1 million tons of wheat a year, which is a very substantial sale. The terms of the sale of the 750,000 tons of wheat that we have arranged for this year are 10% at the time of shipment with the balance being paid in equal yearly instalments over a 3-year period. 
I mention also that the price of wheat has been showing increasing activity on the London market. Since 13 th August, the price has gone up $3.75 a ton on that market. Apparently, the reason for this substantial increase is the flooding and bad seasonal conditions in eastern Europe, the very heavy curtailment of production in North America and also the effects of leaf blight which is hitting the maize crop in the United States. Information has just come through on this topic. Apparently there is a very serious disease problem in the southern States of the United States. It appears that the very large quantities of maize which those States produce each year could be cut back substantially because of this leaf blight. As a result there is increasing price activity on the London market. But I hope that wheat growers will not become too optimistic. 
Although the drought conditions in Australia are curbing delivery estimates this year  -  the latest estimate being about 225 million bushels - there will still be a substantial carryover, estimated at about 280 million bushels at the start of next year's harvest. So with a crop of 225 million bushels it means we will have a total amount of over 500 million bushels on hand. If we manage to dispose of the same quantity as we disposed of this year - and it is a record of 347 million bushels - we still have a carryover of 1 55 million bushels. This is a much more attractive and healthy position than we were in last year but it is still a large carryover. It costs the industry a lot of money to hold this wheat but the overall position is much better now than it has been in the last 2 years. 
I am very aware of the concern of the honourable member for Mallee about the forthcoming lamb killing season in Victoria and the pressures that have been placed upon members of this Parliament and industry leaders to ensure that the meat works can cope with these animals because if they cannot be slaughtered the market will slump considerably. Unfortunately we have had a major problem in recruiting and holding the number of meat inspectors we need. When 1 answered a question asked by the honourable member for Gellibrand I stated some of the things we have done. There have been constant negotiations with the Public Service Board to improve the conditions of meat inspectors and to make that occupation more attractive. The number of permanent positions has increased substantially from, I think. 615 to 1.100. The Board has also established positions for another 100 temporary personnel. The wage level has been increased considerably as have the grades of meat inspectors so they can get a higher salary. We have had to come to some arrangement to give them recreation leave. To enable this to be done there have been discussions with the Meat Industry Advisory Committee. A roster has been provided at all meat works so that they could give leave to some of the inspectors. However this meant that the meat works could not kill at rates they were normally used to and we got ourselves into a very difficult corner. 
To try to overcome this i approached the New Zealand Government to see whether it could make available some of its meat inspectors, knowing that this is a slack time of the year for them. During the past few days while the New Zealand Minister for Agriculture, the honourable D. Carter, has been in this country I have been able to come to an arrangement with New Zealand for 50 meat inspectors to come from that country for 2 to 3 months to try to ease the position. 1 know I would bc expressing to New Zealand the gratitude of all honourable members and all people associated with the industry from the meat workers to the farmers for making them available. This is the sort of continuing co-operation there can be between the 2 countries on all sorts of matters. I would certainly like it recorded thai we are very appreciative of this effort. The final details for the meat inspectors will have to be worked out this week but it is hoped they will bc able ro  commence  coining over immediately. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The subject, location and purpose of fisheries research conducted by my Department in the last financial year is shown in the attached table. The cost of this research cannot be estimated since, for the most part, it was borne by normal Departmental expenditure and separate records have not been maintained. 
I think I am probably more responsible in this area than the Minister for Trade and Industry. The Government has received a report from the Wool Board Advisory Committee containing certain recommendations. The Government has already acted on some of these recommendations, such action including an announcement that there will be emergency financial assistance to wool growers amounting to a maximum of $30m. The Committee also submitted other requests that we look into the questions of the indebtedness of wool properties and farm reconstruction and adjustment. One of the aspects of the report was on marketing, as the honourable member mentions. This was a preliminary document on a single marketing authority. However, there were many areas about which it did not spell out details. Deeper investigation and consideration were needed to clarify a number of points relating to the operation of a reserve price scheme, the charter, the responsibility of private buyers, the actual financing of the arrangements and so on. At the moment my Department, in conjunction with the industry, is preparing a submission which will be circulated to the industry and the Government for consideration, and until that is done I do not think any of us are in a position to express an opinion one way or the other about a marketing authority. 
The Government announced in the Budget that $30m would be made available to meet the emergency needs of wool growers whose incomes had dropped substantially in 1969-70 as against the previous year. The main criterion that I have been working on is to get this money distributed as quickly as possible. Therefore my Department has been working at full speed to prepare application forms and to have them printed. This has been done. The forms are being distributed now to post offices. Copies should start reaching post offices by about the middle of next week and will be available at all post offices in wool growing areas by the middle of the following week. I hope that wool growers who can meet the criteria will fill in the application form and return it as quickly as possible. They will have a period of  2  months in which to do this. I wish to have all forms in by 30th November. As soon as the individual forms have been processed there will be an interim payment which, I believe, will be 
SO  per cent initially. 
The purpose of the meat industry diversification plan is to try to regulate the supply of meat to the American market. That is the most attractive market in the world and, of course, those concerned would like to supply meat to it because it is there that they can obtain the maximum return. Northern meat works have been placed at some disadvantage because of the kind of meat that they produce. Their meat is the most attractive on the United States market but probably suffers a disadvantage on other markets. As a result, they have been making a number of protests about the operation of the scheme and the proportions which apply to them compared with those which apply to southern meat works. 
There have been numerous discussions. I have had their requests put before the Australian Meat Board and the Australian Meat Exporters Council to see whether some alterations can be made. In fact, alterations have been made which are of substantial financial benefit to the meatworks in the north. However, I am afraid that I cannot accept that they should be excluded completely from the diversification scheme for their advantage and for the disadvantage of other meat works in Australia. At present they receive consideration. It is necessary for them to buy up some of the credits that southern meat works have, but that is the only way in which a scheme, based on the voluntary agreement of the industry and by which everyone is treated equitably and fairly, can work. 
I  move: 
That the Bill  be  now  read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Processed Milk Products Bounty Act 1962-1970 to provide for the payment of an export bounty of $3,379,000 on skim milk powder, buttermilk powder and casein produced and exported in 1970-71. The decision to pay the bounty on non-fat milk products formed part of the arrangements agreed to by the Government for the Australian dairy industry for 1970-71 in response to undertakings by the industry to voluntarily restrain butter and cheese production during the year to 220,000 tons and 70,000 tons respectively. The returns from the sale of non-fat milk products represent an important part of producers' returns and the bounty provisions will help to maintain the allowances made to producers by butter factories for solids-not-fat in milk at the 1969-70 level, which reflected the receipt of devaluation compensation payments. However, the bounty provisions will rule out any devaluation compensation being paid on the products in question ex 1970-71 production. 
The Bill provides for an appropriation of $1,804,000 for the payment of bounty on skim milk powder and buttermilk powder and $1,575,000 on casein. As with the existing bounty on exports of processed milk products containing butterfat the bounty will be paid to the producer of the product. There will be .provision for interim rates of bounty to be fixed by the Minister for Primary Industry after consultation with the Australian Dairy Industry Council. The final rates of bounty will be automatically determined by the quantity of product exported. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The provision of protection for farmers in meeting their debts, such as legislation to provide for a moratorium, is a matter for the State Governments. I understand that a measure of protection for farmers who find themselves in financial difficulties due to circumstances beyond their control, such as natural disasters, may be available under some existing State legislation. So far as the banking system is concerned, I am informed that the Reserve Bank has been assured on many occasions that the trading banks give sympathetic consideration to requests for assistance from rural clients who because of natural disasters including drought, experience difficulties in meeting repayments on bank loans. 
The Government is examining the need for reconstruction of rural industry, including as one aspect of reconstruction, the question of producers' indebtedness, and of ways in which the Commonwealth can most effectively assist. 
The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2). No. 
A function of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics is to keep under continuing review and to report on factors affecting the position of primary producers in the light of changing economic conditions. For the wheat industry one method of doing this is through its periodic surveys of the industry which it undertakes at fiveyearly intervals; the last of these was carried out in 1967 and on the normal timetable the next comprehensive review of the industry may be expected in 1972. 
However, other examinations of the wheat industry are carried out from time to time to assist governments and the industry in drawing up appropriate policy measures. As an example, the Bureau is currently carrying out, at my request, an investigation into the immediate and longer term needs for debt reconstruction and farm adjustment, 2 problems of particular relevance to many wheatgrowers in Australia. 
The Bureau's resources are necessarily limited The organisation is already under strain in meeting the various demands placed on it for research and there is a clear need for priorities to be established in carrying out its research and investigation programme. In the current situation it will be generally agreed that problems of debt reconstruction and farm adjustment have high priority and that other topics which may be importtant in themselves have to be put on one side for the present. Given its limited resources and the relative priorities, the Bureau does not propose at this stage to embark on the survey referred to in the honourable member's question. 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Dried Fruits Export Control Act 1924-1966 I present the forty-sixth annual report of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Poultry Industry Assistance Act 1965-1966 f present the fifth annual report on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
The Treasurer announced in his Budget Speech that I had the responsibility of using my Department and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to carry out a survey in depth of the general indebtedness of rural industries. This work is being carried out as a matter of urgency. Officers of my Department and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics have been negotiating with the banks, pastoral houses and brokers and will be holding discussions with finance companies and other credit organisations to determine the incidence of indebtedness in various rural industries. Once this survey has been done the Government will be in a clearer position to decide how best the problem should be tackled. This problem may involve the State governments. If it does there will need to be negotiations with the States, but until that position arises we will not be able to say just what the course of the discussions will be. The Government is very much aware of the seriousness of the debt situation in rural industries, and it is because of this that the Government is carrying out such a survey. 
-Negotiations on, and the administration of, drought relief are carried on a State by State basis. When the incidence of drought reaches a proportion unmanageable for a State's finances the State concerned makes application to the Commonwealth for assistance. Sometimes this assistance is on a $1 for $1 basis; at other times it may be total Commonwealth assistance. In Queensland, where the incidence of drought has been severe and continuing for a good many years, drought relief has been extended to help those in dire need. What has happened in Queensland in relation to local government authority rates has happened as a result of a request made by Queensland for Commonwealth assistance in this direction. The Commonwealth agreed to give assistance to cover 50 per cent of local government authority rates in areas which have had at least 2 drought years out of the last 5 years. Certain other prescribed qualifications are laid down. This Commonwealth assistance was given after negotiations and discussions with the Queensland Government. If the incidence of drought continues to be of the same severity in New South Wales as it is in Queensland I imagine that New South Wales will make a request to the Commonwealth Government if it is beyond the State's capacity to provide the necessary relief. But up  to  now the effect of the drought has not been as severe on State finances in New South Wales as it has been on Queensland's finances. I come back to my original statement that this matter is dealt with on a State by State basis. 
For the information of honourable members I present the interim report of the Australian Meat Research Committee for the year ended 30th June 1970. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Negotiations commenced in 1962. 
Detailed cases seeking the lifting of the quarantine prohibition  on  the entry of Australian fruit have been submitted lo the Japanese authorities in 1962, 1963. 1965 and 1967. In addition, numerous discussions have taken place in Tokyo between Australian officials and Japanese authorities and in Canberra with Japanese Embassy officials. 
In 1963, an extensive tour of Australian fruit growing areas was made by two Japanese officials to examine the quarantine position at first hand. They were accompanied for the entire tour by 
Commonwealth and State technical officers who gave them comprehensive and detailed material relating to our case. 
During 1968, the Japanese Government provided precise information as to what their disinflation requirements were and this has been the basis for subsequent investigations undertaken by the Fresh Fruit Disinfestation Committee. 
The latest written response from the Japanese Government to a formal Australian proposal for the entry of citrus was in September 1968. However, discussions in July 1970 between my Departments' Chief Fruit Officer (Exports), who visited Japan, and Japanese Plant Quarantine Authorities have confirmed that there are no indications of a relaxation of the refusal to permit the entry of Australian citrus. 
The South African Government has convinced the Japanese Plant Quarantine Authorities that it can satisfactorily treat oranges against infestation by Mediterranean fruit fly. 
In the South African situation there exists only one pest of concern to the Japanese quarantine authorities, namely Mediterranean fruit fly. However, in the case of Australian citrus two pests are involved, namely Mediterranean and Queensland fruit flies. The Japanese authorities require one common treatment for both and have laid down the levels of disinfestation that must be achieved by any proposed treatments. The Japanese authorities also require that disinfestation treatments for Australian fruit be developed in Australia because there is, it is claimed, the possibility that the same species of fruit flies in different countries may react differently to the same treatment. 
The Fresh Fruit Disinfestation Committee, a group consisting of Commonwealth and State technical officers has made considerable progress in determining disinfestation treatments against Queensland fruit fly and will soon extend this work to Mediterranean fruit fly. The purpose of the programme is to find satisfactory methods of treating citrus to ensure that no fruit fly is present in export citrus fruit. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Further discussions between Commonwealth and Queensland fisheries officers took place in Brisbane during March on a range of outstanding administrative and policy matters. So far as the Gulf of Carpentaria prawn fisheries were concerned, the officers agreed that there should be consultation between the Commonwealth and Queensland before any new processing establishments were approved. 
With regard to the proposals formulated at me meeting of Commonwealth and Queensland officers in May 1969, both Governments have now agreed ob the steps to be taken and will take the necessary legislative action in due course. 
1 expect that extensive legislative changes will be made by both Governments in the near future but until these are introduced, it would not be appropriate for me to comment further. Several administrative changes have been made, including approval of the concept of carrier boats to work between the fleet and a nominated shore plant and the necessary licence conditions to give effect to this concept As well, new boat licences now being issued automatically give effect to the policy of limiting the number of processing boats in the fishery and prohibit die transfer of fish to unlicensed boats. 
A us stralian Navy: Papua and New Guinea (Question No. 1477) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2), (3), (4) No such reports have been received. 
 The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
The dates and venues of meetings of the Australian Agricultural Council held during the last year are as follows: 
Yes, I have received a report elaborating on the proposals from the Australian Wool Board's advisory committee relating to a number of aspects, one of which was a single marketing authority. As announced in the Budget speech, the Government authorised me to undertake a study with the industry in order to elaborate on the proposals put forward by the Australian Wool Board. I asked  Sir John  Crawford who is a very noted Australian and who was also the Vice  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board's advisory committee whether he would undertake this task in conjunction with the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Marketing Corporation and assisted where need be by my Department and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics.  Sir John  Crawford has completed that study and he gave me his report yesterday. This matter is before me now and it will go before the Government in the near future. I will be asking the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board,  Sir William  Gunn, to see me so that I can present the report to him. The Australian Wool Board will then be able to consider it. But I would like to assure the honourable member and all members of this House that the matter will be handled as expeditiously as possible. 
Let me say here and now that there would be objections. I think I would be supported by all Queensland members of Parliament, particularly those representing sugar growing areas - areas whose incomes are dependent on the sugar industry. In fact, most of the development of northern Queensland depends on the sugar industry. About 50 per cent of the population north of the Tropic of Capricorn is dependent on the sugar industry. This issue was debated years ago and an agreement was reached between the Commonwealth and Queensland that responsibility for the production of sugar would lie with the Queensland Government. It was agreed that concessions would be granted to Australian manufacturers to enable them to obtain sugar at world prices for products manufactured for export and that there would be a sugar rebate for certain manufacturing industries producing for the domestic market. That agreement has enabled Australia to develop a very large sugar industry - one which is unequalled in the world. It is a highly efficient industry from the point of view of production of sugar per ton of cane as well as from the point of view of production per acre. The degree of mechanisation in the industry is the equal of that in any agricultural industry in the world. 
There was a stabilisation scheme for the dried vine fruits industry. The scheme operated for 5 years. Negotiations to continue the scheme were held last year. The negotiations provided for what appeared to be an obvious Commonwealth subvention to enable the stabilisation scheme to operate for the next 5 years. There was a potential commitment of at least $6m bythe Commonwealth at present world prices and costs of production in Australia. A poll of growers was taken to see whether they wanted the scheme to continue. Unfortunately there was a lack of enthusiasm in soliciting support of the industry for the stabilisation scheme. 
There were dissident elements who felt that the scheme was not satisfactory, that it did not go far enough and that there should be a completely different stabilisation scheme. The outcome was that the scheme was rejected, not because of a negative vote but because of apathy on the part of the dried fruit vine growers to have a poll of sufficient producers to give SO per cent support by the industry. There was a positive vote but it was by only a minority group of growers and as a result the proposal was rejected. There is now no stabilisation scheme for the dried vine fruits industry, which I feel does not have a very comfortable future in the absence of a stabilisation arrangement. With the pressures that are being put on the International Sultana Agreement and the arguments that are taking place between Greece and Turkey, the two major countries involved in it, the agreement is left somewhat in jeopardy. I hope that the Australian dried vine fruits industry will reconsider the situation. Certainly if the growers come to me and ask for another referendum I will put it to the Government for consideration. But I hope that the Australian dried vine fruits industry will not come forward with a whole lot of new and radical changes to the stabilisation scheme, hoping foran even bigger Commonwealth subvention for such a scheme, because the one that has already been offered to them is, I believe, reasonably generous. 
For the information of honourable members I present an interim statement of the activities of the Australian Egg Board for the year ended 30th June 1970. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
I have seen a report in the newspaper that there is a frozen vegetable producers association and that it has come to an arrangement with processors for the orderly marketing of their products to help them and also the producers of these vegetables, particularly the producers of peas. 
At the moment I think 26 meat works have been struck off the list of meat works able to export beef to the United States market. This figure varies from week to week as certain abattoirs are delisted and others are relisted, so the position is in a continual state of flux. Regarding mutton, all meat works have been deregistered and 3 have been reregistered. I believe some more are coming up for consideration, but as each one of the abattoirs can meet the standards required by the Americans so too can it be submitted for re-inspection and relisting. Regarding the Wyndham meat works, an American inspector went there on 10th September and found certain deficiencies. The meat works did not conform to the requirements laid down by the United States Inspection Act and regulations, and we were informed on 17th September that it would be delisted and that meat would no longer be accepted from that works. I have made arrangements with the Americans to have a senior veterinary officer of my Department along with a senior United States veterinary officer inspect the works. I believe that that will be done at the latter part of this week. They can jointly examine the works and every action can be taken to have it re-submitted as soon as possible. 
The Government had negotiations with the dairy industry at the beginning of this year and discussed the serious problem of overproduction, or production surplus to what could be disposed of. We stated to the industry that we were not prepared to underwrite the guarantee of 34c per lb of commercial butterfat for unlimited production. In the course of negotiations with the Australian dairy industry it was agreed that the Government would provide a guaranteed price of 34c per lb up to a total production of 220,000 tons of butter and 70,000 tons of cheese. But in providing that guarantee we stated that there was an obligation on the dairy industry to restrict its production to that level and that no finances would be made available for production in excess of those amounts. If the dairy industry produces in excess of those amounts it will have to make its own arrangements for finance because the Commonwealth will not be involved and I cannot say what factories will pay their suppliers if they exceed that production level. 
We gave this guarantee on a 1-year basis on the understanding that the dairy industry would have a deep look at how it might control its production or restrain the increase in production that is taking place. We suggested that it look at the possibility of quota arrangements. The dairy industry at the moment is consulting with the universities to try to formulate a satisfactory scheme. It is having its own internal discussions and I am hoping that by about November this year the industry will have brought forward some proposal that can be studied by both the Government and itself. 
I want to emphasise that there is a serious long term problem for the dairy industry. It must somehow or other gear itself to be able to control its production in an orderly fashion. If Britain should enter the European Common Market we will have to find alternative outlets for the butter that we presently dispose of in Britain. There will be a serious problem. Production will have to be tuned back because there is no other available outlet. It is up to the dairy industry to recognise this problem and to try to come forward with a plan. 
Yes, I did see the statement in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' this morning.I opened my newspaper and saw the headline 'New Wool Sale Plan' and thought: 'This is of interest; I will read it.' I read it only to find that it was supposed to be the wool plan thatI have before the Government. But I did read with particular interest that this article stated everybody's point of view. I thought: "That is interesting; maybe I missed the Cabinet meeting.' But all I want to say is that that was a purely speculative article in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' and one must accept it as that. I have no comment to make on the plan that is at present before the Government. I realise the importance of handling it quickly and I am sure the Government will handle it without avoidable delay. Yesterday the Prime Minister answered a question in relation to another rumour that the Government was considering suspending the auction sales. This again was a rumour. It is important to have this question finalised quickly one way or the other and I am sure the Government will do so. 
The Commonwealth Government is aware of the serious position in Queensland, particularly in the wool industry, because of the severe economic conditions prevailing, that is, the low wool prices and the drought. As a result, a large sum of money has been made available for drought relief to that State. In addition, the Commonwealth has announced that $30m will be made available for emergency relief to wool growers whose income has declined severely in the last financial year as against income during the year 1968-69. Quite a substantial part of this $30m no doubt will go to graziers and wool growers who are suffering in Queensland. 
It was announced also in the Budget that I and my Department were to carry out an examination of the debt problem in rural industries. I know that this is a severe problem in Queensland. A survey is not something that one can carry out quickly because finance in relation to rural industries is a very big question. Furthermore, it is an extremely complex question. ft is a question that does involve or would appear to involve the State Governments in possible ways and means of handling the question. Lastly, it is a matter which could involve governments in a considerable amount of expenditure in overcoming some of the problems that we have been told exist. 
The survey or the examination that is being carried out by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics will look at the extent of the indebtedness and will try to determine the degree of it in certain areas. The reasons or the cause of this indebtedness will be examined and the Bureau will make recommendations to me as to how the problem ought to be handled, but it is a matter that needs considerable examination. It is not easy to know how some of the matters can be handled. There is a great variation in the problem of indebtedness. Some people are at a stage of near bankruptcy, other people have a severe debt problem which they are finding difficult to manage and others see that their potential indebtedness could be quite severe. All of these aspects must be examined. They will be examined and recommendations will be made to the Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Government has paid the following amounts to the Australian Apple and Pear Board for compensation to the industry for losses sustained as a result of the November 1967 devaluation of sterling: 1968 season- $2,350,554.04 1969 season- $2,060,846.60 
Specific procedural arrangements have been adhered to for the payment of devaluation compensation from the Commonwealth Government to the apple and pear industry. 
To facilitate the payment of 1969 compensation to the industry, the Australian Apple and Pear Board maintained a special bank account to receive funds made available to it by the Department of Primary Industry. Disbursement of these funds took place after the Board's examination of applications submitted to it, and in doing so, the Board followed the general principle that the owner of the apples or pears at the time of export was entitled to the compensation. 
Whether the growers of the fruit or the exporters received  a  compensation payment depended on the industry suggestions to the Board on a State by State basis. These suggestions arose from discussions within the industry which, in turn, have led to industry arrangements which differ slightly between the States but which eliminate some causes of dissatisfaction evident at the time of the 1968 compensation disbursement 
and (4) It has been the practice of the Commonwealth Government to determine rates of devaluation compensation on a separate basis for each industry. In the case of the apple and pear industry, the Government first of all established that the industry in general suffered demonstrable and unavoidable losses and has since been prepared  to  compensate equally, all those who exported to the United Kingdom in subsequent years. This undertaking to the industry has been regardless of whether or not certain individuals exported to that market prior to the devaluation of sterling. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Bounties were payable from the Sultana Stabilisation Fund and the Raisin Stabilisation Fund for the 1968 season, the last season of the Dried Vine Fruits Stabilisation Plan. The aggregate amounts involved in these payments were $294,666.70 for sultanas, and $9,451.61 for raisins. These were paid to the Dried Fruits Stabilisation Committee Ltd on 15th July 1970. 
Folowing these payments the three funds (Currants, Sultanas and Raisins) were wound up and the moneys remaining returned to the industry. The amounts involved were - 
I have listened to the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  expressing concern about northern meat works. I share with him the concern for producers who supply those works, the people who manage them and the staff employed. They depend more heavily on the United States market than do other meat works in Australia. Therefore, anything that tends to react against their being able to get access to this market naturally disturbs them. Possibly of all the many difficulties I have none frustrates me and produces tensions within me more than do the current problems I have with the meat industry in relation to the quotas to various countries, particularly the United States; access to markets such as the Canadian market; inspection standards required and inspection staff: and hygiene standards required within the abattoirs. There is a never ending stream of problems. But we face up to them and do what is humanly possibly to ensure that these works can continue to operate. 
I know that many people would like to explode completely and tell the Americans what they think of them. But the Americans happen to be the buyers. This is an enormous market for the Australian meat industry - a very valuable one. This year something like $280m worth of meat is being exported to that market. No other market in the world compares with it either in the quantity of meat than can be sold or the value we get from it. I would caution against being over-critical of the Americans. No vindictive campaign is being directed at Australia. At present there is a national issue in the United States of America regarding food standards and the way food is prepared. It is related to the whole question of the quality and standard of life and such associated problems as pollution and what have you. 
As a result of the debate in the United States on food standards the Federal Government has in that country been required to introduce legislation - the Meat Industry Inspection Act - to give it authority to register those State abattoirs which wish to trade across State borders. Unless a meat works has federal registration it is unable to trade across State borders. The federal authorities in the United States are enforcing this policy, and this has brought about considerable reaction from and antagonism with the State authorities. This matter is being debated in Congress and in the Senate. As a result, pressure is being put on the United States Administration to ensure that no meat is imported which has been prepared to a lesser standard than that which is required of meat works in the United States. I am, of course, prepared to believe that implementation of this policy was encouraged by the United Cattlemen's Association. However, I do not accept that this is the principal reason for the high standards which the Americans are demanding of us. The unfortunate thing is that the high standards which are being set in the United States are tending to influence world standards. We are finding that there is a reaction in Canada and in the United Kingdom whenever we are unable to produce meat of the standard required by the United States. Other countries are also starting to question whether they should accept meat of a lesser standard than that which the United States accepts. 
The honourable member should have been listening because I have just referred to this aspect. Any meat crossing interstate borders in the United States has to comply with federal registration standards. This is the reason why pressure is being applied on foreign countries which export meat because meat standards are a major issue within the United States. Some countries have been completely banned from exporting meat to the United States market because their works cannot come up to the standards required nor do they have an inspection service which meets the requirements of the United States. I would say that Australia has probably a better record than any other country of being able to upgrade its works and maintain a supply of meat to the United States market. 
I give an assurance to the producers in Australia that the Department of Primary Industry will do everything possible to ensure that meat works in Australia comply with the requirements which are being demanded of us by the Americans. Unless we do this the Americans will take their own action and de-list our works. Once they de-list our works we cannot get them back onto the list without the approval of their inspectors. In other words, the standards required to be met in relation to the administration and inspection of these works would be taken out of our hands. Whilst on the one hand the Government is being severely criticised by some meat works for demanding that their standards be improved to a certain level, it is on the other hand being criticised by those meat works which have been struck off the list for not having policed the inspection standards severely enough. Immediately the meat works at Wyndham, to which the honourable member for Daw son referred, was struck off I had discussions with the Americans. It was agreed that a senior veterinary officer,  Dr Eckert  would fly out immediately from America and, with one of my own senior officers from Canberra, would go to Wyndham to inspect the works. This inspection is taking place today. I hope to have a report on it by the end of the week. I appreciate the importance of this meat works being kept in existence. But I must say that if it cannot come up to the required standards then something has to be done to improve those standards so that the producers in that area will have access to a works to dispose of their cattle. If they have not that access then a very serious problem is posed for them. 
It is unfortunate that the works were struck off towards the end of the killing season. I suppose it is fortunate that it did get through most of the killing season. Between now and next year the company and the Western Australian Government have an obligation to see what they can do to ensure that this works can be brought up to the standard required by the Americans if it has not passed the examination that has been undertaken in the last 2 days. 
Pursuant to section 18 of the Wheat Research Act 1957, I present  the 12th annual report of the activities- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Exporters are only required to advise the Meat Board of transfers of credits or debits. The question of sale or purchase of credits is one for each individual exporter. The total transfers registered with the Board between the commencement of the scheme on 1st November 1968 and 31st August 1970 were 160,769 tons. 
As indicated above the Board does not require exporters to advise it of purchases or sales of credits only the transfer . of credits or debits. Between. 1st November 1968 and 31st August 1970 exporters in the Kimberleys have, according to the Board's records, received transfers from other exporters amounting to 7,288 tons and transferred to other exporters 231 tons. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the diversification scheme credits are earned only on beef, veal and mutton. The percentage of credits earned in respect of those meats between the inception of the scheme in 
November 1968 and 31st August 1970, as recorded by the' Australian Meat Board, were as follows: 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
I have examined submissions by the Commercial Apiarists Association of South Australia alleging incompetency by the Board since its establishment in April, 1963, and consider that there is no substance in the allegations. 1 have also been informed that the Association represents only a small minority of Australian apiarists and has received no support for its representations from any of the major apiarists' associations in any State. 
I am well aware of the difficulties of the processing plant at Devonport in Tasmania to which the honourable member referred. All Australian abattoirs and processing plants which want to be listed for entitlement to export to the United States market come under the surveillance of United States inspectors from time to time, and there is a responsibility on my Department to see that these abattoirs are kept up to certain requirements laid down by the United States Wholesome Meat Act. However, recently the Americans have been sending their own inspectors out to do this work, and in cases where they have found conditions unsatisfactory for a variety of reasons they have called for the delisting of these plants. 
The plant referred to at Devonport is one such plant. Whilst certain play has been made of a few of the minor faults found, there are some difficulties with these plants as to their structural design and requirements. But wherever one of these problems arises officers of my Department confer immediately with the Americans and the company involved to see what can be done to overcome the difficulties. At the moment, rather than go into any details, I think it would be much wiser for all concerned if this matter were discussed with officers of my Department, the Americans and the company involved. 
Because of the difficulties in the rural community, farmers and farmer organisations have been requesting more and more information so that they can adjust their own production levels or diversify according to what they think will bring them the best income. A great deal of information already is given out by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics which regularly issues publications such as Wheat Outlook' and 'Wool Outlook'. The problem is getting this information  to  the people who really need it. 
The Government has decided to assist in this operation by having what is known as an annual agricultural outlook conference. This conference will be convened by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. It will include State government representatives, extension officers, officers of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and members of agricultural organisations who will gather together. Industry organisations and markets ing bodies will present papers. Governments will present papers. A general discussion will take place. The information so collected will be given the maximum publicity and circulation. 
The use of this information will help governments and primary industry organisations to develop their own agricultural policies. But it will help also the primary producer to make a better judgment as to how much and what he should produce. I must emphasise again the point that T have made time and time again, that is, that the Government will not be telling primary producers what they should produce or should not produce. This is a matter for their own judgment. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
and (2) Although the Australian Wool Board was recently empowered to borrow money for the financing and/or the construction and equipping of integrated wool selling complexes (referred to by the honourable member as 'wool villages'), it has not been charged with the exclusive responsibility for the establishment, of such complexes. The Wool Board will facilitate or undertake this task only where the wool trade, including the selling brokers, wishes the Board to do so. Any borrowings that may be made by the Board for this purpose will require the approval of the Minister for Primary Industry with the concurrence of the Treasurer. 
The first stage of a wool complex is now being constructed at Yennora by three Sydney wool selling brokers. The other Sydney brokers have indicated that they will transfer their operations to Yennora when they are able to realise satisfactory prices for their existing wool stores at Pyrmont. So far, the Australian Wool Board has only been concerned in assisting in the planning required as well as in seeking a solution to the Pyrmont stores disposal problem. 
It is estimated that 98 per cent of the wool received at Yennora will be by direct rail delivery. The proposal 'to concentrate all dumping facilities on the Yennora site and the combined rail/road delivery rate being offered by the New South Wales Railways for delivery to Sydney wharves is likely to ensure that about 90 per cent of the wool handled will leave the site by rail. Consequently, the bulk of any increase in road traffic in the adjoining residential areas will be from the private vehicles of persons working in the complex. As the perimeter of the site is almost three miles, it will be possible to provide sufficient entrances and exits to avoid traffic congestion. 
Access to the nearby major traffic artery, the Hume Highway, will probably be through the industrial area to the south of the complex site. Any heavy vehicle traffic is likely to be in this vicinity since the wool dumping and container filling facilities will be situated on the southern edge of the site. 
These arrangements should ensure that inconvenience to residents in the areas adjacent to the wool village is kept to a minimum. 
The planning of industrial development sites and the roads serving these fall within the province of the State and Local Government bodies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The basic provision of the French Plan is the imposition of a two-tier levy system on hens. -A low rate of levy is to be imposed on a specified quota of hens for each producer aid a much- higher rate of levy on each hen in excess of the quota. The high level levy is to be an absolute economic deterrent to holding hens in excess of the quota. 
Yes. 
When these proposals were placed before the Agricultural Council, State Ministers agreed that the levy recommended by the industry could be imposed only by the Commonwealth. The Ministers considered, however, that if the proposed levy system were imposed by the Commonwealth it would certainly be successfully challenged on the grounds that legislation to limit production was beyond the constitutional powers of the Commonwealth. 
I would not support any proposal which prevented a farmer from selling his farm as he sees fit. If a proposal is to be contemplated which prevents any large scale combines or companies involved in the poultry meat industry from entering the egg industry, this could be achieved only by uniform State legislation, as production controls are beyond the constitutional powers of the Commonwealth. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand asked me whether I am aware of the difficulties of exporting meat to the United States market. I am afraid that I would have to be dead not to be conscious of them. I am badgered on all sides by the many problems that are facing the exports of Australian meat, particularly to the United States market. All of these problems are centred on the killing, dressing and processing of Australian meats to meet the standards required by the American Government. One has to realise that the Americans are the buyers and that they are laying down the standards. They may bc severe. Unfortunately this is the trend today. The public is demanding the highest protection possible in relation to the quality of food that is coming on to the market. What we have to do is try to meet those wishes. If we do not meet them we stand a severe risk of losing a most valuable market for Australian meat, a market which is taking approximately threequarters of our production. If we did not have that market we would have to sell our meat on a lower market and indeed it is not easy to find alternative markets quickly. Whilst there are enormous difficulties^ - I understand the stresses and strains that these are placing on everyone - I also want to see Australia try to meet the demands that the Americans are making providing that these demands are reasonable and sensible. Indeed, these demands are by no means greater than those being made on American abattoirs if they want Federal registration. 
The honourable member also asked a question about New Zealand inspectors who have been brought in to relieve the situation. He said that Australian inspectors have complained. Why are we doing this? We are bringing inspectors from New Zealand to try to give Commonwealth meat inspectors recreation leave. I have spoken to the honourable member about this matter in the House before. Because we have made an arrangement to bring New Zealand meat inspectors to Australia to enable Commonwealth meat inspectors to take leave, our meat inspectors have complained. For a period of time they used very strong language because we made this arrangement. The Commonwealth meat inspectors at one stage did not want the New Zealand inspectors at all. However, if inspectors were not brought from New Zealand, meatworks would have to close down completely and workers in those places would be dismissed. Also, the producers would not be able to sell their meat and the price would collapse. There has to be a little bit of sense, reason and compromise by all parties to try to see that meat is handled in a sensible way and we are able to continue to export. In regard to obtaining increased benefits for Commonwealth meat inspectors, I and my Department have done everything possible by way of an approach to the Public Service Board to have their conditions improve. I have already mentioned in this House that considerable improvements have been made to their job and we will continue to do what we can to see that their position in relation to other jobs in the community is kept at a satisfactory level. 
1 have heard of some stupid ideas, but very few exceed that one. We have a very good market for our beef, one which is the basis of the whole prosperity of this rural industry - one of the few rural industries at the moment which are going through buoyant conditions. If we did not have access to the American market I would hate to think what the circumstances of the meat industry in Australia would be in. relation not only to beef but to all other types of meat in this country. There is a problem of maintaining inspection standards, but I would like any member of this House to name another country that has done a better job in upgrading its abattoirs and its inspection service and maintaining access to the United States market than Australia has done. 
I saw figures showing that in 1968 approximately 800 foreign abattoirs were delisted from the American list. Australia lost 20. Some countries were completely delisted. Australia is still exporting approximately 50 per cent of the meat that is imported for the American market. It is up to responsible people in this Government to ensure that we continue to have access to that market. We will only have it provided if we can meet the hygiene standards that are required by the American Government. If it can be shown by American inspectors that there are deficiencies in our works and that they do not reach the standards required of them, then we have to do something about it. If these people And these deficiencies we should not squeal too much about it. because we will not win the argument if it can be proved that there are deficiencies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
I understand that a meeting was held early in August of this year in Sydney between representatives of the Australian Wool Marketing Corporation Pty Ltd and the New Zealand and South African Wool Commissions. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss technical matters of mutual interest associated with the wool marketing schemes operating in the 3 countries, including the operation of flexible reserve prices at wool auctions. 
The Government has before it a proposal for the establishment of a statutory authority to administer the marketing 'of the Australian wool clip. The proposal has been agreed upon in principle by the 2 federal woolgrower organisations and endorsed by the Australian Wool Industry Conference on the same basis. I should mention, however, that the proposal is not for a scheme of the type which operated during the 2 World Wars. 
The proposal as put to the Government was prepared by the Advisory Committee of the Australian Wool Board and contained only a broad outline of the proposed plan. Subsequently I arranged for  Sir John  Crawford, Vice Chancellor of the Australian National University, to comment and elaborate on the proposal submitted and to suggest details for its operation. In carrying out this task  Sir John  consulted various interests and organisations. 
I have recently received  Sir John's  report and it is now receiving the urgent consideration of the Government. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Marginal Dairy Farms Agreement Act 1970- 
I am very conscious of the growing difficulties of the small poultry farmer in obtaining a satisfactory net farm income. In recent years the governments of Australia have introduced a scheme controlled by the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities. This scheme has brought about a degree of stability and equalisation of prices, but the effect of the scheme in helping to stabilise prices has tended to create a decline as production has increased. There have been moves within the industry to try to bring about some control of production firstly, by the licensing of farms, and secondly, by the implementation of what is known as the French plan by which a supertax is imposed on anybody who produces more than his quota of eggs. Both of those proposals have been examined by the Australian Agricultural Council. The first proposal on the licensing of farms was rejected because there was no unanimity between the States on the proposal and a restriction on production could not work effectively unless all States were in agreement This agreement could not be reached. As to the second proposal, known as the French plan, it was shown to be unconstitutional for the Commonwealth to organise such a plan, so that was not workable. As a result of the Australian Agricultural Council having examined both proposals and deciding that nothing could be achieved, it felt that a firm decision should be taken and made known that there was not any likelihood of a quota system being introduced to control the production of eggs. The need to make a firm statement was to prevent people trying to boost their egg production level so that if a quota system did come into operation they would then be entitled to their higher quota. That is the situation obtaining at present. I have been told that New South Wales is again looking into some scheme of which I have no knowledge, but I do not know how any scheme can be brought into operation without the consent of all States. 
The question asked ii whether I think there would be any  t&gt;.  percussions in Australian sales of wheat  ic  China because Canada has now recognised her diplomatically. My answer is that I doubt very much whether it W1 make any difference. The fact is that we have been making very good sales to China since  s  first started making sales in 1960. During that period, Canada has talked of recognising China and of extending her diplomatic relationships with China, but this in no way has affected our sales. 
Indeed we have made larger sales to Mainland China than Canada has. Although in the last 12 months, we have sold 2.2 million metric tons of wheat to Mainland China as against a Canadian sale of 2.3 million metric tons of wheat to Mainland China, if one looks at the period since sales first started to Mainland China in September 1960, one sees that Australia has sold 19.7 million metric tons of wheal and Canada has sold 17.5 million metric tons of wheat to that country. 
I believe that China buys wheat where she gets the type she requires and at the prices that she considers most favourable to her for that type of wheat. If one wishes to speculate as to what might happen, one also can ask: What will be the consequences to Russia's sale arrangements - they have expired - and will Canada's recognition of Mainland China have any effect on Russia? I do not know. I doubt whether it would. Members of the Opposition seem to take glee in speculating on this sort of thing, but I think they are wasting their time. 
 Mr Speaker,  pursuant to section 17 of the Meat Research Act 1960-1968  I  present the Fourth Annual Report of the Australian Meat Research Committee for the year ended 30th June 1970. An interim report of the Committee was presented to the House of Representatives on 15th September 1970. 
-The answer to the Honourable member's question is as folows - 
The inter-Departmental Committee has not completed its examination of the matter.' 
The Committee was appointed by the Government as there are considerations involved which extended beyond the scope : of a Tariff Board enquiry.'. 
and (4) Thetrade policy issues and the question of consumerpreferences are among the matters which willbe considered by the interDepartmental Committee in arriving at its recommendation. 
Some time ago the Australian Wool Board set up a special committee to look into the problems of the. Australian wool industry. The Board prepared a report and submitted it to the Government. This report covered many aspects of the wool industry, including the establishment of a single statutory wool marketing authority. The Board also mentioned the need for an investigation into the general debt situation of wool growers. The Government examined the report and as a result it has now announced that it will introduce legislation to create an Australian Wool Commission. The Government also announced through the Treasurer's Budget Speech, that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics would be charged with carrying out an examination of the general credit situation of rural industries. The Bureau has done a very intensive job in the short period since the announcement was made in the Budget, and it is now preparing a report to present to me. I hope that this will be done in the near future. Once the report is presented we will be able to see where the problems are, highlight the difficulties and make recommendations to the Government as to how these problems can best be coped with. 
J was pleased to note over the weekend a statement by the Leader of the Opposition which also emphasised the need to do something in the area of rural indebtedness and the need for reconstruction of rural properties. I think it is delightful that he does catch up with the thinking of rural industries and the Government, although he might be three or four months late. The honourable gentleman generally trails behind the industry in his thinking. I think some of his remarks were quite unnecessary. The honourable gentleman accused the Australian Country Party of carrying out vendetta politics. He also said that the Country Party should be placing its attention on more constructive measures. I would think that more constructive measures designed to help primary industry have been taken in the last 2 years than ever before. The creation of a Wool Commission is evidence of the Government's desire to do more in the direction of marketing. The fact that we are carrying out this intensive investigation into indebtedness is an example of our general desire to do more. 
As the honourable member for Cowper is well aware legislation has been passed by this Parliament to enable $25m to be provided to the States for the reconstruction of marginal dairy farms. Already, 2 States have signed agreements. Only last week I tabled in this House the agreement with Queensland. Negotiations arc proceeding with Tasmania. That State has agreed to the general proposals and a few minor matters need to be resolved. In South Australia, there is a willingness to agree to the plan and 1 hope that negotiations can be concluded in the very near future. 
However, with New South Wales, a vacuum still exists. I have had no contact from New South Wales nor is there any evident willingness on its part to come forward and to negotiate with the Commonwealth. I find this a bit hard to understand particularly when we look at the sorts of terms and conditions which Queensland is making available now to its farmers. In the agreement tabled here last week, money is being provided to farmers who wish to leave the industry or who wish to amalgamate with neighbouring farmers. The term of that loan will be 25 years while the interest rate will be. I believe, 5 per cent, with 2 years non-repayment. I would think that these are pretty attractive terms to farmers around Australia and that many would like to have the advantage of them. 
I am hoping that dairy farmers in New South Wales in the near future might be able to have this advantage because it is of concern to see so many dairy farmers leaving the industry in parts of the State when, f believe, these families could be kept in business - they could stay on the land, perhaps not in dairying but in other forms of activity - by getting access to suitable finance which they have great difficulty in getting at the moment. 
The Government cannot announce any apple and pear stabilisation programme until it has satisfactorily concluded negotiations with the industry. As the honourable member knows, officers of my Department have been in consultation with the Australian Apple and Pear Board for a considerable time trying to work out a practical stabilisation scheme. I am pleased to be able to say that a plan has been presented to me by officers of my Department which they believe will be the basis of a satisfactory scheme. I have arranged with members of the Australian Apple and Pear Board to be in Canberra this coming Thursday when I hope to commence negotiations on this scheme. Much will depend on the results of those negotiations and my report back to Cabin st. I have no other comment to make but I hope that very soon a plan will be presented to the industry under which it can operate for the next 5 years. 
I am very much aware of the serious decline in wool .prices which have been receding even further in recent weeks. The average price for greasy wool in the last 3 months' was 29.74c a lb and this is a terribly low price. It is very difficult for many wool growers to continue to operate : profitably. During the last week we have seen also a serious decline in the price of the finer types. of Wool. The price of clean 70s and over - merino wool has dropped by about 7c. The price for 64s has -reached the low price of 62c per lb clean. This is the lowest price, for this type of wool since -weekly statistical records commenced in the early 1950s. So the serious plight of the industry is npt. underestimated by. the Go vernment. Indeed, all is being done to try to alleviate the situation which is an enormously difficult one to do much about. 
However, as has been announced, the Government is prepared to bring in legislation to set up an Australian wool commission. It has been the desire of the Government to introduce the legislation this session. Officers of my Department are conferring with the Parliamentary Counsel today to see whether it might be possible to have this legislation ready although I must admit it is a very lengthy drafting job and we have only a short time to run in this session. However, if this is not possible to introduce legislation this session I have asked my Department to see whether it might be possible to have some skeleton legislation brought into Parliament to enable the provisional establishment of a commission and also to enable the operations of a flexible revenue price scheme commencing with the next wool selling season. I want to give an assurance to honourable members and to the wool industry that every possible effort is being made by the Government to see that this legislation is introduced this session. 
If there is one sector of the Australian community that is feeling most severely the effects of increasing costs it is the rural sector. Any measure that could increase costs to the extent that the Minister for Labour and National Service indicated - by from 10 to 12 per cent - would strike the death knell for many farmers across the nation. For the Australian Labor Party and the Australian Council of Trade Unions to have a national policy which would foist a 35-hour week on this nation is, I believe, showing complete recklessness, irresponsibility and lack of sympathy for the problems of people in country areas. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. A considerable number of wethers tor slaughter has been supplied to Kuwait since 1960. 
Western Australia and South Australia. 
Details of total shipments from both States compiled from returns received by my Department are set out below: 
I am sure that the Opposition in moving that Standing Orders be suspended until legislation has been introduced to set up the Australian Wool Commission is raising a political facade. The Opposition has taken this course to cover its own political deficiencies. It is trying to conceal from the wool growers of Australia that it has not been very concerned or very active in proposing a wool marketing plan. Two things that took place this week have stirred the Opposition into some form of action. Firstly, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  spoke to the Australian Farmers Federation about the very serious position of the Australian wool industry. What the right honourable gentleman said has been widely reported across the nation today. The other matter was a question asked last Tuesday by the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King).  The honourable member asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  whether he would see that this legislation was passed by Parliament this year and if need be would he recall Parliament after the Senate election to see that the legislation was put through so that a flexible reserve price scheme could be operating for the next selling season beginning in January. This statement also received wide coverage across Australia. 
We have heard little comment from the Australian Labor Party about how it would handle the situation or about what its attitude is to the wool marketing proposal of the industry. It was with some pleasure that I heard the shadow Minister for Primary Industry, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  say today that he would help to facilitate the passage through the Parliament of legislation which this Government accepts is vital and urgent. Every possible step has been taken over the last 2 or 3 months to introduce this legislation in Parliament. One noted man,  Sir John  Crawford, was appointed to draw up a wool marketing scheme. It was decided that one man should undertake this task because this was the quickest way of doing it. A larger committee would have taken some considerable time. That distinguished gentleman did a remarkable job in writing up his proposals in a matter of a couple of weeks.  His  excellent report has been well received and highly commended by the industry. The Government dealt with and made a decision on this report within a week of receiving it. Within a week of the Government making this decision one of our major industry organisations had considered it; within 8 days the other major industry organisation had also considered it; and within 9 days the Australian Wool Industry Conference had considered it. All organisations accepted the report. With the exception of the Australian Wool Industry Conference, of which 3 members reserved their opinion on matters that were not of great substance, all the organisations unanimously accepted the report. 
The Australian Wool Industry Conference met and made its decision only last week. In the course of that week every effort has been made to prepare instructions to the Parliamentary Counsel to help him draw up what is a rather complicated and lengthy piece of legislation. The objective of the Government, of course, is to implement legislation dealing with the entire operations of the Wool Marketing Commission. When it appeared obvious that this was a most difficult and onerous task to place before the Parliamentary Counsel I suggested that maybe some skeleton legislation could be drawn up to enable a provisional commission to operate and in turn to permit a reserve price scheme to be introduced. To enable the Counsel to know exactly what the requirements were and to see whether these requirements had the support of the States we also had a meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council on Monday of this week. I have never known of such a rapid series of events leading to legislation coming into this House. The Parliamentary Counsel has spent a considerable amount of time, working until the late hours of the night and doing everything possible to enable this legislation to be presented. The Parliamentary Counsel has a great responsibility to see that this legislation is drawn up with precision, that it has legal standing and (hat it cannot be contested in a way which would frustrate the operations of the Commission. There are people with interests who might want to frustrate the operation of the Commission. Therefore, we have to be sure that it is legally sound. I have said in answer to a question in this 
House that it is my intention to do everything possible to see that this legislation is introduced. 1 believe that it will be introduced. However, this will result only from a tremendous amount of effort by a lot of people. 
The Opposition has moved a motion at this late hour to try to capitalise through what is virtually a triviality. The Opposition wants to extend the period that the Parliament is to sit. I believe this is really unnecessary because if it is possible this legislation will be introduced. I believe that the legislation will come in and I give the House the assurance that everything is being done to achieve this end. The honourable member for Dawson was advised this afternoon that a copy of the legislation will most probably be sent to him tomorrow night. No doubt, having received this advice, the honourable member believed that this was his last chance to get on the band wagon and that he had better move for the suspension of Standing Orders at least to show that the Labor Party has some interest in the Australian Wool Commission. 
Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  put: 
That the  question be  now put. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Nil during the last 5 years. The following notices are presently in force under the Whaling Act 1960-1966: 
No.1 - (Gazette, 18th May 1961)- Prohibition on taking of female whales accompanied by calves or suckling whales and on taking of right whales. 
No. 2- (Gazette, 18th May 1961) - Prohibition on taking or killing of  certain species of whales less than a specific size. 1964 - Close season for certain kinds of whales. 
No. 5- (Gazette,  1st  May 1964) Prohibition on taking or killing of humpback whales. 
Scientific data on various aspects of whale research has been transmitted to the Commission. A summary for the last 5 years follows: 1966 (a) Whale marking. In 1965 and 1966 Australia marked between one third and one half of the whales marked in the Southern Hemisphere. The marking data was forwarded to the Commission. 
At the meeting of the Sperm Whale Sub-committee of the Commission's Scientific Committee in Honolulu from 10th to 1 8th February 1966, the Australian representative submitted a progress report on Australian research during 1965, briefly outlining progress assessment of reproductive rales and growth, of determination of migration and distribution and of identity of stock composition. A document describing a method of preparing sperm whale teeth for age determination was also presented.  1967 Australia submitted a further progress report similar in scope (but up-dated) to the report submitted to the 1966 Sperm Whale Sub-committee and a document on standardisation of age readings from teeth. 1968 Australia submitted an extended summary of the results of recent research on the biology and status of sperm whales off Western Australia to the meeting of the Commission's Scientific Committee.In addition, a document on age determination of whales by examination of teeth was presented to a 'Meeting on Age Determination in Whales' in Oslo in February/March 1968. 1969 Australia reported to the Commission on results of an aerial survey from 1963-65 of sperm whales off the coast of Western Australia. 1970 The Australian representatives at the special meeting on Sperm Whale Biology and Stock Assessment in Hawaii March 1970, reported on the biology and status of the sperm whales off Western Australia and also presented details of new data in this field. 
In addition tothe information summarised above, Australia has each year submitted to the Commission, comprehensive details of commercial catch, effort, length and sex composition of whales and details of protected species sighted during the whaling operations. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Wine Overseas Marketing Act 1929-1966 I present the forty-second annual report of the Australian Wine Board for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
Pursuant to clause 8 of the Sugar Agreement 1969, I present the report on the operation of the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee for the period ended 30th June 1970, together with the Committee's financial statement and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
Pursuant to section 84 of the Wool Industry Act 1962-1967 I present the annual report of the Australian Wool Board for the year ended 30th June 1970, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. An interim report of the Board was presented to the House on 27th August 1970. 
Pursuant to section 36 of the Canned Fruits Export Marketing Act 1963-1968. I present the forty-fourth annual report of the Australian Canned 
Fruits Board for the year ended 3 1st December 1969, together with financial statements and the report of the AuditorGeneral on those statements. 
The matter of public importance that we are discussing today is one in which I think everyone would be interested. No doubt there is concern about the increasing costs which confront our exporting industries particularly, and also the increasing prices being charged consumers in Australia. It was a most interesting exercise to listen to the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  leading for the Australian Labor Party. He came into the House with a prepared rather pedantic speech. In fact its language was so unfamiliar to him that I doubt whether he prepared it. The Government received notification - at least I did - about half an hour before question time that this debate was coming on. 
The honourable member adopted a rather academic attitude to the question of inflation and how it should be tackled or managed. The crux of the question is this: How would the Labor Party manage the economy and the inflationary problem confronting this nation compared with the Government's record in that regard and its general approach to the problem of increasing costs? The honourable member leading for the Australian Labor Party ignored how his Party would approach the problem in practical terms but he suggested a somewhat theoretical approach of controlling wages and prices. While admitting that the Commonwealth had no power in that field he suggested that we should have a national referendum designed to take that power from the 
States and to confer it on the Commonwealth. Even if that were a possibility, is that the right approach to inflation? Let him tell me of one non-totalitarian country in the world which has succeeded in controlling inflation by controlling wages and prices. All that does is to foster and encourage illegal methods of trading, black marketing, under the counter prices and shortages of goods throughout the economy. Of course the honourable member made no mention of the disastrous and crippling effects of the Labor Party's policy of allowing unbridled demands for increases in wages; supporting and, in some cases encouraging, industrial lawlessness; and supporting the imposition of a 35-hour working week on this nation. That alone would have an almost crucifying effect on our rural industries. 
This Government has been very conscious of increasing costs and has managed the economy over the past 20 years in a way that is equalled by very few countries in the world. In fact the only country amongst the developed nations of the free world which has had a lower increase in inflation than has Australia is West Germany. Australia has had a magnificent record but over the last decade costs and prices have tended to go up because of increasing wage demands and the very high levels of employment that have been maintained. Let us imagine a Labor government in office. Let us imagine a Labor government fulfilling all of its extravagant promises - promises which would involve greatly increased Government expenditure - promises which could not do other than increase the inflationary pressures in our economy. 
The honourable gentleman has asked me to tell him a few of the Labor Party's promises. You name it, tha Labor Party has promised it. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has been going around the countryside promising regional development centres, promising to provide urban areas with better water and sewerage facilities, promising improved social service benefits and increased pensions. You name it, the Labor Party has promised it. There is no limit to what the Leader of the Opposition says can be given because he claims that there is no difficulty in giving it. If you seek to provide additional moneys for Government expenditure they have to be obtained either by increasing taxes - we never hear the Labor Party mention increased taxes - or by deficit financing which is the creation of money. Nothing is more inflationary than that. During the past year the Government has tried deliberately to reduce inflationary pressures within the economy. Through the operations of the Reserve Bank liquidity has been kept at a fairly low level although interest rates have been higher than one would wish them to be. 
One must recognise that the Government's ultimate objective is for this country to remain economically secure and to keep inflation at as low a level as is possible. The main thrust of the recent Budget was directed towards curbing the inflationary pressures within the economy. It had within it a very high domestic surplus which has a tendency to withdraw money from the economy. The Government adopted that policy because it is conscious of the serious effects of a high domestic surplus on our exporting industries, particularly the rural industries which are suffering the effects of declining world prices as well as increasing local costs. If any primary producer thinks that under another government his circumstances could not be worse than they are today let me say to him: Do not kid yourself too much. If the Labor Party comes into power and pushes ahead with its plan for a 35-hour working week it will be disastrous for you. 
It is pitiful to hear the honourable member for Dawson, who represents a rural electorate in the central area of Queensland in which there are cane growers and beef and dairy producers, say in this House that the 35-hour working week will have little effect on them. Let him go back into his electorate and justify that statement. Let him go back and talk to primary producers about increasing local government rates. What would happen to local government rates if a 35-hour working week were introduced? They would jump immediately by 10 per cent, 12 per cent or even 15 per cent. What about charges for electricity? What about water charges and charges for all the other service industries in country areas which have no capacity to absorb wage increases through increased productivity? How does a local government clerk increase his productivity? A shorter working week would be an additional impost on the ratepayers. I think all of us in rural areas are absolutely fearful of the consequences. 1 do not know how a member such as the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  can sit there idly supporting a 35-hour working week when the wool growers in his area must know the disastrous effect of this sort of policy. We have been given notice by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions that next year, after the Senate elections, will be the year of 35-hour working week and that the ACTU will try to bring it in by industrial trouble. There will be a series of running strikes across the country. No doubt the ACTU will be supported by the Labor Party, because it is in the Labor Party's platform that people should have a 35-hour working week. 
If there is one thing that is of concern to the people of this nation it is increasing costs, whether they be for food, rent or clothing. The housewife, the farmer and the businessman are all desperately worried about how they will keep pace with this situation. Nothing can accelerate it more than the policies of the Labor Party, which makes extravagant, wild promises without any consideration of their economic consequences. As I said, it does not matter what is mentioned, the Labor Party will promise it, and if the promise is not big enough it will make a bigger one still. Policies directed towards a shorter working week without a corresponding increase in productivity - and there are so many industries in which it is impossible to have increased productivity - will only produce severer effects on the consumers. The honourable member included consumers in his remarks. He said that consumer costs are going up. Is he arguing against the food producers charging higher prices? If their wages bill and transport costs are going up, do they not have a right to ask the consumers for a higher price? I have heard the honourable member for Dawson oppose in this House a move for increases in the price of wheat in Australia. 
You have done it. 
You opposed $1.71 a bushel as the domestic price and said that it should be $1.50. I suppose that if you follow that, you will oppose an increase in the price of sugar. 
The honourable member is saying that he does not oppose an increase in the price of sugar. Should there be an increase in the price of sugar? 
Right. He does not mind an increase in the price of sugar. It just shows how parochial he is. 1 wonder whether the rest of his Party supports that. Does he believe that there should be an increase in the price of butter in Australia? 
I move: 
That the Bil! be now read  a  second time. 
The object of this Bill is to establish  a  statutory body to be known as the Australian Wool Commission, empowered to operate a flexible reserve price scheme for wool sold at auction and to perform a number of other functions relating to the whole clip aimed at improving the marketing of Australian wool. I explain the background to the Bill. The idea of setting up a statutory wool marketing authority originated with the woolgrowing industry itself. As a result of a severe decline in wool prices during the last 18 months, strong advocacy arose among wool growers in Australia for a body which would strengthen the position of sellers and reduce the irrational fluctuations which occur in wool prices. The proposal for such a body was supported at mass meetings of wool growers throughout Australia. The 2 federal wool grower organisations - the Australian Woolgrowers' and Graziers' Council and the Australian Wool and Meat Producers' Federation - resolved to press for such a body as did the national body  of the wool growers, the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 
At the request of the Conference, a special Advisory Committee of the Australian Wool Board prepared an outline plan suggesting the principles on which a statutory wool marketing authority could be established. The special Advisory Committee of the Wool Board is a body representative of all sections of the wool industry including wool-selling brokers, wool buyers and wool textile manufacturers. The Advisory Committee recommended that a statutory body be set up and operated along the lines proposed in its report and this recommendation was adopted in principle by the Wool Board, the 2 federal wool grower organisations and the Wool Industry Conference. The report and recommendations of the Advisory Committee of the Wool Board were presented to the Government by representatives of the industry in July of this year The Government decided that it would be desirable to have an independent assessment made of the proposal by a highly qualified person who could also fill in the details of the broad principles recommended by the Advisory Committee. To this end, I arranged for  Sir John  Crawford, Vice-Chancellor of the Australian National University to undertake the task. 
After considering  Sir John  Crawford's comprehensive report the Government put to the industry the terms on which it would be prepared to set up a statutory wool marketing authority. These were accepted early this month by the 2 federal wool grower organisations and by the Wool Industry Conference which voted overwhelmingly for the implementation of the scheme. This, then, is the background to the Bill which we are about to consider. 
The need for establishing a statutory wool marketing authority with powers relating to the whole clip was argued in some detail in  Sir John  Crawford's report which has been made public. Wool marketing must be considered in the wider sense of the word which includes not only the method employed in the physical selling of wool but also embraces many other aspects such as the preparations and handling of wool for sale, its transport and the use of scientific and technological aids to increase efficiency in the marketing process. Even though the free auction system has been regarded as an efficient means of transferring wool from the producer to the user there is an urgent need for strengthening the position of sellers, that is wool growers, by eliminating the serious deficiencies which have developed in the auction system. These deficiencies have developed by its failure to keep pace with the changes which have taken place and will continue to occur in world commerce and business organisation. In particular some of the deficiencies which call for attention are: 
Under the present auction system wool growers are in a weak selling position as they have no means of effectively judging the strength of the market or of testing it. On the other hand, there has been a disturbing trend on the buying side, with a steady and alarming decline in the number of bidders at auction. There is no sign that this trend is at an end. 
There is no lack of evidence to demonstrate that auction prices are excessively unstable. Prices not only fluctuate over a season but often show considerable variation within sales and even within a single selling day. 
There is also evidence to suggest that many successful bids are below what the market is prepared to pay, due, in the main, to a decline in effective competition and in part to errors associated with the appraisal of wool. 
The periodic surpluses at some sales in both total quantities of wool and more especially in some specific types contribute to the demonstrable price instability of the auction. This is particularly so for wools affected by vegetable fault. The case for sensible regulation of the flow of wool onto the market has become increasingly obvious. 
Irrespective of what type of system is used for selling wool it is of paramount importance to ensure that the most modern and advanced techniques are applied to make that system as efficient as possible. As matters stand now, where the control of auction selling is decided upon jointly to wool growers, selling brokers and buyers there are obvious difficulties in obtaining a consensus of the interests concerned in order to obtain the ready application of new techniques. An example of the innovations needed is the development of commercially acceptable sampling and testing methods to enable the application of objective measurement of wool's characteristics prior to sale. It does not need much imagination to visualise the savings, particularly in handling costs, which could accrue from the sale of wool by sample. Also, as I mentioned previously, errors which occur in the appraisal of wool by subjective methods are an important factor contributing to instability in wool auction prices. It follows, therefore, that pre-sale objective measurement of wool would be an important aid in this regard. 1 might mention here that the Government attaches great importance to this aspect and as announced in . the last Budget it is providing about $1 1/2m for the development of techniques for pre-sale objective measurement and for trials to prove their commercial applicability. 
The auction system in itself cannot be held responsible for the depressed state of the wool market. This is the function of the relative strength of supply and demand. On the other hand, the introduction of a flexible reserve price scheme can help to reduce the instability of auction prices, prevent wool from being sold at sacrificial prices due to purely temporary slackening of competition and so avoid considerable losses to individual growers. 
Of equal importance is the confidence which a flexible reserve price system could engender in the market as a whole, particularly in the circumstances we are witnessing today. The psychological factors which operate in such circumstances lead buyers to hold off in bidding for fear that their competitors will obtain wool at a lower price later. In this way the decline in prices feeds upon itself. In situations of this nature there is a great need for a strong holder of wool who is able to exercise a restraining influence against these temporary depressive factors. In such a manner a measure of badly needed confidence can be restored to the market. For a body to perform this role it must have the necessary powers and standing and be backed with adequate financial resources. 
Similarly there is a pressing need for  a  body to pursue a positive programme of cutting the high costs associated with the handling, transport and marketing of wool. I have already referred to the advantages which can come from the pre-sale objective measurement of wool. Another is the establishment, where appropriate, of integrated wool selling complexes. Because of the many interests involved, a strong co-ordinating body is required to obtain early and tangible results in these and other fields. I shall now turn to outlining the main provisions of the Bill. 
The composition of the Australian Wool Commission is dealt with in Part II of the Bill, lt is proposed that the Commission should consist of 7 members comprising a  Chairman,  2 members to represent Australian wool growers, a Commonwealth government representative who would be drawn from the Public Service, and 3 other members. The 3 other members would be persons with special qualifications. They would be required to have experience in the fields of marketing of wool or wool products; in the processing of wool or the manufacture of wool products; or in commerce, finance or economics. All members, including the  Chairman,  would be appointed by the Minister for Primary Industry. The  Chairman  would be a full time member appointed for a period of 5 years. All other members would be part time and would be appointed for a period of 3 years. 
The  Chairman  would be appointed by the Minister after consultation with the Australian Wool Board. The 2 wool grower representatives would be appointed after consultation with the Australian Wool Industry Conference. The 3 members with special qualifications would be appointed after consultation with the Wool Board. Provision is made in the Bill for the appointment of an interim  Chairman  pending the appointment of the full time  Chairman.  The main reason for this provision is to facilitate the early inauguration of the Commission as it may take some time to secure a person suitable and willing to serve as a full time  Chairman.  Provision is also made in the Bill for the appointment by the Minister of a  Deputy Chairman  from amongst the members of the Commission. 
The Government gave careful consideration to the composition of the Commission and concluded that in the interests of efficiency it was necessary to keep the membership as small as possible, consistent with the need to obtain an adequate range of skills relevant to the work of the Commission. In view of the nature of the functions of the Commission, it is considered that the main emphasis should be placed on commercial and technical skills. I am sure that it will be agreed that every endeavour must be- made to secure for the Commission men of the highest expertise and ability. The Government recognises the importance of maintaining a close liaison between the Commission and the Australian Wool Board because of the relationship between the functions of the 2 bodies. For this reason the Bill provides that the  Chairman  of the Commission should automatically become a member of the Wool Board. 
The functions and powers of the Commission are dealt with in Part III of the Bill. The principal function of the Commission is to operate a flexible reserve price scheme in respect of wool offered for sale at auction. I should like to emphasise that the reserve price scheme operated by the Commission would be on a flexible basis and not one with reserve prices fixed for a whole season. Under the scheme reserve prices for the various types of wool offered at auction would be determined daily or at less frequent intervals. Reserve prices would be determined having regard to the most recent prices bid by commercial buyers at auction and after taking into account all market intelligence available to it. If the bidding on any lot did not reach the Commission's reserve price, the Commission would be prepared to purchase the wool at that price. Wool so purchased by the Commission would be re-offered at auction or otherwise disposed of by the Commission. The grower would retain his right to place his own reserve price on his wool, except in the case of wool included in the price averaging plan or voluntarily pooled. 
The purpose of the flexible reserve price scheme would not be to defy or force the market but to test it with the objective of securing the best price obtainable at the time and of minimising the losses associated with the growing instabilities in the auction system. The operation of the scheme in this way should mean a significant reduction in sales crf wool at under-valued prices, in relation to prevailing rates, and the prevention of sales of individual lots when bidding on those lots has ceased to be competitive; that is preventing the occurrence of 'potholes' in the course of auction sales. The Government decided that no quantitative or financial limits should be placed on the amount of wool which could be purchased and held by the Commission, as such a limitation could adversely affect the operations of the Commission. For example, to declare and publicise a fixed limit to the level of stocks which the Commission would be permitted to hold could lead to embarrassing pressure on the Commission as stocks approached or were thought by buyers to be approaching the fixed limit. 
On the other hand the Government, because of its financial commitments under the scheme, to which  1  will reFer later, must be assured that the Commission pursues a sound policy in its wool market operations. To this end the following provisions are included in the Bill in respect of the reserve price and re-selling policies of the Commission: A government representative is to be on the Commission; the government is to have the right to appoint the  Chairman  and the  Deputy Chairman  of the Commission; the Commission is to report fortnightly to the Minister for Primary Industry and the Treasurer on its reserve prices, on wool purchased and held by it, as well as sales of wool made and proposed offerings; the government is to have the right to issue directions to the Commission on its reserve price and reselling operations when this is considered necessary. Steps would, however, be taken to provide the Commission with guidelines in respect of its reserve price and re-selling operations so that the provision for directions need be invoked only as a last resort. 
To assist it in the operation of its reserve price scheme, the Commission is empowered to establish and operate a market intelligence unit. Since the flexible reserve price scheme will not involve long range price forecasting, this unit will be primarily concerned with the examination of short term developments which affect wool prices. The Bill provides for the Commission to take over the functions of The Australian Wool Marketing Corporation Pty Ltd. These functions include the formulation of standards of clip preparation for wool sold at auction or otherwise and the making of arrangements to secure their observance; the elimination of small lots (except specialty wools) from sale at auction to the extent desirable; the operation of a Price Averaging Plan for wool from small lots; the payment of advances to growers whose wool is included in the Price Averaging Plan; the operation of the Wool Statistical Service; and the operation of a scheme for the voluntary registration of woolclassers. 
The Commission is to be given the following additional functions and powers under the Bill: 
To operate, when judged appropriate by the Commission, a voluntary pool for wool other than that in small lots (that is, for wool in lots exceeding three bales) and pay advances to owners of such wool: 
To formulate the terms and conditions governing the sale of wool at auction and make arrangements for their adoption: 
To make arrangements concerning wool auction sale, rosters and offerings and to pay advances to growers the sale of whose wool has been delayed because of the arrangements made by the Commission. Provision is made in the Bill that the Commission in exercising this function will not direct wool from one selling centre to another except within such limits, or in such circumstances, as are approved by the State Government concerned: 
To have power to sell wool outside the auction system or have wool processed before sale in cases where such wool cannot be sold advantageously at auction. This provision means that the Commission will have power to dispose of any wool purchased by it, or entrusted to it, in any way the Commission deems fit. The Commission is empowered to purchase wool in two ways - through the operation of its flexible reserve price scheme after the wool had been offered at auction or, with the consent of the grower, before the wool is offered at auction in cases where it is considered that the wool cannot advantageously be sold at auction. In the latter case, the Commisison would pay the grower a price equivalent to its most recent reserve price for the particular type of wool or such higher price as the Commission may determine: 
To encourage the progressive adoption of proven and practical technological aids to more efficient wool marketing. Examples of the aids envisaged are the pre-sale objective measurement of wool and, in cooperation with the Australian Wool Board, the establishment of integrated wool selling complexes: 
To register firms at present operating outside the auction system which purchase wool direct from growers and sell it to local and overseas buyers, and obtain from these firms information on matters such .is the type, yield and price of wool handled by them. The precise nature of the information to be supplied would be subject to the approval of the Minister for Primary Industry. The information provided by the individual firms will be treated by the Commission as strictly confidential. The reason for obtaining this information is to enable the Commission to keep the private buying and selling of wool under review and assess its effects on price formation in the auction system: 
To make recommendations to the Government for suitable action to be taken if and when it can be clearly demonstrated that private buying and selling is having detrimental effects on wool marketing generally: 
With the approval of the Minister for Primary Industry, to participate in negotiations concerning charges associated with the marketing of wool, including freight rates: 
To co-operate with authorities and organisations in other countries in measures aimed at more efficient marketing of wool. An important matter envisaged under this function is to consult with the New Zealand and South African Wool Commissions in the operation of their flexible reserve price schemes: 
To co-operate with the Australian Wool Board and other authorities and organisations in regard to wool promotion and research, including inquiries into methods of marketing wool: 
Such other functions conducive to the object of the Bill including functions conferred by a State Act, as the Minister approves. 
I have had discussions with the State Ministers for Agriculture, through the Australian Agricultural Council, and they have expressed unanimous support in principle for the establishment of the Australian Wool Commission. 1 have raised with them some matters, which may ultimately require supporting State legislation, such as giving j compulsive power to the Commission to set the terms and conditions governing the sale of wool at auction; the control, if it should become necessary, of the private buying and selling of wool outside the  auction , system; and the enforcement of standards of clip preparation for wool sold outside the auction system for use within a State. The State Ministers have agreed to consider these matters and provision has been made in the Bill for possible State legislation. 
The Australian Wool Industry Conference has asked for an assurance that the Commission should not have the power to establish quotas on wool production in Australia. Such a power has never been envisaged for the Commission and, in any event, the Commonwealth Government could not, for constitutional reasons, confer it on the Commission without the approval of the States. The Commission will, of course, require adequate and reliable financial backing to carry out its functions. The Commission would need working capital for its activities involving the purchasing of wool and advances to woolgrowers as well as finance to meet its operating costs. lt has been estimated that the Commission might require in the region of Si 15m by way of working capital for a full year - to operate flexible reserve prices, make advances to growers etc. - and about $18.7m to meet its likely annual operating costs. I would like to mention that the assumptions used in making the estimates were on the libera] side and in practice the financial requirements could be smaller. Moreover, the estimates include the finance which is already required for the operations of the Wool Marketing Corporation, mainly for the elimination of small lots and the price averaging plan. Details of the estimated working capital requirements and of operating costs are set out in paragraphs 44 to 47 of  Sir John  Crawford's report which has been distributed to members of both chambers of Parliament and released to the public. However, the relevant extract from the report is available to those who require it. lt will be noted from the report that after allowing for the financial requirements of the present Wool Marketing Corporation the net additional working capital required is about $66m and the net additional operating costs are about $6m per annum. The total operating costs of $ 18.7m would represent S3. 12 per bale or 1.04c per lb. The net additional operating costs of $6.33m would be $1.06 per bale or 0.35c per lb. It should be mentioned that the estimates for operating costs include a component for possible losses which, of course, may not eventuate. 
The financial arrangements for the Commission are dealt with in Part IV of the Bill. The Bill makes provision for trading banks to participate in providing the finance required for the working capital of the Commission, and the Government would guarantee such loans as trading banks may make available to the Commission on acceptable terms and conditions. The Government would make available such finance as may be required by the Commission beyond any funds provided by the trading banks. In regard to the operating costs of the Commission, the Government would meet any losses resulting from the resale of wool purchased by the Commission. Such losses would include interest payable by the Commission on capital borrowed for purchasing wool as well as storage, handling and selling costs, as approved by the Minister, which could not be recovered from the resale of wool lt is quite probable that the Commission will make profits. The first charge on such profits would be for meeting any losses which the Government has borne on behalf of the Commission. Remaining profits would be set aside as a contingency for meeting any future losses. Profits and losses of the Commission would be calculated on a financial year basis and certified by the Auditor-General. (Extension of time granted). 
Provision is made in the Bill, however, for the Government to make advances to the Commission during a financial year for the meeting of losses and a suitable provision is made in the Bill for the appropriation of any funds which may be required for this purpose. In regard to the other operating costs of the Commission, the Government will continue to make available the funds required to meet one-half of the rehandling and brokers' administration charges for the elimination of one-, twoand three-bale lots covered by the present Price Averaging Plan. The Government's commitment for these costs is estimated at $3.7m in a full year. In regard to the voluntary pooling of wool, which would be an extension of the Price Averaging Plan, growers concerned would be expected to meet all the costs involved themselves. The balance of the operating costs . associated with the operations of the Commission comprises interest on money borrowed for making advances to growers, one-half of the rehandling costs and brokers' administration charges for the elimination of one-, two- and three-bale lots under the Price Averaging Plan and the total administrative costs of the Commission. These costs would be met by woolgrowers through appropriate deductions, by arrangement with woolselling brokers, from the proceeds of the sale of the growers' wool. 
I would like to make it clear that woolgrowers would not be called upon to make any contribution for the capital requirements of the Commission. Provision is made in clause 31 of the Bill that until 30th June 1971 there may be paid to the Commission out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund such sums as the Treasurer is satisfied are necessary for the Commission in carrying out its responsibilities under the Act. Normally, a limit would have been placed on the payments to be made but in the present case this has not been possible because of the difficulty of estimating, at this stage, the amount of money that may be required during the current financial year. Accordingly, to allow the Commission to commence operations without delay it was necessary to meet the situation by the provision made in clause 31. To protect the public interest, however, the Treasurer and the Minister for Primary Industry will closely scrutinize any proposals for payments to the Commission before approving them. Part V of the Bill covers miscellaneous matters associated with the opera tion of the Commission. These include provision for the employment of staff by the Commission; safeguarding the interests of staff now working for the Australian Wool Marketing Corporation who would be employed by the Commission, auditing of the accounts of the Commission by the Auditor-General; annual reports to the Minister on the operations of the Commission which would be required to be tabled in Parliament; and the provision for making regulations. 
In introducing this Bill the Government is acting in accordance with the wishes of the woolgrowing industry. The original resolutions passed by the woolgrowing industry organisations calling for the establishment of a statutory wool marketing authority used the term a 'single' marketing authority. This term was still used by the Advisory Committee of the Australian Wool Board in keeping with its terms of reference. The outline of the authority drawn up by the Advisory Committee and which was endorsed by the Industry and put to the Government clearly did not envisage a single body with monopoly powers to buy and sell the whole Australian wool clip, which the term 'single' implies. 
What was put to the Government was a body which should be given certain powers relating to the whole clip but working within the existing marketing arrangements in which a number of private firms carry out the physical task of selling wool. The Government has very largely adopted the proposals put to it by the industry and they have been embodied in this Bill. In considering this Bill, we should keep in mind the critical position in which the wool-growing industry now finds itself. Due to the catastrophic drop in wool prices over the past 18 months, the average price being received by wool growers today is the lowest for 24 years. On the other hand, wool growers' costs have increased very considerably indeed over this period. I think it can be said that the position of most wool growers is a parlous one and in many cases, due to the advent of drought, a desperate one. 
Because of the substantial contribution which wool makes to our export incomestill some 20 per cent despite the extremely low wool prices - and because of the almost total dependence of large regions of Australia on woolgrowing, the wool industry must, by all measures available, be restored to a viable condition. The Government considers that reform of the present marketing system, although not the complete answer to the problems facing the wool industry, can do much to safeguard woolgrowers against losses which they often sustain under the present marketing arrangements. The marketing reforms which this Bill aims to bring about, in conjunction with other measures now being pursued as a matter of urgency by the Government - such as debt reconstruction and farm adjustment - will assist materially in the rehabilitation of this great industry. 1 commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
The Opposition has suggested that the words an approved bank or from another lender' be omitted and the words 'the Reserve Bank' be inserted in lieu thereof. I do not see why this is necessary. The Reserve Bank is not excluded. An approved bank can be the Reserve Bank. Who knows which financial institution will provide the working capital? Nothing Is being lost. The Reserve Bank may be the appropriate bank. 
The clause states 'A member, other than the  Chairman  or the member representing the Commonwealth . . . 
Yes. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 19. 01.) The flexible reserve price scheme operated by the Commission shall be a scheme under which - 
from day to day, or as frequently us the the Commission thinks necessary, reserve prices for the various types of wool being offered for sale at auction are determined by or on behalf of the Commission, having regard to the bidding at recent auctions and to all other relevant information available to the Commission; 
if, in respect of any wool submitted for sale at auction in accordance with arrangements referred to in paragraph (d) of sub-section (1.) of the last preceding section, a bid equal to or greater than the appropriate reserve price determined by the Commission is not made, the Commission is prepared to buy the wool at the appropriate reserve price so determined; and 
the Commission, as and when it thinks expedient, re-offers for sale at auction, ' or otherwise disposes of, wool acquired by it under the scheme. 
I have listened with a great deal of interest to the way in which the honourable member for Dawson and the honourable member for Riverina have been defending the 35-hour week. They have said that it will have a very insignificant impact on the costs of primary producers. Indeed, yesterday the honourable member for Dawson said that it would mean only a one-eighth increase in the cost of farm labour, which would result in an increase of only 2ic per bushel in the price of wheat. The facts are that a  I2i  per cent or oneeighth decrease in working hours in a week would mean a one-seventh or 14.3 per cent increase in labour costs. I think it is a pity that the honourable member for Dawson did not make his calculations a little more accurately, because a man who has been involved in making a survey of costs in the wheat industry should know that there are more costs than just the costs of hired labour when taking labour costs into account. But this is the only cost which the honourable member took into account in arriving at an increase of 2c per bushel in the price of wheat. In fact, if one considers total farm labour costs, which include the labour costs of the owner or owners and his or their families, of share farmers and what have you, the increase in the price of a bushel of wheat would be not 2c but 6c. It is 6c a bushel, and if you take into account the effects of a shorter working week and the consequential increases in rates, freight charges, cost of materials and in many other directions, and consider the full impact of the 14.3 per cent, the increase is shown to be 13c a bushel and the effect on the profitability of the wheat farmer is quite disastrous. 
I suggest that honourable members could well look at the labour content of a few other industries to see the effect. If we consider the wool industry in the higher rainfall areas and accept the calculations that have been used in the survey, those involved in that industry would be faced with a 20 per cent reduction in net income. If you make your calculation on the total cost there would be a 40 per cent decline in their net incomes. In the dried vine fruits industry, if we consider again the labour content, there would be a reduction of one-third in net farm income. In the dairying industry there would be a reduction of 37 per cent in net income. It would mean a difference of 4c per lb for commercial butterfat at the farm gate. 
in reply- I would just like to make a few comments and answer a few questions which have been asked of me by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  We have heard a lot of speeches in this debate tonight, some of them very good ones. But the speeches which came from the Opposition side gave me the impression that they were giving grudging approval to this wool marketing scheme mainly, I suppose, because they do not have anything better to offer to the Australian wool industry. 
In his speech, the honourable member for Dawson, who led on the Opposition side in this debate, was more or less foreshadowing the amendments that he proposed to make to the Bill and listing a whole series of questions of which I will try to answer some. However, I thought the other speakers from the Opposition displayed a lack of study of the Bill. There was one exception in this regard, and that was the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun),  who is not a rural member. I think that possibly he made the best contribution to the debate from the Opposition side. I say quite genuinely that I believe he had studied the Bill and knew it thoroughly, although on a few occasions he did run wild and criticise us for not bringing in matters dealing with reconstruction of the industry and debt problems. However, I think we can forgive him for those few misdemeanours. 
The Labor Party has stated tonight that it has a wool marketing policy. It even went to the lengths of getting one of its members to read out a long document which is supposed to be its wool marketing policy. All I could gather from that document was along the lines of a description I once read of how the Labor Party formulates rural policy - that it is a hotch-potch of all the headlines they can pick out of rural newspapers. That is exactly what it was. If one tried to work out a wool marketing scheme from that statement then all I can say is: Let me know it is financed, because that is the basis of any wool marketing scheme. The very weakness of it was that, as Opposition members said, they would finance the stockpiling of wool out of a levy placed on growers, a fund that would accumulate over a period of 5 years. I ask honourable members how we would ever accumulate a fund of money from the wool growers today with the pitifully low prices that they are getting. It makes the scheme quite impracticable and unworkable. Members of the Opposition are hypocritical in saying that they have a wool marketing scheme. 
However, I do not want to provoke debate at this late hour. But I would like to thank many honourable members for making reference to my part in bringing this Bill forward. My only comment is that I am merely the fountainhead of a tremendous amount of work that has been done by a lot of people over quite a lengthy period in bringing this Bill before the House. I know it is regrettable that we have not had a wool marketing scheme operating before this but we cannot have a wool marketing scheme operating within Australia in peacetime unless it has the co-operation of the industry and the support of the States. The industry consists of more than just the wool growers. It involves the people who are responsible for the physical handling and the merchandising of wool, and I do not think one can ignore the end users as being part of the wool industry. I mention that many people are involved in this. We have a plan before the Parliament to be implemented as soon as possible. Although it has taken time I believe that with the effluxion of time it is probably a more complete wool marketing scheme than would have been devised if it had been brought in a year ago, or even if the reserve price scheme that was proposed a few years ago had been brought in. 
This plan incorporates many features additional to what was originally suggested. The fact that a wool marketing corporation has been brought into existence enabled a price averaging plan to operate, enabled the elimination of the star lots - the small expensive lots to handle - thereby greatly reducing some of the costs. The fact that a corporation has been in existence for a period has enabled a mechanism to be established to build on to it quickly to enable a reserve price scheme to operate. We have managed to incorporate in the functions and the powers of the Commission the right to assist in the development of technical improvements for the appraisal and handling of wool and the introduction of such things as sale by sample which leads to very obvious cost savings. It has enabled us to give consideration to the Commission's having power over the rosters and the offerings of wool and withdrawing faulty types of wool thus preventing them going on to the market. These proposals were never thought of or canvassed a year ago. The plan has given the Commission power to purchase wool, have it processed and resell it as a semiprocessed product. It has given the Commission power over the whole Australian clip and power over the private buyers if it is found that their activities are detrimental to the general interests of wool marketing. These are additional functions which the effluxion of time has made it possible to bring into a Commission. 
I am grateful that there were people in the industry at the beginning of this year who spearheaded an attack on this problem. During the course of the last 2 decades every time an effort has been made to introduce a wool marketing scheme there have been 2 distinct groups which have been poles apart, one group believing that there should be complete acquisition of the clip and a fixed reserve price - a guaranteed price - and, at the other end of the spectrum, the other group which believed in a laissez-faire policy with no interference by the Government. Those 2 groups have never been able to merge but during the course of this year, due to the fact that people from both groups have been prepared to sit down to talk, both learning from mutual discussion, both becoming better educated in the problems of the wool industry, they have reached a compromise which I believe is probably the best method of handling and selling wool. It is a mid-way course which certainly involves government financial assistance and a flexible reserve price which will not cause disastrous stockpiling of wool and disastrous financial involvement by government as has been experienced in South Africa and New Zealand. We are plagued with the likelihood of this kind of disaster hitting our wool marketing scheme because we benefit from their experience. 
Meetings were held such as those mentioned by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  He chaired a big meeting at Moree. He mentioned Ron Hunter to whom I too would like to refer. Ron Hunter did a tremendous amount of work in organising big meetings throughout the country and in helping to educate the producer as to the need for a single statutory wool marketing authority that is what this Bill provides. Education was probably needed more in New South Wales than in any other State because it had previously rejected wool marketing schemes. I think there might have been reason for the previous schemes being rejected because they were based on a fixed reserve price and, as experience has shown, there are weaknesses in such a proposal. 
I pay tribute also to a man who has been criticised tonight by some people. I refer to the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board,  Sir William  Gunn. He is a tremendous influence and force in the Australian wool industry. There are few men who are more misunderstood and more unfairly criticised than is  Sir William  Gunn. He has done a tremendous amount of work for the wool industry in establishing the International Wool Secretariat and in developing programmes for promotion and research. At the beginning of this year he, on his own initiative, formed the advisory committee of the Australian Wool Board which represented all sections of the Australian wool industry which got together and put up the basic elements of a single wool marketing authority. Yet there are people who find it fashionable to bandy his name around in a most unsavoury way. I would like to say also that the trip of the members of the international Wool Textile Organisation was not without its rewards. I believe that the industry in Australia learnt something about the problems that these people are facing from their competitors, the synthetic manufacturers. I believe, also, that they have learnt a great deal from industry leaders in Australia about the need to organise and co-ordinate the method of selling wool in Australia. 1 mentioned in my second reading speech the enormous and fantastic job done by  Sir John  Crawford in preparing a report on a single wool marketing authority. The Government Members Committee, which consists of members of both the Australian Country Party and the Liberal Party, was constantly in touch with me, making suggestions and recommendations. Some of these suggestions have been incorporated in the functions and powers of the Commission. The speed at which the industry organisations accepted the proposal and supported it completely - except for 3 members who wanted further time to consider it - shows the sort of overwhelming support that the industry is giving to this proposal. There are no reservations, as some honourable members opposite have tried to make out. 
Lastly, 1 would like to thank the Australian Agricultural Council, which met on a few days notice and gave unanimous support to the proposal. I hope that, when complementary legislation by the States is necessary, it will be implemented as speedily as possible. It is not necessary at the moment to bring in a flexible reserve price. All that is needed is the co-operation of the brokers who have agreed in setting the standards or types of wool being sold in the auction room. This sort of co-operation is operating now with the price averaging plan. I would certainly like the work of my own Department and that of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to be recorded. The people concerned have worked long hours, strenuously, and with a great deal of dedication trying to get the job done. 
One or two speakers tonight criticised the Australian Wool Board and the International Wool Secretariat for not having a policy of promoting blends of wool. They do promote blends of some types of wool. Carpet wools that contain up to 20 per cent synthetic fibre are promoted by the International Wool Secretariat in the United Kingdom. The IWS will be presenting a full report, at its next meeting to be held in South Africa on 9th November, on reconsideration of its policy on blends in relation to apparel fibres. But there are many difficulties involved. One should be obvious. Why should the wool industry bodies promote blends when the synthetic manufacturers, or the producers of man made fibres, are not also making a contribution? Should they not make a contribution? This is one of the difficulties that has to be overcome. It is being examined and considered. I believe it is necessary that this suggestion be taken into consideration and fostered for the future. 1 am sorry to take up the time of the House, but I did want to make these few comments. I would like to answer very quickly some of the questions that the honourable member for Dawson asked me. Commision is paid on wool that comes into the auction room. This is normal. If wool is bought up by the Commission and re-offered, a small commission will be payable. That system operates now with the price averaging plan, but the commission is generally negotiated with the brokers and the fee is a concessional one. It is not the normal fee charged by brokers. The honourable member asked about consultation with the Board on the appointment of the  Chairman.  I am afraid that I cannot go any further than to say that consultation means what it means - consultation. There will be discussion with the Board on appointments. There is provision in the Bill to ask for information from private operators about their buying and selling practices. The clause in the Bill does not make the supplying of this information compulsory, but it could be made compulsory and enforced by regulation. The Bill contains provision for the making of regulations. That is the means by which information could be obtained if there were any difficulty in obtaining it as the present clause stands. 
The honourable member for Dawson talked about the operation of the reserve price scheme. He thought that it should be spelt out in greater detail. The reserve price scheme will operate exactly as it has been operating in the last 2 months. He talked about writing into the Bill the percentage of advance to be made to growers on wool which is pooled voluntarily or on wool that is bought up by negotiation. The present principle, on which the price averaging plan has been operating, has been a 60 per cent advance. I would imagine that this would be about the figure that the Commission would pay. It is a matter for commercial judgment on the part of the Commission. I do not believe that these* matters should be written too firmly into the legislation because they would limit the freedom and the flexibility of the Commission. The honourable member said that the reserve price might need to be varied within a day. It is intended that the flexible reserve price can be varied at any time. It can be varied every 5 minutes or every half an hour. 
I wish to make a couple of brief comments. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  was right when he said that the Bill did not contain any provision for consultation with the Australian Wool Board on the appointment of the  chairman  of the Australian Wool Commission. I would think that such a provision should be included. The honourable member for Dawson was alert in picking up that point. However, I covered this point in my second reading speech. I think this is adequate for the time being. 
The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  asked whether a part time  chairman  of the Australian Wool Commission would be appointed if the best man available would accept the position only on a part time basis. Naturally consideration would have to be given to this aspect. However, I think it is important to have provision for a full time  chairman.  The 
Australian Wheat Board, the Australian Meat Board and the Australian Dairy Produce Board all have full time chairmen. Representations have been made for a full time chairman to be appointed to the Australian Wool Board. All I am saying is that the options are not closed. I certainly want to place emphasis upon getting the right man for the job. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  asked whether it would be possible to appoint 2 extra grower representatives. This matter has been considered. The industry itself considered it. There was practically an even vote as to whether there ought to be an additional 2 representatives. The vote was 24 to 25. One fellow was late for the vote, which would have made it 25 to 25. There is a difference of opinion within the industry. The Government looked at this aspect and felt that for concise, precise and rapid handling of the wool situation a smaller body would be more effective. Therefore, it decided to keep the membership of grower representatives to 2. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 11.  (1.) A member, other than the  Chairman  or the member representing the Commonwealth, may, with the approval of the Commission, appoint a person, other than a member, to be bis  deputy,  and may revoke any such appointment. 
I do not think this amendment is necessary. 1 am sorry I cannot accept it. The provision in this Bill is the same as that which applies to other statutory bodies. Clause 14 of the Bill reads: 
The Minister may remove a member from office by reason of misbehaviour or physical or mental incapacity. 
The Bill provides for control over a member and this provision would automatically give to the Minister control over the deputy. I do not think there is any need for an amendment to clause 1 1 . 
In relation to the first amendment that has been suggested to clause 16  -  this seeks the insertion of the words 'or his deputy' after the word 'member' - all I would like to say is that this is covered in sub-clause (5.) of clause 16, which states: 
The preceding provisions of this section (other than paragraph (c) of sob-section (1.)) apply to and in relation to a deputy of a member in like manner as they apply to and in relation to a member. 
So the point is really covered by that clause. 
The second amendment that has been moved to clause 16 seeks the deletion of certain words. The purpose of this amendment is really to exclude a broker from being one of the part-time members of the 
Board.  I do not know whether that is desirable. What is necessary is to pick the men of highest qualification and experience to be on the Board. If it were necessary and felt wise to put a broker on the Board, 1 think it would be wise to have that flexibility. But if those words are eliminated or if the proposed new sub-clause is inserted, that flexibility would not be available. So, I am afraid that I have to reject the amendments that have been proposed. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 17 and 18  -  by leave - taken together. 
The first question asked by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  was in relation to wool that is purchased prior to the auction, after negotiation with the owner of the wool. This wool will be sold at the existing reserve price. I spelt this out in greater detail in my second reading speech. I would have interpreted this to mean thai he would be paid in the same way as for wool taken out when it does not meet the reserve price. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  asked me whether all the functions and powers of the Commission are to be voluntary. Except for the setting of standards of preparation for wool, which will require complementary State legislation, they all become powers byCommonwealth legislation. Under our trade and commerce powers these come into existence straight away. The operations of the price averaging scheme and the advance price become compulsory, not complementary. The standards of clip preparation is the only matter that requires complementary State legislation, but we can operate at the moment because the brokers have agreed on standards. 
Another question asked of me was whether the owner of the wool could have the right to withdraw his wool. I might not have it clearly, but once a star lot is taken up he has no say in the price at which it is sold, because it is all included in the price averaging plan. He loses possession of it immediately. It is acquired and he is paid an advance. The returns are pooled when the wool is sold and they are distributed to the owners according to the type and quality of the wool. The question asked by the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  related to sub-clause (3.) of clause 18, which reads: 
The Commission may exercise any of its functions outside Australia. 
This is included specifically to cover a reserve price scheme for wool sold at auction in the United Kingdom. About 10,000 bales a year are sold on that market. It is intended to operate a reserve price for Australian wool sold there. This has always been accepted in all the reserve price scheme proposals put up. It would be quite unfair to the brokers concerned and the people who sell on the English market if we were to make the scheme apply exclusively to the Australian market. 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said that it was not necessary to have in clause 19 (1.) (a) the wording from day to day*. I agree that it is not necessary to have that wording, but I do not think that by retaining the words we cause any inconsistency. The words are inserted in the provision to make it quite clear that it is intended to be a flexible price which can vary from day to day. The clause goes on to state that the price may vary 'as frequently as the Commission thinks necessary', which would allow it to be changed within a day, or at intervals of less than a day to day basis. The purpose of the words is to make the interpretation a little clearer. The next point raised referred to the Commission buying wool at the appropriate reserve price and making arrangements so that the grower whose wool is bought in is paid for that wool within 14 days. It is not necessary to write this into the Bill because it is part of the terms and conditions of a normal auction, and it will be necessary to conform with the terms and conditions of a normal auction. At present the prompt price operating in an auction is for payment within 16 days. If that should change the Commission would have to perform in the same way as any other buyer in the auction room. At the moment it would have to pay within 16 days. 1 believe that the honourable member raised one other point. Me asked whether the price would remain secret, lt is generally intended that this price will not be made public; but it will be very hard to keep it secret all the time. It will be difficult to keep it secret if the Commission goes in and acts as a bidder. Whether the Commission operates a reserve price will be at its discretion. If the wool being offered does not meet a reserve price it is automatically taken in by the Commission. There could be occasions when the Commisison decided to go in as a bidder, but once it bids it reveals what the reserve price is because it will bid at the reserve price. 
I could not clearly say just how it would work. As I mentioned earlier, there are two ways of doing it - either by allowing the auctioneer to know what the reserve price is and if it is not reached the wool is automatically passed into the Commission, or the Commission can put a bidder in to bid. There is this flexibility to take up the wool either way. I doubt whether the Commission's practice will be consistent; 1 think it will vary from time to time. It is not intended that the reserve price be known all the time. It will not be publicly announced but I think it would be fairly easy to pick it up within a day if the wool was not sold and was taken up by the Commission. On some days no wool would be taken up and nobody would know what the reserve price was on that day. 
I do not really think that the amendment to Clause 19 (1.) (C.) of the Bill is necessary. Of course the Commission will try to sell the wool at the best possible price. As a safeguard against not selling it at the best possible price there is clause 19 sub-clause (2.) which states: 
The Commission shall, at fortnightly intervals, make reports to the Minister and the Treasurer concerning the operation of its reserve price scheme . . . 
Then there is paragraph (c) which refers to:  sales of wool by the Commission and proposed offerings of wool by the Commission. 
So reports have to be made to the Minister and, naturally, if the best possible price is not being obtained the Government would need to intervene. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 20 and 21  -  by leave - taken together. 
Under section 21(b) of the Bill the Commission has power to 'buy wool at auction or otherwise'. That word 'otherwise' is there to enable the Commission to negotiate with the owners of the wool before it actually goes on to the auction floor. As I stated in my second reading speech, the intention is to try to control the offerings of wool particularly faulty types of wool, by interrupting them before they enter the auction room. To do this the Commission would need to purchase them outside. The word otherwise' is related to that wool which would be voluntarily purchased. 
Representations may have been made to me in writing in recent days regarding a threat of imports of grapefruit and other citrus fruit. However, I am not aware of such representations. Certainly, personal representations have not been made to me. If there is a threat to the citrus industry I suggest that representatives of that industry make a case to the Government, either through me or the Minister for Trade and Industry. If that case can be substantiated it could be put to the Special Advisory Authority of the Tariff Board for some emergency action to take place. The matter would then go before a full Tariff Board hearing to see what protection was required. This has been the normal procedure with rural industries if there is a threat pending. I suggest that the honourable member give this information to the organisation with which be is associated. 
 I would like to join with the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  who spoke on behalf of the Opposition and associate myself with their remarks. Speaking on behalf of the Australian Country Party I would like to place on record in Hansard our appreciation of the magnificent job of leadership that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  has done for our Party over the past 12 years and of his tremendous record of parliamentary service to the nation. We, as a Party, are greatly indebted to him and thank him very dearly. John McEwen, the honourable member for Murray - that electorate name has not been heard very much in this House because the right honourable member has mostly been referred to as the occupant of one or other office - has had a remarkable period in Parliament. He has held almost every portfolio. He holds the record for the greatest period as a Minister in this Parliament. I believe he will be regarded by historians as the greatest statesman this country has seen since Federation, indeed if not one of our greatest ever. 
John McEwen is the third Leader of the Australian Country Party. The first was  Sir Earle  Page, then came  Sir Arthur  Fadden. Now, for 12 years, it has been the right honourable John McEwen, Leader of the Australian Country Party and presently Minister for Trade and Industry. During his 12 years as Leader of the Party he has strengthened and developed the Country Party to the highest water mark we have seen. Today it is stronger in the 2 Houses of Parliament than we have ever known it to be. Probably even more importantly than that, John McEwen has broadened the image of our Party. He has shown to the Australian people that it is more than a Party just looking after the interests of rural people. It is a Party that has an interest in all the activities of the nation. It is a truly national Party. John McEwen has made a name for himself in this Parliament and in Australia. Those of us who have travelled overseas and have attended meetings of the great international councils know also that his name is known world wide. He has built a reputation for himself as an international negotiator and a man who has tried to organise the world in the better distribution of food products. I believe that this is something for which the world will remember him. 

 His contributions to the International Sugar Agreement, the International Wheat Agreement and, of late, to the International Grains Arrangement which for the first time included the Food Aid Convention, are giving benefit to people all over the world. John McEwen is known as a strong, influential man. Only those who have sat in the Cabinet room with him know of his tremendous capacity to influence other men in what I believe is the right decision. I have sat there with him during the terms of 3 Prime Ministers. I have always admired the way in which he could present a different point of view and generally win the support of Cabinet. Looking back over a period of Cabinet discussions, as a member of the Government I am grateful that John McEwen has been there to guide us in making the right decisions. In his period of office all of us have learned a great deal about how to manage the country. 
He himself can look back on a monumental record of legislation with which he personally has been involved or in which he has had a tremendous influence in bringing down. John McEwen entered this Parliament prior to the last world war and was a member of Cabinets which had to mobilise the forces and reserves of this country to prepare it for war. He was associated with the Advisory War Council. He played a tremendous part in postwar reconstruction in the first Menzies-Fadden Government and I believe that much of the growth and the prosperity that this country enjoys today has occurred because of the advice guidance and leadership that was given by John McEwen. As a personal man he had a great capacity to win friends. I know of few leaders of any country who are always as courteous and as friendly as he is. He imbued in his staff and in the members of his Party a sense of dedication and loyalty and I want to say that we will miss him very much. There will be other occasions for speaking but I must say now that he has always been an example and an inspiration to us all. The training that we have received under his leadership will fit us all well for the future. He goes down to the Murray Valley to farm. I want to assure him that we will continue to get all the support and benefits we can for farmers knowing that he may be one of the recipients of them. But,  Mr McEwen  on behalf of my Party we are eternally grateful for what you have done. You will always be welcome back here as a friend and we hope we will see you from time to time. Good luck, God bless you, you are a great Australian. 
I desire to inform the House that the Parliamentary Party of the Australian Country Party has elected me as its Leader and has elected as  Deputy  Leader my colleague,  Mr Sinclair. 
The answer  to  the  honourable  member's question is as  follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
I should like to associate the Australian Country Party with this condolence motion .and the remarks of the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition. Field-Marshal Viscount Slim was one of the .great men of our time and, if I might personally say, I think he was the. .greatest nian with whom I have had .the pleasure of being associated. He was a self-made, man, a completely competent man, who reached the zenith of accomplishment in his profession. He was. a; /valiant soldier, a first-class author, an excellent orator and an outstanding leader. Australians were proud to have him as their Governor-General. I express appreciation of his dedicated service in that position. He was a man whose presence was always felt. He was a stately man who held himself erect with shoulders , back.  His  great chin expressed the determination that made him a famous man, I will always recall one occasion when he attended a parliamentary function. He was walking up the front steps of Parliament House and photographers were trying to get a photograph of him. One photographer said: Your  Excellency,  would you mind smiling?' and he said: 'What do. you think I am doing?' On this official occasion we give a final salute to honour him and say: 'Long live bis memory and his example'. To his widow and family I express the sympathy of my Country Party colleagues. 
Question resolved in the. affirmative, honourable members standing, in their places. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to associate my colleagues with the remarks of the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition  in relation to James Patrick Ormonde, better known to all of us and to all his friends as Mim'. Jim Ormonde came into this Parliament at approximately the same time as J did. Right from the beginning, a close and friendly relationship existed between us. Jim was that sort of man. Whilst he was a dedicated Labor man and an excellent Parliamentarian, he also had the capacity of making great friends with people no matter what their political beliefs might be. Jim always had a friendly smile on his face. J had associations with him in my electorate. He used to refer to me as 'Young Doug' and to me he was 'Jim'. But I do wish to say to his widow and to his family that we extend to them our heartfelt sympathy in their bereavement and wish them well in the future. 
.1 would like to associate the Australian Country Party with the condolence remarks made about the late  Mrs Blackburn.  She was an unusual and rather remarkable woman. She followed her husband into this Parliament and was one of the few women to have graced this chamber. She made a very notable contribution especially to social welfare and to the advancement of Australian Aboriginals. I would like to tender the sympathy of my colleagues to her family. 
 I'  anl 'intrigued by the new interest of the honourable member for Riverina in trade affairs. It must be the result of his recent' trip overseas. The United Kingdom-Australia Trade Agreement has been renewed on a  6-monthly  basis each year since 1957. In the light of the circumstances that are arising, the whole situation will have to be reviewed. But for the moment the Agreement will continue to operate under the existing arrangements. 
I am sorry that 1 cannot inform the honourable member when that question might be answered. All 1 can say if that the strength of the Tariff Board in respect of staffing arrangements and facilities has been increased progressively over the last two or three years. At the moment there is a request before the Government to strengthen further its . operations. As soon as I am in a position to ascertain this information I will see that the honourable member's question is answered. 
In, my previous office as Minister for Primary Industry I had started negotiations between the Department of .Primary Industry and the Department of the Treasury on formulating a scheme for the operation of a farm loan insurance corporation. The idea of this scheme is similar to that of the scheme which is operated by the Housing Loan Insurance Corporation, whereby the lenders of money are guaranteed against default of payment. It is well recognised that one of the most urgent and critical needs of primary industry today is to obtain money on longer terms. If money is borrowed on short terms it is impossible for primary producers to repay the loan at the required rate. We will be pushing ahead as quickly as possible to try to formulate an appropriate scheme. However, many institutions and creditors will need' to be covered by it. Whilst the banks, which' are the traditional source of credit for rural industries, supply a substantial amount of money, the survey of indebtedness carried out by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics shows that a very high proportion of money has come from insurance institutions and from solicitors' private trust funds. All these various forms of credit will have to be taken into consideration if farmers are to get the benefit of the proposed scheme. 
The answer provided by my predecessor  (Sir John McEwen)  to the honourable member's question is as follows: (I.) In 1969-70, 13,337 assembled passenger motor cars valued at $21,499,000 were exported from Australia, wilh an average- unit value of $1,612 F.O.B. (These figures refer to Australian produce as defined by the Commonwealth Statistician.) (2), (3) and (4) lt is not possible from official statistics and published industry information to answer these questions. 
The answer provided by my predecessor  (Sir John McEwen)  to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
These are to be found primarily in Chapter 87 of the Customs Tariff. In general terms, the rates are - 
on imported fully assembled passenger cars  45 per cent (General) 35 per cent (Preferential) and 374 per cent (Canada). 
on most components  -  35 per cent (General) and 27i per cent (Preferential). 
Some components (e.g. motor vehicle glass) are classifiable to other chapters of the Tariff. 
(a) and (b): Companies and factory locations - 
Manufacturers  of Motor  Vehicles - 
British Leyland Motor Corp. of Aust. Pty Ltd - Waterloo (New South Wales) 
Chrysler Australia Ltd - Adelaide (South Australia) and Port Melbourne (Victoria) 
Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd - Geelong and Broadmeadows (Victoria), Homebush and Auburn (New South Wales), Eagle Farm (Queensland) 
General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd - Port Melbourne and Dandenong (Victoria), Woodville and Elizabeth (South Australia), Pagewood (New South Wales), Acacia Ridge (Queensland), Mosman Park (Western Australia) 
International Harvester Co. of Aust. Pty Ltd - Geelong and Dandenong (Victoria). 

 Major Assemblers f  Motor  Vehicles- 
Australian Motor Industries Ltd - Port Melbourne (Victoria) 
Motor Producers Ltd - Dandenong (Victoria) 
Renault (Aust.) Ply Ltd - West Heidelberg (Victoria) 
Pressed Metal Corp. Ltd - Enfield (New South Wales). In addition there are a number of companies which assemble commercial vehicles of various types and sizes. 
Component manufacturers - 
The Commonwealth Statistician recorded 382 factories as manufacturing motor vehicle components in Australia in 1967-68. Some companies manufacturing components own more than one factory. lt is not possible to list all the companies involved in component manufacture. However, details relating to most of these companies can be found in the Australian Automotive Products Export Directory, issued by the Federation of Automotive Products Manufacturers, Industry House, Canberra. Australian Capital Territory. I have forwarded a copy of this Directory to the honourable member. 
(c) Statistics are not available for the work force at each factory. 
(d) Although the bulk of this information is provided to the Government, it is done on  a  confidential basis and I am unable to make the  information available. 
(e), (4) and (5) lt is not the Government's practice to release information which deals with the financial circumstances of individual companies. Total exports of road motor vehicles and components and accessories over the past 5 years have been as follows - 
The answer provided by my predecessor  (Sir John McEwen)  to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that there are 29 firms making carpet in Australia. 
Australian carpet manufacturers mostly use wool from New Zealand, Britain, India and Pakistan.  At  times  a  percentage of specially selected Australian wool is blended with the traditional wools. The high-quality Australian woo) which has achieved great fame throughout the world for making apparel is  not  suitable  for  carpel manufacture because of its tendency to felt. 
The carpet used  on  the floor of the exhibition and dispersal halls was made in Australia and covered an approximate area of 750 square yards, lt was an Axminster type carpel wilh a pile composed of  wool  from New Zealand, Britain, India, Pakistan and Australia. 
The answer provided by my predecessor  (Sir John McEwen)  to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Exports of iron and steel and zinc to Mainland China in the last 5 financial years were as fol lows. As the statistical classifications were changed after  1965-66,  this year has been shown separately. 
The answer provided by my predecessor  (Sir John McEwen)  to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Yes. The  Chairman  referred to the Tariff Board's support for the Monash project in an address he gave to the Royal Institute of Public Administration in Canberra on 23rd April 1970. 
No. Supporting the Monash project means supplying estimates of the average rales of protection afforded Australian manufacturing industries and assisting in the up-dating of input-output data compiled for 1962-63. Estimates of the average rates of protection for industries are based on the Customs Tariff and data available from the Statistician; and the up-dating of input-output data also is based on information compiled by the Statistician. 
Yes. The Tariff Board has always taken great care, and will continue to do so in the future, to ensure that confidential information it receives does not pass to outside bodies. It will continue the practice of aggregating confidential data from individual firms into a non-confidential form, before publication or release. 
The answer provided by my predecessor  (Sir John McEwen)  to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
With respect to questions (1) and (2), in 1969- 70 container vessels were periodically being phased into both the Australia lo United KingdomEurope and the Australia to Japan trades. They are nol yet operative in any other overseas trade. Information is not yet available as to the precise quantities of cargoes carried by container vessels in that year. However, operators anticipate that as their container services become more established a larger percentage of cargoes within the trades concerned will be carried in container ships. 
As to questions (3) and (4) the Government, of course, maintains a detailed scrutiny of its own container and vehicle deck ship operations. Consequently, in broad terms it is informed on operational costs and the benefits connected with these new type services. 
I made a statement in the House on 19th October in which I. expressed my belief that the expected benefits and economies of container shipping would in fact be realised. 
I believe the Government's views are adequately set out in that statement. 
I do not know whether 1 could give a positive answer to the question whether I feel there are enough trade commissioners in that area. I know there are a good many trade commissioners over there. We do sponsor and support trade missions to various parts of the world, including Europe, to foster the export of Australian goods. I am conscious of the letter which the honourable member wrote to me in relation to the possibilities of exporting fat lamb to France and I have brought this request to the attention of the  Chairman  of the Australian Meat Board and asked him to look at it. But there are trading difficulties with the European countries. We are trying to minimise these in the course of negotiations but they are awkward ones to overcome. 
 The answer provided by my predecessor  (Sir John McEwen)  to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Trade and Industry is represented at 46 overseas posts by some 169 departmental officers and trade commissioners. 
Only one of these is not an Australian citizen He is a relatively recent appointee as Trade Commissioner, Bangkok, who is a British citizen, born in India. He has a requisite qualifications for Australian citizenship and has been asked to complete the necessary formalities for this. 
In addition, trade commissioners employ some 480 locally engaged staff at overseas posts, who, for the most part, are not Australian citizens but local nationals. 
The answer provided by my predecessor  (Sir John McEwen)  to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The temporary ban imposed on imports of Australian mutton by United States' authorities has created certain difficulties for the Australian mutton industry. However, it must be understood that the United States of America is only insisting on standards that it applies to its own domestic killing works and if we want access to this market Australian mutton export establishments must comply with the requirements set down by the United States. 
I could give only a personal opinion on the quality of American films and I do not think it appropriate that I should do so. Regulation 4a of the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations and the Customs (Cinematograph Films) Regulations contain provisions to prohibit the importation of literature and films of an obscene and pornographic nature. 
Under the administration of my colleague the Minister for Customs and Excise these regulations provide the legal means to prevent a dangerous inflow of the type of obscene and pornographic materia] to which the honourable member refers. 
My answers to parts (1) and (2) of this question do not support the honourable member's contention that an untenable trading situation exists. 
The United States of America is now Australia's second most important export market, taking over $500m worth of Australian goods in 1969-70, and was the main source of our imports in that year, when imports from the United States of America were worth almost 31,000m. Both countries are members of the GATT and we do not necessarily aim to balance our trade bilaterally. The United States of America is the main supplier of many of the items we need for our development; examples of these are chemicals and excavating, levelling and boring machinery. Total Australian exports to the United States of America have been increasing over the last 3 years by about 12 per cent a year. 
Our trading position in the United States of America is constantly under review and supported as necessary by top-level trade representations in Washington and an active trade promotion programme. 
As the honourable member said for many years there has been a duty of 25c per lb on all Australian wools finer than 44s entering the United States. This has caused a great deal of annoyance to Australians because today the 25c is such a high percentage of the value of the wool and I would say that it is causing a great deal of resentment. However it still applies in that form. Over the years successive Liberal-Country Party governments have approached the United States Government to try to bring about some reduction in this duty. In 1961 negotiations were held with the Americans and they asked that the matter be deferred and be incorporated in the Kennedy Round discussions. During the course of the Kennedy Round discussions the Americans agreed to reduce the duty by 50 per cent provided Australia made concessions on tobacco leaf coming into this country. During the course of the Kennedy Round discussions the Americans wanted not only concessions on tobacco leaf but also an extension of concessions to other industries. However, before the final wind-up of the Kennedy Round discussions the Americans, for their own reasons, withdrew the offer completely. In 1967 the then Prime Minister conferred with the  President  of the United States of America to see whether a reduction might be brought about. The outcome was that the Americans were completely intractable on this issue. AllI would like to say to the honourable member is that this is an issue which is causing a great deal of annoyance and resentment, and that the Government will continue its efforts to try to bring about a reduction in the duty. 
There has been a lot of talk to the effect that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has insulted the House by not making a longer statement than he did. But the fact is that the Prime Minister did exactly what he said he would do. He said he would make a statement setting out the Government's proposals for reductions in Government spending. That is what he said he would do, and that is what he did. I think that there is need for a much more responsible approach to the problem of inflation than a petty attack on the Prime Minister for not doing what some people thought he was going to do. The basis of this responsible approach was laid 2 weeks ago by the Prime Minister in the lucid statement he made to the nation on the problem of inflation and his outline of the measures which the Government would take. Now he has followed this up with a statement in the House on the proposals for reductions in Government expenditure during the next 4 months. 
After a long and deafening silence the Opposition has come out with what is supposed to be a stinging attack. This was the long awaited and deeply considered Opposition comment on a very serious subject - one of the most serious facing our economy. All I can say, after listening to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  this afternoon, is that it was just a lot of intellectual rhetoric on old Australian Labor Party philosophies. I believe that the Australian people have been stunned by the complete lack of interest by the Labor Party in this subject of inflation over recent months. In my view this problem of inflation is serious and important. The ALP may be concerned about it. I do not take that away from it, but I believe that when the Labor Party supports reckless spending policies, shorter working hours and disruptive moves by trade unions there is a lack of integrity and sincerity to act in a manner to avoid further increases in inflation. 
Our economy basically is sound, but dangerous tendencies are developing. The whole Australian community must be made aware of this. For the past 20 years this country has had one of the soundest growth rates in the world. Its economic performance and its economic stability, with associated high living standards and full employment, have made it the envy of other nations. We have achieved this only by applying restraints when undesirable inflationary tendencies have occurred. The present inflationary tendencies must be accepted as warning signs requiring counter action if we are to maintain our coveted economic strength and stability. Today our overseas reserves are in a healthy position. Our reputation, and the confidence of overseas investors in us, is good. But if the present inflationary trends should continue and worsen, they would bring this country to its knees. Sections of the economy can no longer stand further increases in costs and must be forced out of business if these trends continue. 
We have a good economy, and the Government is determined to protect it. If firm action is needed the Government will take it. The inflationary spiral is a true vicious circle. Excessive demand leads to pressure on resources. This causes the price of labour and materials to be bid up. This brings increased costs and thus increased prices. Higher wages lead to more demand for goods. Further wage demands follow and so the cycle goes on. This is truly a vicious circle with no-one really benefiting and many suffering. We need only to look at the tragedy of the fruitless inflationary spiral in other countries, especially the -United States of America and Britain to see how insidious inflation is. In the United States in 1970 the gross national product in real terms declined. This is a staggering concept - a country like the United States producing less as the year went by. 
It is a world-wide phenomenon that a high rate of economic growth usually is accompanied by some degree of inflation. It is hard to avoid a degree of inflation when growth and full employment are basic aims. In Australia the rate of cost increases has been moderate when compared with the rate of cost increases in most other developed countries. But inflationary pressures have increased recently and the situation, while not one that should cause panic, is certainly one that must be viewed very seriously. Not only are prices rising rapidly, but so are wages. The average weekly earnings by adult males rose by 9 per cent in the 12 months to the September quarter of 1970, and this does not take account of wage rises since then - in particular, the 6 per cent increase awarded by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in December. 
The effect of these increases is particularly severe on people on fixed incomes and on those - such as the people in the farming sector - who cannot protect themselves against rising costs. The farmer has no control over the prices he receives for the great bulk of his output. Inflation accentuates his problem and causes severe damage to his ability to export competitively. The impact of inflation and static or falling returns is clear from the fact that over the last 6 years the index of prices received by farmers has fallen by 7.3 per cent while the index of prices paid by farmers has risen by 19.8 per cent. This is an intolerable burden for many farmers, and the current rate of inflation is aggravating the problem and placing many more farmers in an impossible position. Country communities are suffering from the dual effects of low returns and increasing costs. Net rural income is declining. Businessmen, storekeepers and local government authorities are unable to pass on any more of these increased costs to their communities. This is affecting development and employment and is aggravating the already disturbing drift of population out of rural areas. 
The impact of inflation upon exports of the mining and manufacturing industries may not be so severe because world prices for these goods, on the whole, are increasing and this gives scope for price increases. But inflation also affects the cost and therefore the growth of Government services. The costs of providing education, health services and public utilities are increased. Government action to cut back on these services inevitably disappoints the community and inhibits the opportunity of everyone in the community to enjoy the benefits of economic growth. The Government is not prepared to ignore the signs of pressure building up in our economy. In April and August last year we acted to contain consumption demand through monetary restraint, but now pressures are emerging in other key areas. Restraint in these areas is essential. Restraint is essential because part of the inflation cycle is a kind of fear about eroding values. People become afraid that inflation will hurt them. In trying to keep ahead of inflation they demand excessive wage and price increases, and this only stokes the fires of inflation. As well, a fear of inflation leads to misallocation of resources, as investment is diverted from productive and developmental works into pure speculation in fixed assets such as land and buildings, purely for hedging against further inflation. 
The Australian people have shown their willingness and their ability to raise production and to develop this nation. They have a real and legitimate desire to share in the fruits of their efforts. What a tragedy it would be if their own lack of perception of the nature of the inflation problem should jeopardise their prosperity. There is a real danger that this could happen. It is true that inflation does not affect everyone in the community to the same degree. It is much more damaging to those on fixed incomes and those who export. The unfortunate thing is that inflation leads to action which affects everyone in the community as governments try to restrain inflation. 
I am not attacking the responsible unionist or businessman but it must be understood by the whole community that it is not the number of dollars in the pay packet that counts but what each of those dollars will buy. Increases in the pay packet are a cruel illusion when the buying power of each of those dollars is eroded by inflation. There is a real need for wage and salary demands to be geared to real increases in productivity. The Government has taken a lead by measures to reduce the demand pressures in the economy. It has brought in monetary and fiscal measures to achieve acceptable levels of consumption. It is cutting Government spending to reduce the pressure of demand for goods and services. It has suspended investment allowances for manufacturers to help ease excessive pressures on construction and the demand for skilled labour. 
Complementary action is needed, and this action must be taken by the Australian people as a community. Responsible restraint by unions and industry is needed. The Government has not intervened directly in this area, but it must certainly find itself coming into conflict with any irresponsible action by unions or industry groups to increase wages and prices unnecessarily. Excessive wage and salary demands, illegal strikes, defiance of the law or irresponsible use of bargaining power must be met with firm opposition from this Government. 
In the area of prices, a close watch is being kept on the operations of the Trade Practices Act. Various means of strengthening its effectiveness will be considered by the Government. On the question of price control I want to say merely that I believe this method of controlling inflation has been discredited by the experience of those countries which have tried it. Surely it is far better to approach the problem of inflation with an informed and responsible community itself finding solutions rather than bringing in bureaucratic controls. Inflation is the concern of everyone in the community and solving the problem of inflation is the responsibility of all. The fight against the evils of inflation must be fought at every level. We are all involved. There must be a new pattern of behaviour in the Australian community's approach to wages, prices and investment. 
We must bring about a change in the national psychology of inflation if we are to break out of the inflationary complex in which rapid wage and price rises are becoming built into community expectations. This psychology flows like electric current into a motor, causing a faster and faster rate of revolution of the inflationary spiral. An inflationary psychology in the community tends to compel people to offset the effects of inflation by seeking higher and higher wages and prices to protect themselves. In this way, inflation feeds on itself. The Government is determined to give a lead to the community in trying to change this kind of thinking. As a nation we cannot allow this psychology to continue. 
Inflation cannot be condoned: it must be arrested to the greatest degree possible. In 1961 it was stopped, but the community was so jolted in the process that there were unfortunate and undesirable side effects. Inflation is the insidious white ant that can undermine the very foundations of the stable structure of our economy. It can undermine and destroy the standards of living to which Australians are entitled through their bard work. By cautious and prudent action, and by displaying purposefulness and resolution, the Government is determined to come to grips with inflation. Until the need to do this is recognised and accepted by al] Australians there will be many unfortunate victims. 
It is true that  Mr Stanley  Marcus came to Australia to try to do a deal with the Department of Trade and Industry to have an Australian fortnight at its very large departmental store in Texas. The store is not quite a departmental store; it is a specialty store that deals in luxury goods. It has been the custom of 'the store to have a special fortnight for countries or for regions of the world or for events of some international significance. When  Mr Marcus  approached the Department last August, it showed interest in the idea. Acceptance of the offer was dependent upon whether there would be a sufficient buy-in of Australian goods and whether continuing business would be developed. When  Mr Marcus  came to Australia, the indication was that it would cost us $150,000 to participate in this operation. He surveyed the market here for goods and reported that there was only a veneer of Australian goods that would be satisfactory for his store. The amount of buy-in was his choice. It is not a case of Australia not supplying goods or not having them.  Mr Marcus  came to Australia and surveyed what the opportunities were. The facts were examined by the Department of Trade and Industry and it was found that there would be an insufficient purchase of Australian made goods to warrant the operation. A decision was made last August by my predecessor not to continue with the operation. Many requests for Australian participation have been made to the Department and to myself since I took over my present portfolio. I have looked at the facts and I support the decision that was made. 
The International Grains Arrangement concludes on 30th June this year. Negotiations have been taking place in Geneva over the past 5 weeks to try to facilitate a continuation of international orderly marketing of wheat. In these negotiations the International Wheat Trade Convention and the Food Aid Convention have been examined. The meeting will conclude today. I hope to have a detailed report of the meeting over the weekend and I will then be in a position to give this House more information next week. From the information that has come back to me the meeting has not been able to reach a conclusion on pricing and supply commitments. However, despite the fact that the pricing mechanism has not been operating under the International Grains Arrangement for the past 12 months Australia has made near record sales of wheat. These sales amount to slightly over 300 million bushels and the price has been maintained around the levels specified under the earlier conditions of the International Grains Arrangement. 
A decision has been made by the countries attending the Conference that they support the concept of orderly marketing. Also, these countries hope that they can come to some firmer pricing and supply arrangements. Discussions on this matter will take place later this year at a meeting of the International Wheat Council in London. If the discussions take place in this forum there is a good indication that the Soviet Union and other countries will participate in the agreement. These countries would not participate under the old International Grains Arrangement because it was under the auspices of the Kennedy Round talks. I am hopeful that we can maintain a form of orderly marketing. The new Arrangement might be even more successful and beneficial than the old one. 
 Answering first the last part of the question asked by the honourable member for Dawson which related to the second possible wheat sale to the United Arab Republic, the negotiations have broken down not because of any pricing difficulties, but because it appears that the United Arab Republic wants further time to think about them. Up to that stage only exploratory talks had taken place. We already have a contract with the U.A.R. this year for half a million tons, and I hope that these will be an annual commitment. I have already advised the House that I expect to receive further information about the new International Wheat Agreement, which was reached last Friday. The new agreement will contain both a wheat trade convention and a food aid convention. However, the wheat trade convention will not have the pricing commitments that were contained in the International Grains Arrangement which was signed in 1967. As honourable members will know the pricing provisions of the old International Grains Arrangement have not applied for 12 months or so, but we have been able to maintain stability of price even though there has been pressure for a downward trend in price due to the heavy stockpiles of wheat around the world. Under this new international wheat trade commitment a regular watch will be kept on market prices and market trends by means of the International Wheat Council, and every effort will be made to co-operate with and consult wheat exporting and importing countries. Furthermore, we believe that this new arrangement could possibly be even more effective than the old one because there is a likelihood that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and other countries might become members of it. The food aid convention has been accepted under the old terms which were laid down, all donor countries having agreed to participate on the same terms under which they were previously committed. 
Somewhat facetious questions like this do not help the Australian Wheat Board in endeavouring to negotiate with mainland China for the sale of wheat. The Board only finds its task made much more difficult and is greatly embarrassed by people who make such public comment. For the past 3 or 4 months we have been waiting to hear from mainland China about a possible sale of wheat in the same way that we have been notified each year. Unfortunately this year no contract has been made yet, but I am still very hopeful and optimistic that we will hear from China before too long. We have an excellent record with China. She has been very satisfied with the type of wheat she has received and with the terms and conditions on which she has bought that wheat. 
I believe that 2 factors have come into play which have allowed China to defer possible discussions about the purchase of wheat this year. The first is that she made a purchase from Canada at the time when the world price for wheat was relatively low. Immediately that purchase was achieved there was an upward movement in the price of wheat largely because of leaf blight in the American maize crop, and the price has gone up by Stg2 or Stg3 a ton. Secondly, there are indications that there has been a relatively good crop of grain in China this year. But I believe that because of the record we have and the satisfaction that China has derived from purchasing large quantities of wheat from Australia it is fairly conclusive that we will be seeing more of her in the future. 
The facts are as the honourable member stated. The arrangement with the Australian and United Kingdom Conference Line was to move 7 million cases of apples over a three-year period, and now with the bumper crop this year there will be 500,000 cases in excess of the amount arranged for. The Conference Line has agreed to charter additional shipping at a cost of an extra $1 a case. The Apple and Pear Board, however, has rejected this offer and is making inquiries to find out what other shipping can be made available. It is not satisfied with the additional price that is being requested by the Conference Line. 
This question is similar to a question which the honourable member asked me previously. The honourable member is seeking information concerning questions that are on the notice paper. When I am in a position to give him that information 1 will do so. 
There has never been a statement saying that there shall be such an all-embracing review of the Tariff Board and its functions as suggested by the honourable member. The Government has stated that there shall be a progressive review of tariffs and that the Minister for Trade and Industry is' charged with carrying out an examination of how this progressive review of tariffs is to be done. At the moment I am having consultations with industry groups. Last week J met with the Conference of Manufacturing Industries Association and with the Manufacturing Industries Advisory Council. This week I will be meeting with the Associated Chambers of Commerce and the Australian Farmers Federation and will be seeking their points of view as to the rules and principles which should be- adopted in carrying out such a review. When I have sought the views and opinions of these bodies I will be preparing a paper to submit to Cabinet and the Government will then make a decision which will be announced in public.  
Honourable members have been listening to the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  who has spoken with much feeling and has expressed suspicion that all is wrong, is corrupt and is sinful in the Government. 1 am probably a little more generous than the honourable member for Fremantle in that I believe that most members come into this House with a sense of dedication and are prepared to give service to their country, lt is a poor show when one becomes so suspicious of everything around him that he will not trust anything. This is really the essence of the speech by the honourable member for Fremantle who has proved nothing conclusively. 
I listened to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  who revealed a few moments of brilliance when he was rattling off appropriate words to describe divisions, lack of loyalty, treachery, subversion within political parties and lack of collective responsibility. For a few moments I thought that he was speaking of his own Party. Certainly he spoke with all the feeling of a man who knows what he is saying, and I can understand him doing so, he being Leader of the Opposition. One of the most pertinent comments made during the events of the last week was made by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  What he said is still pertinent. During last week's events he is reported to have said: 
If the Liberals want to know how to do this sort of thing, they should see us. We have been doing it for years. 
This is the divided Labor Party that comes into the House today to attack the Government. 
We have heard a lot about the new Prime Minister not having a mandate to govern. This is the flimsy pretext for this no confidence motion. This shows the shakiness of the Labor Party's grounds for making this attack. The Leader of the Opposition apparently believes that he can fool the Australian people into thinking that this is a valid reason for an attack on the Government. The only reason the Opposition is going ahead with this motion today is- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! There is no point of order. 
The only reason why the Opposition is going ahead with this motion is that it is so rattled by the way the election of a new Prime Minister has been received by the Press and by the Australian public that it feels that it must try to salvage something for itself. The facts are that the people put into office in 1969 not just a Prime Minister but a government pledged to carry out certain policies. In fact, I believe that there was an election for the Prime Ministership immediately after the general election. Is the Labor Party trying to say now that if a Prime Minister other than  Mr Gorton  had been elected then, a new general election would have been needed to give that new Prime Minister a mandate? 
What a ridiculous claim. This is what the Opposition wants honourable members and the people of Australia to believe. The desperateness of the attempt by the Leader of the Opposition to get some mileage out of this situa tion is clear if we look at the two basic arguments he put forward. The first argument is that because this Government is different in that there is a new Prime Minister, it does not have a mandate from the people. The emptiness of that argument has been shown already.  His  other argument is that this Government is, after all, the same as the one that was here last week. He says that it has the same problems. 
The Government has from time to time chartered trade ships to assist, it in the promotion of the export sales of Australian products. I believe that between 1958 and 1965 five such ships were chartered and used for this purpose. However, there is no intention at the moment of using trade ships, because of the expense involved compared with other means of promoting Australian products. The feeling of the Department of Trade and Industry at the moment is that we can more effectively promote Australian products by specialised campaigns into selected markets. 
I am not aware of this matter at all. 
This question has not been raised with me. I sometimes wonder about the logic of the argument used by people that this tariff is having an adverse effect on the wool industry. These people talk in terms of a high tariff here being of assistance to the manufacturers of man made fibres and enabling them to command a bigger part of the market. But let us look at this question conversely. If we lower the tariff protection on man made fibres we only allow more overseas products to come on to the market and so in turn compete with wool. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 
In its Annual Report for 1966-67 the Board suggested that there would be advantages in conducting an inquiry into sections of Chapter 84 of the Tariff (which covers machinery and mechanical appliances). A summary list of the references under Chapter 84 since sent to the Board by the Minister is as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and ri) In the House on 24th September 19h9 my predecessor as Minister for Trade and Industry said that 'there would be no precedent for the Minister responsible for the Tariff Board writing to the Board and instructing it or seeking to influence it'. 
Where the Government has considered it necessary to inform the Tariff Board of a specific policy objective when referring a particular industry to the Board this has been made clear in the terms of reference sent to the Board. In such cases the Tariff Board has always taken the Government's specific objectives into account.  i') In  ils recent Annual Reports the Tariff 
Board has suggested a progressive review of the tariff and has described the approach it proposed to apply in considering whether an industry is economic and efficient and the level of tariff it would recommend. 
The Government has decided that there should be a progressive review of the tariff and that the principles to be observed by the Tariff Board in that review, and in its normal tariff reviews, should be the subject of further examination by the Government 
The other day when I answered a question on this matter from the Leader of the Opposition 1 was unaware of the facts, lt is true that there had been discussions between the Department of Customs and Excise and the Department of Trade and Industry, and indeed a note had been prepared for mc but I had not seen it at that stage. The matter has been raised in the House by the Minister for Customs and Excise. He gave an answer detailing his responsibilities in the application of by-law and the cancellation of any by-law that might exist. What he said was proper and correct. The matter now has been studied by the Government and it has endorsed the action of the Minister for Customs and Excise. The action is merely the application of the long-standing principle that rales of duly decided by the Tariff Board should apply to protected  Australian produced goods when they are a suitable equivalent for goods produced overseas and when they are reasonably available.. The effect of the cancellation of the by-law on costs of finished commercial vehicles has yet to be seen. 
However I would like to quote what the Tariff Board had to say in 1965. It said:   . . The performance of at least one manufacturer suggests that a significantly higher local content may not mean appreciably higher costs of commercial vehicle production where large volumes of production are concerned. 
The following extract from the same report by the Tariff Board is also worth noting: 
When the problem is examined in more detail at a later date the Board would expect to see that the local contents of commercial vehicles as normally sold by vehicle builders have been raised to higher levels. 
It is very hard to determine at this early stage just what the effects of additional costs will be, but one must say that the action by the Minister for Customs and Excise is consistent with established policy. It was taken after detailed examination by his Department and in consultation with th industry, with both the component manufacturers and the users of those components. It is in conformity with the expressed expectations of the Tariff Board and, as I mentioned previously, has been endorsed by the Government. 
With the application of the wheat quotas there is indeed encouragement to wheat growers to try to diversify and engage in other types of cropping. I did mention at the Agricultural Outlook Conference that there were opportunities for diversification although they were not limitless. Certainly in the oil seed industry there is a chance for further development and expansion but this must be measured against the domestic requirements and the economic attractiveness of producing such crops. However, at the moment there does appear to be sufficient local demand to require further production. I know the area for oil seed production has increased quite dramatically in recent years. It is now up to something like 400,000 acres, but it appears there is still further room for increased production. 
The honourable member's question was long and interesting and had many facets to it. In fact, I think some of them infringed a little on Government policy. The first point that I want to make is that it has been a long-standing principle accepted by this Government that commodities produced remain the property of the people who produce them. For instance, Australian wheat is sold under the jurisdiction and management of the 
Australian Wheat Board, and this has been the body which has initiated and been able to successfully negotiate sales to the People's Republic of China. In the case of wool, I would certainly not give a direction to the Australian Wool Board, or to any other group, to send representatives to China in order to try to sell wool there, but what I would be quite happy to do is to consult my colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry, on the question which the honourable member has raised. It would be of interest for him to know that members of the Australian Wool Commission would have been overseas discussing with some countries with statecontrolled economies the possibility of buying wool from Australia on a negotiated arrangement. I know that discussions have taken place but I am not aware of the outcome of them. I will certainly discuss the question that the honourable member has brought up with my colleague the Minister for Primary Industry. 
I did see in a paper a report of a speech made by the honourable member for Riverina at, I think, the University of Sydney or the University of New South Wales. I doubt whether the departments concerned - the Department of Health or the Department of Customs and Excise - would think that this was a reflection on them because, really, this gentleman makes so many statements on so many things that they just take that statement for granted. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During 1970, 38 additional positions were created in the Office of the Tariff Board. Submissions seeking a further 20 positions were made towards the end of the year and these are under consideration by the Public Service Board. 
, (3), (7), (8) and (.9) On 10th and 12th June 1970, the Public Service Board recommended the creation of a number of additional positions and approved the reclassification of a number of existing positions. In respect of nine of the additional positions, the Minister Assisting the Minister for Trade and Industry in response to a letter from the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board advised him that the conditions under which the Public Service Board recommended creation of these positions raised important policy questions which he would discuss with the Minister for Trade and Industry who had been overseas at that time. These nine additional positions were sought for work in connection with inquiries which would form part of a progressive review of the Tariff. At that time the question of whether there would be a progressive review of the Tariff was under consideration by the Minister. The additional nine positions were approved by the GovernorGeneralinCouncil on 1 1th September 1970. The Government has since decided that there should be a progressive review of the Tariff and that the principles to be applied by the Tariff Board in that review and in normal tariff inquiries would be the subject of further examination by the Government. 
The Tariff Board stated in its Annual Report for 1969-70 that the resources available to it had been fully occupied on normal tariff revision inquiries (including inquiries on some sections of chapter 84 of the Tariff) and dumping and NZAFTA inquiries. The Board also stated in its 1969-70 Annual Report that the Minister had recently informed the Board that he expected  a  significant increase in the number of by-law dumping and NZAFTA matters referred to the Board. 
and (6) Ministerial responsibility for the staffing of the Office of the Tariff Board rests with the Minister for Trade and Industry. 
When the Tariff Board considers that its work load warrants additional staff resources, its requests are submitted to the Public Service Board for examination in the normal way. 
To give the honourable gentleman the comprehensive reply which he might like I would have to ask him to put the question on notice or give him a considered reply later. I presume that the Industry Economics Branch of the Tariff Board, to which he has referred, is a section which has been set up to prepare what is known as staff papers. Already the Board has prepared one such paper. This Branch carries out a survey of an industry and solicits information in advance of a normal Tariff Board inquiry. Only one such staff paper has been prepared and distributed up to date. I cannot say what the Board's intentions are for the future, but I would be happy to provide to the honourable member, after consulting with the Tariff Board, whatever information is available. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to seek the approval of the Parliament for the ratification by Australia of the Fourth International Tin Agreement. The Agreement was negotiated at a conference held in Geneva last year under the auspices of the United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development - UNCTAD - and it is the latest in a series of international tin agreements dating back to 19S6. Subject to the necessary ratification by governments, the Agreement will enter into force on 1st July 1971 for a period of 5 years. Copies of the new Agreement are available for honourable members. It is a complex document and it is my purpose today to concentrate on its more important provisions. 
The primary objectives of the various international tin agreements have been to secure adequate supplies of tin at stable prices equitable to both importers and exporters. The price range within which the Agreement aims to stabilise the market price of tin is currently Stgl,350 to Stgl,650 per metric ton. It is adjusted periodically by agreement between the exporters and importers. These objectives are achieved by recourse to the mechanism of a buffer stock, financed by producing members, and supplementary controls over exports and stocks in producing countries, if required. The basic function of the buffer stock, which consists of the equivalent of 20,000 metric tons of tin metal, is to moderate short term price fluctuations due to temporary changes in market conditions. The supplementary export and stock controls are brought into operation only when the buffer stock is unable to achieve its purpose unaided. However, such controls have been imposed only once in the last 10 years. Governments participate in the Agreement either as producingexporting or consuming-importing members. 
The major tin exporting countries are Malaysia, Bolivia, Thailand, Indonesia. Nigeria and the Democratic Republic of Congo and all are members of the current Agreement. There are 19 consuming members of the current Agreement including Japan, the United Kingdom, France, Italy and Canada. These countries account for about 50 per cent of total tin consumption. Consumer membership is likely to be increased under the Fourth Agreement. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, which is a substantial producer of tin but on balance a net importer, has signed the Agreement for the first time. The Federal Republic of Germany, the fifth largest consumer of tin, has also signed the new Agreement for the first time. The United States, which is the world's largest con sumer of tin, is not a member. However, it has participated fully in the negotiations and has co-operated with the International Tin Council, especially on matters relating to releases from its present stockpile surplus. 
For most of the post war period Australia has been a net importer of tin and has therefore participated in the three agreements to date as a consuming member. In recent years, however, there has been a significant expansion of production resulting from the development of largescale hard rock mining, especially in Tasmania. Today Australia is a net exporter of significant tonnages of tin and last year exports totalled 4,450 metric tons, valued at $12m, out of a total mine production of 8,850 metric tons. In world terms, Australian exports are small, accounting for only about 3 per cent of world trade. However, the Australian industry is an important sector of our minerals industry and is making a growing contribution to our earnings of foreign exchange. As a net exporter of tin, Australia will be required under the new Agreement to change its status from a consuming to a producing member. Accordingly, as a producing member, Australia will incur obligations relating to the buffer stock and export and stock controls. 
Under the terms of earlier agreements, these obligations have been related to the volume of mine production. In the case of all producing members under these earlier agreements this basis of assessment has been quite reasonable because virtually all their production has been exported. However, in the case of Australia about onehalf of its production is consumed locally and the traditional approach, particularly in assessing our contribution to the buffer stock, would have created an anomaly. In these circumstances it was agreed that in the case of countries such as Australia an alternative basis of assessment related to exports rather than mine production should be used with respect to the determination of contributions to the buffer stock and export controls. On this basis, Australia's contribution to the buffer stock will be about $1.6m, of which some $600,000 will be advanced on entry into force of the Agreement. Provision is made under the Agreement for buffer stock contributions to bc returned on termination of the Agreement, subject to any surplus or deficits resulting from the operation of the buffer stock. In earlier agreements a surplus equivalent to an average return of 6 per cent per annum has been realised. 
I have already noted that under certain circumstances of excess supply, the International Tin Council may authorise export controls in order to supplement the operation of the buffer stock. Under these circumstances there is a provision under the Agreement for producing countries to observe a ceiling on their holdings of stocks. This is a complementary measure designed to avoid an excessive accumulation of stocks. However, in the case of Australia, our stockholding entitlement is equivalent to more than double the industry's current normal stockholding and it is unlikely that in practice this obligation will pose any real difficulties for the Australian industry. 
Australia's participation in the Agreement has been consistent with our policies of supporting international co-operation in commodity marketing arrangements. We have, through membership of the Agreement, sought to co-operate with the main tin producing countries, all of which are developing countries and, in the case of Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia, important regional neighbours. The Australian tin industry has consistently supported Australian membership of the International Tin Agreement and has derived considerable price benefits from the operation of successive agreements. Representatives of the tin industry and also the Australian Mining Industry Council participated at the Geneva conference and were consulted at all stages of the negotiations. 
I am satisfied that the new Fourth International Tin Agreement provides an acceptable basis for Australia's participation in the Agreement as a producing member and I believe that our continued membership of the Agreement should considerably enhance the commercial prospects of our small but expanding tin industry. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Tariff Board's suggestion for a review in about five years' in its 1965 report related to all motor vehicles and components. Such a review would represent a major inquiry. 
The Government has decided there will be a progressive review of the Tariff. The questions of when this review will start and the order in which industries will be referred to the Tariff Board in this review are matters which are shortly to be considered by the Cabinet. 
One of the matters to be taken into account is the likely workload these review references will place on the Tariff Board in addition to normal references. The decision on the timing of a reference on motor vehicles and components will have to be taken in this context. 
In relation to passenger vehicles I have asked my Department to consult with manufacturers, assemblers, importers, and component manufacturers, of passenger vehicles and to report to me on the position reached under the Government's Motor Vehicle Plans and the implications for tariff rates for passenger vehicles. The consultations have commenced and will be comprehensive. 
However, I would expect them to be completed by the middle of the year. After 1 have considered that report and discussed the matter with Cabinet, 1 will then announce the Government's future intentions in this area. 
In relation to commercial vehicles there will be a separate reference to the Tariff Board. For the reasons given earlierI cannot yet say when this will be sent, butI would not expect that a reference for the review of these tariffs would be delayed beyond 1971. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
By way of background 1 would explain that there are 1095 items in the Australian Tariff, and that these are sub-divided further to a total of over 4,000 classifications. 
A reference to the Tariff Board may cover just one classification or pan of an item, or it may refer to the complete item. For this reason it is not possible to state precisely the number of 'industries' whose level of protection has been reviewed in the past 10 years. 
However, 529 items have been examined and reported on by the Tariff Board in whole or in part since 1960. A further 35 items or parts of items not previously reported on are presently with the Tariff Board for inquiry and report. 
The Board is also reviewing duties on a number of non-protective items or . parts of items to see whether me rates could be reduced or eliminated. About 130 of these have not previously been examined by the Board. The Government recently decided that there should be a progressive review of the Tariff. 
Votes at Senate  'Election (Question N. 2478) 
 The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The number' of references held by the Tariff Board upon which no report had been, made at 30lh June 1970, was 54. Of these one reference was subsequently withdrawn and one was superseded by a later reference. Of the remaining 52 references, 39 were still held by the Tariff Board as at 31st March 1971. 
As at 31st March 1971, the number of these 39 references which had been with the Tariff Board for longer than (a) 1 year- 18, (b) 2 years - 9, (c) 3 years - 3, (d) 4 years - 2, (e) more than 4 years- 1 dated 12th October 1965.. 
At that date 6 references had been with the Tariff Board for less than one year. 
As at 31st March 1971, the stage of processing of these outstanding references was - 
Public hearings completed - 36 
Public hearings commenced - 2 
Public hearings pending - 1 lt is no possible to slate when reports will be made on these references. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that automobile companies known to bc active in the field of road safety research have received grants from the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board, which administers the industrial Research and Development Grants Act. 
The grants scheme is designed as a general incentive to increase the overall level of expenditure on industrial research and development in Australia. Grants are not given in relation to specific projects although the nature of a company's research programme is a factor in determining the larger grants. 
Companies provide detailed information about their industrial research and development activities to the Grants Board with the assurance that the information will be treated as confidential and will not be made public. This practice is followed because of the commercial importance lo the companies concerned of the information they provide to the Grants Board. 
The Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board reports annually to the Minister for Trade and Industry on the operation of the Act. Such annual reports have been received for the years 1967-68, 1968-69 and 1969- 70. 
The honourable member has given me a lot of information which I did not know before, but if he has any doubt about the rate of protection that is being given to an industry he automatically is questioning the activities of the Tariff Board because it is the Tariff Board that makes a recommendation to the Government as to the level of protection that is needed for an Australian industry to be economic and efficient, and in 99 per cent of the cases the Government accepts the recommendations of the Tariff Board. If the honourable gentleman is questioning the rate of duty that is being afforded to this industry, he is questioning the activities of the Tariff Board. 
I will try to find out how this can best be done. It might have to be done as a separate addendum that I circulate to all honourable members. But I will be happy to do what I can. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The honourable member has correctly stated the Tariff Board's view that there is an alternative market for brined cherries and this is a significant feature in the Government's acceptance of the Tariff Board's report. However, because of many representations from the industry and from honourable members on both sides of the House my Department arranged for a consultation between the growers, the briners, the canners and the processors to see whether there was a likely alternative market for these cherries in 1971. Negotiations between the briners and the processors up to this date show that the potential market is very doubtful. As a result of this information I referred this matter this morning to the Special Advisory Authority for further advice. The matter having been referred to the Authority he is obliged to make a report to me within 30 days. 
It is true that in the iron and steel industry the tariffs on many products have not been reviewed since the 1920s or the 1930s. Some of them have never been reviewed. There was a review of the tariffs on stainless steel and electrical steel in 1968, and I recall being advised also that in the 1960s there was a review of hoop and strip steel, tinplate, and tube and pipe steel. These are some of the products that have been reviewed but there are many that have not been reviewed. However the Government has announced that there is to be a progressive review of tariffs, and the principles that will be used to carry out this review will be stated by the. Government. This matter is before me at the moment and, as the honourable member would know, I have been having a series of consultations and discussions with the various sections of the economy. As soon as the Government arrives at a decision, I will make a statement in the House. We will then lay down the timing, the sequence and the priority of the reviews to be carried out and no doubt in the course of time the iron and steel products will be examined. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes one simple, though vital, amendment to the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act 1956-1970, namely, that the maximum contingent liability which the Corporation may accept under contracts of export payments insur ance and under guarantees be increased from$300m to $500m. Export payments insurance is an important competitive element in international trading. More than 30 overseas countries provide this facility to their exporters. In Australia, export payments insurance has been provided since 1957 by the Export Payments Insurance Corporation, thus enabling Australian exporters to be protected against the risk of non-payment of foreign accounts. Under another associated facility agreed to by Parliament in 1964, the Corporation may give guarantees to commercial lending institutions as a means of assisting export ers seeking financial accommodation in respect of insured transactions involving deferred payment terms. 
When the Corporation enters into a contract of payments insurance with an exporter, and when the Corporation gives a repayment guarantee to a lending institution, it accepts a commitment that, if certain things should happen, it will pay according to the terms of those instruments. In other words, it accepts a contingent liability. It follows that, the greater the volume of export business that EPIC insures and the more often it helps the financing of exporters by providing its guarantees, the higher will its contingent liability become. There is a statutory limit, however, on the amount of contingent liability which the Corporation may accept. This limit is not imposed as if to put a brake on the Corporation's commercial operations. It applies because the Commonwealth is ultimate guarantor of EPIC and Parliament should have the opportunity to determine, from time to time, the level of commitments which the Corporation may assume. The following table shows the growth in the amount of maximum contingent liability under payments insurance and guarantees as approved by Parliament since the Corporation was established in 1956. 
Export Payments Insurance Corporation 

<graphic href="072131197104223_26_0.jpg"></graphic>

When the Corporation's maximum contingent liability was last determined by Parliament in June 1970, it was estimated that the ceiling of $300m then approved would be adequate to cope with the expansion of business by the Corporation during at least the following two years. However, several largely unforeseen developments since June 1970 have increased business so substantially that, already, the Corporation's contingent liabilities have almost reached the $300m ceiling. Unless the ceiling is raised the Corporation will have no alternative to declining the support of its payments insurance and guarantee facilities for a large volume of export business. 
The principal factor in this unexpectedly rapid build-up in contingent liability is the insurance of wheat export transactions. This business is entirely new - it dates only from January of this year - and the amount of contingent liability involved is very high. Since June, 1970, the Corporation has also insured, and given guarantees in respect of, a higher than expected value of capital goods exports sold on long term credit. In respect of these transactions it &gt;.s the length of the credit term, as much as the value involved, which is of concern because the related contingent liability is run off very slowly. Honourable members will be interested to know that most of this long term business consists of capital goods exports to the copper development on Bougainville. Had it not been for an amendment of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act which Parliament agreed to last year, these contracts could not have received the support of the Corporation's facilities and, in consequence, many valuable orders would not have been won for Australia. 
Apart from these 2 major new elements there has been a higher than average rate of gain in the Corporation's operations generally. This reflects, in part, the increasing success of Australian industries, particularly manufacturing industry, in finding export markets for their products. It reflects, also, the worldwide trend towards more and longer term credit trading as a result of strong international competition for markets. The importance of the Corporation's facilities as support for the efforts of Australian exporters can hardly be overstated. Indeed, the Corporation's operations have become a vital competitive element in Australia's export trading. Since it commenced operations in 19S7 EPIC has insured exports worth $ 1,400m, and, at the end of March, 1971, had policies current with a face value of $424m. The rate of increase in the Corporation's business is seen in the fact that only 9 months earlier, that is, at the end of the 1969-70 financial year, the face value of policies then current was $343m. 
The Corporation has discharged its responsibilities with both initiative and prudence. It has encouraged and expanded export business by making its facilities available to an ever-widening field of exporters and export transactions. It has at the same time ensured that the cost of its services to exporters has been kept to the lowest possible level. In fact, after some 14 years of operation, the Corporation's excess of premium income over claims and operating expenses has amounted to a bare $238,000. Australia, and Australian exporters in particular, are fortunate in having, in the Export Payments Insurance Corporation, a body which has made a real contribution to the country's growth. It is estimated that the Corporation could operate for about 2 years within the proposed new ceiling of $500m. However, this estimate provides no leeway for unforeseen occurrences such as new projects similar to Bougainville. Developments of this kind might create a need for Parliament to further review the Corporation's liability limit earlier than is now expected. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to seek the approval of the Parliament for the ratification of the Wheat Trade Convention and the Food Aid Convention of the International Wheat Agreement 1971. This new Agreement was negotiated at a conference held in Geneva in January and February of this year under the auspices of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development - UNCTAD. Fifty-three countries participated fully in the negotiations and a further 17 countries were represented as observers. The Agreement is scheduled to enter into force on 1st July 1971 on the expiry of the International Grains Arrangement. 
The new International Wheat Agreement is the seventh in a series of agreements since 1949 designed to stabilise the international trade in wheat. The form of the present International Grains Arrangement has been continued and the new Agreement comprises 2 separate legal instruments, namely the Wheat Trade Convention and the Food Aid Convention. The 2 conventions are linked together by a preamble. Copies of the new agreement have been distributed to honourable members. 
The primary objective of the Wheat Trade Convention is the furtherance of international co-operation in connection with world wheat problems. A very important element of any international commodity agreement is the opportunity it provides for close and continuing consultation and co-operation between those countries with a, major importing or exporting interest in the product concerned. The new Wheat Trade Convention ensures that the machinery for consultation and co-operation on wheat marketing which has been developed over the past 20 years will be maintained for the next 3 years. The International Wheat Council, which has been the forum for international co-operation since 1949, will continue in existence. The Agreement provides for the full reporting and record ing of all commercial and concessional transactions in wheat and flour. The world wheat market will be kept under continuous review and the Wheat Council will coordinate appropriate action to deal with any situation of market instability which may develop in the life of the Agreement. All participants at the recent conference pledged their support for orderly marketing and recognised the need for international co-operation in order to achieve stability of the international wheat market. 
The new Wheat Trade Convention differs from earlier agreements in that it contains no specific pricing provisions. It is unfortunate perhaps that acceptable pricing arrangements could not be negotiated in Geneva but this outcome needs to be assessed against the nature of the pricing provisions in earlier agreements and the background of events in recent years. The pricing provisions of successive wheat agreements between 1949 and 1967 were related to agreed minimum and maximum prices for the highest quality wheat traded internationally. This reference wheat was the top Canadian wheat - No. 1 Manitoba Northern. The minimum and maximum prices established for this grade of wheat were in the nature of a benchmark to which price levels of all other wheats were related. It is important to understand that there were no specific price levels established for the other wheats traded internationally, including Australian wheats, in these earlier agreements. Various formulas were used to determine equivalent minimum and maximum prices f.o.b. at ports of origin for other wheats while quality differentials were determined by market forces. Thus actual market prices had considerable freedom of movement according to quality, market conditions and changes in freight and exchange rates. 
Honourable members will be familiar with the terms of the present International Grains Arrangement which the new Agreement will replace. Under the IGA, minimum and maximum prices were established for 14 major wheats traded internationally. These prices were expressed f.o.b. at United States Gulf ports and for the first time reflected agreed quality differentials as between the wheats specified in the Agreement. The International Grains Arrangement represented a considerable step forward in that it made a real attempt to determine price relativities or differentials as between different grades of wheat and thereby held oat the prospect of more effective pricing arrangements over the whole regimen of wheats traded internationally. Unfortunately, the entry into force of the IGA in mid-1968 coincided with a sharp and unexpected decline in the available world wheat market. Most major wheat exporting and importing countries enjoyed very favourable climatic conditions in 1968-69 with the result that production expanded and the world market contracted by nearly  6  million tons or some 11 per cent on the previous year. 
In these circumstances, adherence to the agreed price relativities as between different wheats traded internationally led to a distortion of traditional trade patterns. In particular, the relative shares of the market previously enjoyed by the major exporters, Canada and the United States, declined sharply. The situation became so serious that prices were reduced below the specified minimum levels only 9 months after entry into force of the International Grains Arrangement. The pricing provisions of the present Agreement have, in effect, been inoperative since that time. Nevertheless co-operation on wheat marketing issues has prevailed over the intervening period. An understanding was reached at a ministerial meeting of exporters in Washington in July 1969 on corrective action to bring prices into a more competitive relationship at around the reduced levels in the interests of orderly marketing and price stability. 
The action taken at this and subsequent meetings avoided the threat of chaos. Since that time there has been an improvement in the market outlook. Prices have recovered and currently are generally at or about the minimum levels specified in the present Agreement. It was against this background that the recent negotiating conference was held in Geneva. Those exporting countries which considered they had been disadvantaged by the operation of the International Grains Arrangement were reluctant to accept new commitments with respect to prices under any new agreement. The negotiations in Geneva were further complicated by the fact that Canada - the world's largest commercial exporter - is undertaking a comprehensive review of its wheat grading system. 
Entirely new wheat classifications will be progressively introduced from the beginning of the new Canadian crop year in August. Under the new system, traditional Canadian grades, such as No. 1 Manitoba Northern, will disappear and it will be some time presumably before the relative values of the new Canadian wheats will have been established on world markets. 
It is necessary to stress that despite lack of agreement in Geneva on price objectives, all the major exporting countries are agreed on the need to obtain stable and remunerative prices for their sales of wheat. In fact, the Agreement specifically provides that when it is judged that prices and related rights and obligations are capable of successful negotiation, the International Wheat Council shall arrange a further conference with the objective of bringing them into effect within the life of the Agreement. There are quite good prospects of achieving market stability with prices at reasonably satisfactory levels. It is estimated that world trade has increased by some 20 per cent since 1968-69. Moreover, a number of important producers, including the United States, Canada and Australia, are operating restraints over production in one form or another in an effort to achieve a better balance between the supply and demand for wheat. The Government believes that market stability can be realised provided effective co-operation is maintained within the International Wheat Council. 
The new Agreement will ensure that the machinery for consultation and cooperation will be maintained. I am further encouraged by the possibility that the membership of the new Agreement will be somewhat wider than was the case with the IGA which did not include major exporters and importers such as the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Brazil. I can assure honourable members that the Australian Wheat Board and the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation endorse the terms of the Wheat Trade Convention. The  Chairman  and the General Manager of the Wheat Board and the  President  of the Wheatgrowers' Federation attended the Geneva conference and participated fully in the negotiations. Honourable members will recall that the International Grains Arrangement contained a Food Aid Convention. This was the first time that such a provision had been included in an international agareement on wheat. This worthwhile innovation has been continued under the new agreement. 
The new Food Air Convention is basically unchanged on the present arrangement. A number of developed countries, importers and exporters alike, will continue to provide developing countries with food aid in the form of grains or flour for human consumption. The individual contributions under the new programme are spelt out in the Convention. Australia's contribution will remain unchanged at 225,000 metric tons. As was the case with the earlier convention, Japan will enter a reservation entitling it to provide aid in the form of rice and a limited quantity of agricultural materials. The new Convention has fewer members than its predecessor. The United Kingdom, Denmark and Norway have declined to join the new convention. In addition, Sweden has decided to reduce its contribution from 54,000 metric tons to 35,000 tons. However, the overall effect of these changes is only marginal with the total annual contributions being reduced by 6.7 per cent (285,000 tons) from 4,259,000 metric tons to 3,974,000 tons. 
Several minor changes have also been incorporated in the new Convention. A new clause provides that in exceptional cases, and on request, limited quantities of rice may be included in the programme. Also, sales on credit terms of 20 years or more will be eligible to be counted against aid commitments provided that maximum use is made of the other eligible forms of aid such as grants and sales of non-transferable local currency. There is no doubt that the need for food aid conventions will continue well into the present decade, particularly in those parts of Asia adjacent to Australia. In these circumstances, the renegotiation of this aid programme is a timely development emphasising as it does the common responsibility of affluent countries to share the burden of food aid. The new Agreement provides for continued international co-operation in the commercial marketing of wheat and for a continued high level of food aid to developing countries. I believe that it is the most satisfactory Agreement that is capable of nego tiation at this point of time. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
Quite a number of Australian businessmen attended the Canton Trade Fair. I believe about 100 were there. As a result of their attendance some very useful contracts have been obtained for Australian industry. The question of setting up a trade post in the People's Republic of China is a policy matter and one which I do not intend to discuss here today. I know of no officers of my Department having gone to China. Contact may have been made with the China Resources Board in 
Hong Kong from time to time. But the policy of the Government has been that any trade arrangements with the People's Republic of China have been made on an industry basis. 
The honourable member is quite wrong if he is under the impression that in ministerial discussions and conferences no concern has been expressed by Australia regarding the effect on certain rural industries in Australia of Britain's entry into the EEC if Britain abides by the agricultural policies of the EEC. In fact, for some of our rural industries it will be quite critical. I am thinking of the sugar industry and the zonal effect in that area, the dairying industry, the apple industry in Tasmania, and also the canned fruit industry and the dried vine fruit industry. Many industries will be affected, and the degree of impact will vary. We have not reserved our position in expressing our concern to the British Government in this direction. I certainly intend during my visit to the EEC capitals and the United Kingdom to put before the people of those countries the serious impact Britain's entry could have on these industries. I hope that they might consider, when drawing up the terms and conditions of Britain's entry, how the impact on these Australian industries might be alleviated. But the Government is concerned, and we will do our utmost to try to protect our industries. 
If an industry is being grievously harmed by imports of certain articles it has a right to come along to my Department and put forward a case for emergency protection. The Government examines the evidence. If the industry has a bona fide case then it is referred to the Special Advisory Authority which can give temporary protection. Once having been given temporary protection, of course, the industry is then referred to the Tariff Board for a full and complete investigation and recommendations are made to the Government. I would suggest that if this industry is going through the predicament which the honourable member suggests it might consider going through the normal procedures. 
by leave -in recent months the Government has given close consideration to its policies as they affect manufacturing industry, and particularly to questions of tariff policy. Government policy on tariffs cannot be properly evaluated, or even understood, in isolation. It needs to be seen in relation to the potential, and the problems, of the whole range of industries affected by protection and the place of those industries in the Australian economy. The sector of the economy which benefits most from tariff protection is undoubtedly manufacturing. However, it should not be overlooked that a very wide range of primary industries also receive some measure of tariff protection. 
It is to manufacturing industry in particular, and the role of manufacturing in the Australian economy, that consideration must be given in any appraisal of tariff policy. Manufacturing provides some  28  per cent of our gross national product and  28  per cent oftotal employment. If we add to those directly employed in manufacturing industry those employed in providing services for the manufacturing industries a substantial proportion of all Australian employees are dependent on manufacturing for a livelihood. 
The value of factory output has been doubling every 9 or 10 years. The growth in exports of manufactures has been even more dramatic. Twenty years ago exports of manufactures amounted to only $50m or 4 per cent of our total exports. Indications are that in the current year they will exceed $S00m and provide a fifth of our total exports.  Major contributions  are being made by chemicals, motor vehicles and parts, and iron and steel. Processed foodstuffs will provide another fifth. 
Aggregate figures, however, do not reveal the whole story. Australian industry has not simply grown bigger over the last 10 or 20 years; it has greatly diversified and has acquired great new technical capacity and strength. This increasing sophistication of Australian industry has enabled it to compete more and more for sales in international markets as the figures I have quoted show. The truth is that Australia is now an industrial nation. What we become and how well we succeed in developing this country and raising the economic and social living standards of our people will depend to a large extent on how well we succeed in realising the potential, and overcoming the problems, of the industrial sector. 
All these are matters that must be borne in mind when we consider questions of tariff policy. At the same time we have to consider the facts of the Australian environment. We are a young country with a small population occupying a continent of 3 million square miles. This provides us with a potential based on abundant natural resources. At the same time it involves some important disadvantages. Compared with their counterparts in many industrial countries overseas our industries have a small domestic market scattered over a vast continent. Australia is moreover far from the main world markets. 
Because Australia is a young country with a relatively small economy not many Australian companies have massive resources available for investment in major projects, or for the development of technology, on a scale comparable with resources available to their overseas competitors. To sustain a fast rate of growth Australia must attract the investment of both domestic and overseas capital in its manufacturing industry. The business community must have confidence in the future of Australian industry if it is to invest its money. For this reason it is essential for industry to know where it stands in relation to Government policy. 
Many Australian industries face costs higher than those of their overseas competitors for reasons beyond their control arising from the Australian natural and social environment. I have in mind such things as wage costs arising from our policies of full employment and our high living standards, high transport and power costs, and increased costs arising because the scale of production is often unavoidably small. No government can ignore the existence of these basic economic facts of life. It is because of them that we must have an effective system of protection for the manufacturing sector if it is to make its necessary contribution to our national growth. This does not mean that we should have protection at any price. We must be selective. Protection of industries involves a cost to the community. It is the responsibility of government to seek to ensure that protection is afforded only where the benefits to the community exceed the cost involved, and even then, that the protection given is no higher than is necessary. 
But let us make no mistake about it. The dramatic growth of manufacturing industry in the post-war period, and the contribution made by that growth to our national development has been made possible in large measure because there has been an effective policy of protection. It has for many years been the firm policy of all Australian governments that reasonable and adequate protection should be afforded to economic and efficient Australian industries. This basic policy has not been seriously challenged. The present interest in tariff matters is not directed at this basic proposition but is concerned with a reappraisal of the practical application of that policy. Such a reappraisal I believe is timely, given the increasing importance, maturity and sophistication of Australian manufacturing industry. 
 Governments have long recognised that deciding what industries should be protected, by how much and by what means, is a very difficult as well as a very important task which can only be carried out satisfactorily on the basis of an adequate knowledge and analysis of all the relevant facts. Accordingly, successive governments since 1921 have sought the advice of the Tariff Board before reaching decisions on these matters. 
 The Tariff Board system has proved of great value. With the aid of its substantial and experienced staff the Board has developed procedures to enable it to conduct public and detailed inquiries into the circumstances of industries before arriving at its recommendations. The Tariff Board was established as an independent advisory body and governments have scrupulously maintained its independence since its foundation. The good sense of having the Tariff Board undertake its work objectively, and with a minimum of direction, has commended itself to all governments. 
  In special circumstances successive gov ernments have from time to time given the Board directions in relation to a particular industry being reviewed - for example, ship-building and machine tools for defence reasons. Any such directions have invariably been included in the terms of reference to the Tariff Board and so have been public information. The Government will continue to do this where it is considered necessary. 
 For nearly 40 years the Tariff Board, in recommending protection, has had only two specific guidelines, both contained in commitments given in the 1932 and 1957 trade agreements with the United Kingdom. These were that protection would be afforded only to those industries reasonably assured of sound opportunities for success; and that protection would not exceed a level which would give United Kingdom industry full opportunity for reasonable competition on the basis of the relative costs of 'economic and efficient' production. In addition to this traditional guidance, it has been indicated that the Board should have in its mind the national economic objectives as a whole. 
Governments have considered at times whether further guidance was needed to meet new circumstances as they have arisen over the years but they have not felt this necessary. It has been felt that the basic policy of giving reasonable protection to industries judged to be economic and efficient should remain, and that specific Tariff Board recommendations should continue to be based on a judgment arising from a thorough examination of all the factors relevant to the particular case before it. In recent years the Tariff Board has, quite properly, been examining whether it can continue to fulfil effectively its role of advising the Government in today's circumstances onthe basis of principles derived from the circumstances of the 1930s. It has concluded, and has reported its conclusions in its recent annual reports, that changes in circumstances have made the traditional tariff making principles and practices inadequate to deal with the current requirements of the economy. Accordingly, the Tariff Board has developed a. new approach to its work which involves a systematic review of the tariff, and the establishment' and use of points of reference' based on the concept of effective rates of protection. 
Points of reference represent levels of effective protection reflecting in the Board's view, 'high', 'medium', and 'low' cost production. The Board considers that 'high' cost production is that where effective rates of protection exceed 50 per cent; 'medium' cost production is where effective rates exceed 25 per cent but do not exceed 50 per cent; and 'low' cost production is where effective rates are 25 per cent or less. 
In the area it defines as high cost the Board has said that, subject to any noneconomic considerations which the Government may wish to have taken into account, its recommendations will aim at least to contain industries, other than those demonstrating clearly compensating external benefits and those which can show beyond reasonable doubt prospects of operating with substantially lower levels of protection within a reasonable time. In dealing with industries in the medium protection range the Board has said that it will adopt a watchful attitude. It will, for example, have particular regard for their future prospects and likely influence on the prospects of other industries. In dealing with industries it defines as 'low cost', the Board has said it will adopt a liberal attitude, aimed at encouraging the maximum expansion in this area. After considering the views expressed by the Tariff Board the Government decided in January that there should be a progressive review of the tariff and that the principles to be followed by the Tariff Board in the review - or in the case of applications for new tariff levels - should be the subject of further examination by the Government. 
Before this further examination I considered that it would be desirable for me tq hold discussions with various groups interested in this question. I have talked with representatives of the Manufacturing Industries Advisory Council, the Conference of National Manufacturing Industries Associations, the Associated. Chambers of Commerce of Australia, arid, the Australian Farmers' Federation which included on this occasion a representative of the Australian Woolgrowers' , and Graziers' Council I have talked also with the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board. These discussions showed that there is general acceptance of the proposed systematic review pf the tariff. There was also general acceptance of the Board's suggestion that the review should begin with industries in the Board's high' cost category which have not recently been reviewed. 'Machinery' and Manufactures . of Metal' have been nominated by. the Board as the first 2 areas to be reviewed. References covering the remainder of Chapter 84 of the Tariff which deals with 'Machinery' will be forwarded to the Board in the near future to be followed in due course by references in the area of 'Manufactures of Metal'. This will get the review under way. 
During the Government's examination of this question, including the consultations with interested groups, it became clear that, whilst there is no objection to the use of the Tariff Board's points of reference in determining the sequence of the tariff review, there is considerable anxiety amongst manufacturers that these points of reference will become the main determinant in setting levels of protection. In these circumstances the Government has considered that it should make its attitude to tariff policy quite clear. The 2 basic principles of the tariff policy of successive Australian governments have been, first, that the Government itself is responsible for all decisions and, second, that before reaching its decisions, the Government seeks the advice of an independent Tariff Board. The Government reaffirms support for both of these basic principles. The independence of the Tariff Board will be preserved. 
The first principle of Government responsibility for decisions is just as important. The Tariff Board is an advisory body and has never been anything else. The decisions and the responsibility rest with the Government. For this- reason there is value in restating the kinds of considerations which the Government must necessarily take into account in reaching its decisions. The Government sees no reason to change its basic approach. It believes that reasonable and adequate protection should be given to worthwhile industries, taking into account all relevant considerations. From the Government's point of view, the economic worth of an industry to the nation requires a judgment on whether the benefits derived by the community from the existence of that industry outweigh or otherwise the costs to the community of providing adequate protection to it. More generally, the maintenance of a competitive industrial structure is of central importance to the Government both for promoting sound economic growth and for the most efficient use of the nation's resources. 
Clearly, the higher the protection needed the more important it becomes to take the costs to the community fully into account and the more critically must the case for such protection be assessed. However, no Government can decide its tariff polity on considerations of cost alone. The task which the Government faces is to make the right decision in each case in the national interest, taking into account the costs involved and the benefits. This is a very difficult task. Generally speaking the benefits are more diverse and harder to measure than the costs. Perhaps this is why there appears to have been, in recent public discussion on tariffs, preoccupation with cost aspects with less consideration for the benefits. Benefits to the community from the existence of an industry which a government must consider in making its judgments on the level of protection provided include, but go wider than, the direct relationships which one industry may have with another in providing inputs or using outputs. For example, an industry may make a significant contribution to the employment of special classes of labour;it may contribute to the development of special skills of significant value to other industries; it may contribute to technological development; it may make a particular contribution to export earnings; it may provide domestic competition for imports and bring the price of imports down. 
Similarly, there can be highly significant non-economic implications which a government must take into account in considering the protection to be afforded an industry. Examples are where factories in decentralised locations provide major employment opportunities, or where an industryhas defence significance. The Government's responsibility, moreover, is not limited to reaching a judgment as to the relative costs and benefits of providing adequate protection for an industry at a particular point in time. A judgment must be made of the likely balance ofcosts andbenefits in the years ahead. Governments cannot make basic decisions affecting important industries without giving most careful thought to the likely results of those decisions. 
The assessment of the worth of an industry and the establishment of appropriate rates of protection is and always will be a matter calling for the exercise of judgment. The Tariff Board has explained that its points of reference are not in themselves definitive or independent criteria for assessing the economics of local activities; that the existence of high levels of protection does not necessarily mean that an industry is uneconomic; and that an element of judgment will always be involved in the assessment of external effects. This is certainly the Government's view. 
The worth of an industry cannot be adequately assessed if undue reliance is placed on the points of reference without adequate consideration of other relevant factors like those I have mentioned. It is clear that the more comprehensively' the Tariff Board is able to take into account the significant economic and non-economic factors which the Government itself must take into account, the more valuable its reports will be to the Government. Similarly, the more comprehensively the Board is able to support its recommendations with a full exposition of the factual basis and its analysis of the facts, the more informed the Government will be when exercising its judgment and arriving at its decision. It is also evident that the Government needs as clear advice as the Tariff Board can give in its reports to enable the Government to reach judgments on the likely consequences of implementing the Board's recommendations. 
There is one other aspect I want to mention. The Government has considered a suggestion by a number of leading industry associations that there would be advantage in having the simpler types of tariff cases dealt with by one member of the Board so that decisions could be reached more quickly. The cases concerned are those which do not involve consideration of the 'economic and efficient' criteria. Consultations have been held with the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board on this matter. 
The Government has decided that matters such as Customs by-laws, both admissions under by-law and simpler cases of cancellation of by-laws, tariff classification, dumping, the addition of goods to the New Zealand/ Australia Free Trade Area and questions relating to the granting of concessional entry of products from lesserdeveloped countries could be handled in this way. It is proposed to introduce amendments to the Tariff Board Act to allow for the addition of a ninth member to the Board and to authorise the  Chairman  of the Board to appoint single member Boards to inquire into the types of cases I have mentioned. Details of the amendments proposed will be announced as soon as possible. This action should also be of assistance to the Tariff Board in the handling of its other work including the progressive review now to be undertaken. I present the following paper: 
Tariff Policy - Ministerial Statement, 28 April 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the House take note  of  the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See answer to question (1). 
Tariffs: Man-made Fibres (Question No. 2772) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
It would not be proper for me to name the individual firms which have made representations. 
and (4) The Textile Council established a committee of industry representatives to liaise with Departmental officers. On several occasion the committee has held discussions with Departmental officers. (5), (6) and (7) To date the Committee has submitted no proposals which would require a decision by me or by the Department of Trade and Industry. The Department, however, has furnished advice to the committee and has made arrangements for a joint detailed watch on the import situation. 
I have received a report from the Tariff Board and . a decision on this matter is imminent. This matter has been before the Government for a period of time - I cannot recall just how long - but I would hope that in the very near future a statement will be made. This is a complex question which needs a little examination. I understand the need for the industry to have this decision and the concern that is being expressed. I would have hoped to table the report during this week so that the House could debate it, but I do not think it is possible to do so in view of the present time table. However, I certainly want to present the report as soon as possible. 
Exports of Australia's meat to the United States market for the first quarter are down quite considerably on the previous year. For the period from November to March last we exported 62,500 tons as against 96,000. tons for the same period last year. In other words, it means that in the balance of the year we will have to export 75 per cent of our quota as against only 60 per cent for this period last year. The reason is that the amount of beef and veal coming on to the market is not the same as for last year. It is also reflected in the heavy demand for meat from other countries. Our exports to Japan, the United Kingdom and particularly the Soviet Union are up on the previous year. How. ever. I certainly hope that we will be able to fulfill the quota that has been allocated to us by the United States. The Department of Primary Industry, my Department and the Australian Meat Board will be meeting next week with exporters to see. what arrangements can be made to increase our supply to the United States market. We feel that more beef will be coming onto the market as a result of the commencement of operations at the northern meatworks shortly. II is from these works that quite a considerable amount of our meat is , exported to the United States. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Total value of grain exports to Mainland China for the past 8 financial years and the first 6 months of the 1970-71 financial year were as follows: 
Total value of all items (including grain) exported to Mainland China for the past 8 financial years and the first 6 months of the 1970-71 financial year were as follows - 
There is no foundation at all for any suggestion that Australia discriminates against the People's Republic of China. We apply the same General 
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade rules to trading with the People's Republic as we do with other countries, although it is not a member of GATT. Under GATT certain rules and regulations provide for non-discrimination between trading countries. Those rules and regulations apply to China, which is a most favoured nation. In one or two cases, such as with footwear and the machine tools industry, recommendations have been made by our tariff-making authorities to increase the tariff and so put an impediment in the way of goods coming from that country but this applied to other countries as well as to mainland China. 
Regarding the second part of the question, I am not yet in a position to make a full statement about the Government's examination of any liberalisation or relaxation of trade with the People's Republic. However the Government has been working on the list of restricted goods that applies to that country. Our restrictions have been based mainly on strategic materials and whilst there is no intention to ease the restrictions on warlike or nuclear materials and goods, the Government has examined the list of goods that are at present restricted and it hopes, in the near future, to be able to publish a list of all goods which are restricted and all goods which are not restricted. Interested companies and businesses will be able to apply to the Department of Customs and Excise in respect of goods which are not restricted, knowing that there is no restriction on them. Items on the restricted list will be examined and reviewed continually and if exceptions are possible they will be made in the course of time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australian trade with these countries has been as follows: 
I think we are all very concerned about the announcement by President Nixon about putting a surcharge on imports into the United States of America. Fortunately for Australia, about 70 per cent of our exports to that country go there under some sort of quota arrangement, either a voluntary arrangement or a fixed quota. There is a voluntary arrangement for meat, but it could become a fixed quota arrangement should the trigger ..mechanism be brought into play. We do not have ali the information we would like about the 10 per cent surcharge on exports to the United States. 
Specific reference has been made to meat. No surcharge will be imposed on meat. When I refer to meat I am referring to beef, veal, mutton and goat on which the voluntary restraints operate. Unfortunately, lamb and processed meats do not enter ' the United States under those arrangements. It is therefore expected that the 10 per cent surcharge, will apply to lamb and processed meats. The actual value of meat going to the United States under these arrangements which will not have the disability imposed upon it is about $2 15m. That is very fortunate for the meat industry. 
The reason for the Opposition motion is a series of events which took place over the last week or so culminating in the resignation of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  from his position in the Ministry and from the position of  Deputy  Leader of his Party. It is suggested that these events have led to a situation in which we have a Prime Minister and a government who are not fit to hold office. This is what the Labor Party wants this House and the Australian people to believe. However, it is most- noticeable on this occasion that members of the Labor Party, who normally have an obsession to bring censure motions before the House, ran from the issue today. They knew full well that the Government ranks would remain solid and that they were wasting their lime. Instead, what did they do? They lowered themselves to the lowest form of political battle - character assassination - running from Government policies, running from party policies and attacking the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  smearing wherever they could and hoping that by denigrating his character they could lower the standard of this Government. 
I heard various questions being asked at question time and I heard the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  trying to make out that  Sir Frank  Packer was the villain in the whole operation.  Sir Frank  Packer has been quite unequivocal in his opposition to Socialist policies and Labor governments, and members of the Opposition no doubt are taking this opportunity to try to smear him also. There has been reference to talks about leaks from Cabinet. The honourable member for Wentwortb  (Mr Bury)  described the situation as he saw it in quite picturesque terms. The deplorable fact is that whilst Cabinet does not perhaps leak like a sieve. Cabinet matters at times do seem to drip out. This is obvious to everyone, and it is to be deplored, lt must .not be condoned for one minute, but we must accept that.it is difficult to lay the blame in any single direction. From our experience as members of this House we all know that the people who work in the Press Gallery are very skilled at obtaining information from various sources and then putting it all together to try to present a complete picture. The various sources can be any part of the enormous government machine. 
I am sure that members of the Labor Party would be the first to agree that the discussions of their caucus are far from secret, No doubt if the Labor Party gol into office there would be a miracle overnight and there would never bc any leaks from a Labor Cabinet. If this debate serves no other purpose I -hope it will be a reminder to each of us in this House of the responsibilities we carry to our parties, to our colleagues in the Government, to our colleagues in the Opposition and, most important, to the nation. 
On the question of the matters which arc under discussion I say only this: Both the Prime Minister and the right honourable member for Higgins over the last few weeks were placed in the most difficult and unenviable positions. 1 understand completely the action of the right honourable member for Higgins in replying to attacks made on him - in some cases quite vicious attacks - and his desire to explain and defend his position. Any red-blooded Australian subjected to the same kinds of attack would want to do, and probably would do, the same thing. He would be a most unusual man if be did- not. But I believe also that the Prime Minister, if he is to maintain the absolute principle of Cabinet responsibility and solidarity, could have taken no action other than he did. 
Various points of view have been put forward on the question of what constitutes a breach of Cabinet responsibility and solidarity. My own view is that it is possible for it to be claimed that in the absence of the publication of any specific information relating to Cabinet discussion or in the absence of any attribution of points of view to particular Cabinet members there is technically no breach, but 1 believe that there does not have to be PaY specific action of this nature to constitute a breach of the vital principle involved. The action of the right honourable member for Higgins in writing for publication while a member of Cabinet, and the nature of the writing, in my view did constitute a breach of the principle. In short, I believe that both men - the right honourable member for Higgins, for reasons he has given, and the Prime Minister, for reasons he has given - were compelled to act as they did. 
Now, the Labor Party, I suppose understandably, but quite detestably, in my opinion, uses the savagery of politics to capitalise on this drama. The man for whom I feel sorry in all this is the Leader of the Opposition. How frustrating it must be to be reduced to the position of having to seek power not on one's own merits but through the difficulties of one's opponents. It seems to be the only desperate ploy that he has left these days. Here are a man and a party who have failed time and time again to win acceptance of their policies; to win the confidence of the Australian people. The Leader of the Opposition has never been able to put forward a policy that has been backed strongly enough by the Australian people to put him and his Party into office. How galling it must be to lead a party that has been in Opposition for 22 years; how humiliating to lead a party that in  70  years of federation has been out of office for over  50  years. 
Today we see the Leader of the Labor Party brought to a state of trying to gain power, not through his own standing or his Party's standing or their policies, but through the passing problems of another party. What a tragedy to see the Labor Party and its Leader in this predicament of having to try to sneak into office through the back door after having failed so miserably and regularly and continually to get into office through the front door of acceptability to the Australian people. The aim of this motion by the Opposition is  to  create a situation which it sees as giving it a chance to govern the nation and to create divisions in the ranks of the Government by playing on personalities. What a noble and honourable way in which to try to gain control of the Treasury bench of this nation! 
What does a Labor government mean. It means a socialistic, trade union dominated government, and I would find it hard to imagine a Labor government in which  Mr Hawke  did not play some part. But let us look at just one aspect, that of primary industry policy. This is one of the most important and most difficult areas, calling for a strong and united approach from both Government and industry. But we find the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  saying that Labor's approach consists of 'a loose patchwork of totally unrelated propositions'. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  found this an incredible, untrue statement, and he said that it showed the colossal ignorance of a person who should know better. This is Labor unity. When the Australian Labor Party Conference in Launceston in June amended the rural policy report of the honourable member for Dawson, he explained this by saying that very few members of the Conference knew anything about rural matters. 
 The following is provided in answer to the honourable member's question: 
The expansion of Australia's exports to non-Commonwealth countries has been hindered by various tariff and non-tariff barriers imposed by those countries. 
There is no evidence, however, that these barriers are related to the continuation of Commonwealth preferences. The Government has sought and will continue to seek improved conditions of access for Australian products in all markets. 
and (3) It is not possible to estimate the net effect of Commonwealth preferences on revenue from Customs duties without data on the elasticities of supply and demand for each good imported into Australia. As this data is not available, no estimates have been made. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The new textile factory referred to by the honourable member is a joint venture between two Japanese companies, Tomen Co. Ltd and Konebo Spinning Co. Ltd, and the Indonesian state-owned spinning mill P. T. Industri Sandang. The new company's name is Konebo Tomen Sandang Synthetic Mills. 
This is not the first venture by Japanese textile companies in Indonesia. The Indonesian Government is placing particular importance on the development of the textile industry in Indonesia with a view to achieving eventual self sufficiency in the production of cheaper type cotton and synthetic fabrics needed by that country's population. To achieve the desired expansion in textile production a number of Indonesian mills have concluded joint venture arrangements with Japanese companies which supply technical assis-lance, capital and machinery. In addition, the Japanese Government has been known to offer training programmes in Japan for Indonesian mill operators and management. 
Indonesia's domestic demand for textiles is almost entirely limited to cotton and synthetics. There have been no significant imports of raw or processed wool into Indonesia in the past and there are no immediate plans for utilisation of these products by the Indonesian industry. Nor does the Indonesian Government give any priority to the development of the woollen textile industry ' during their current five year development plan. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
According to official figures published by the Indonesian Government - 
In the 4 years to December 1970, approval was given to 10 Australian investment projects in Indonesia. 
The total amount of investment involved is $US10.4m. 
Condensed milk plant - Djakarta 
Shoe polish plant - Djakarta. 
Steel and plastic containers plant - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In 1967-68,. 12,478 cwt of Duboisia leaves were exported. Exports declined to 9,812. cwt in 1968-69 and increased to 10,799 cwt in 1969-70. 
Over the period, the Federal Republic of Germany has been Australia's main export market for Duboisia leaf. In 1969-70, Germany accounted for 73 per cent of Australia's exports of Duboisia leaf. Other export markets are Japan, Switzerland and Belgium-Luxembourg. 
 The answers  to  the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
There are two manufacturers of polyvinyl.chloride in Australia, Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand Ltd, and B. F. Goodrich Chemicals Ltd. 
and (3) Details are not available. 
Vinyl chloride polymers and copolymers in the form of liquids, pastes, blocks, powders, granules, flakes, waste or scrap are dutiable at the rates of 60 per cent General, 50 per- cent Preferential, and in addition, a support value duty which is imposed only on those imports where the landed duty-paid cost is below $400 per ton. 
Import clearances of vinyl chloride polymers and copolymers in 1968-69 were- valued at $2,114,178 and in 1969-70, $3,589,209. 
Information is not collected on this basis. 
, (8) and (9) Details are not available. 
I am not aware that men have been put off at the various mills to which the honourable member referred. However, I will certainly look into the matter to determine what is involved and the reasons for such dismissals. The last part of the honourable member's question related to the buying of Australian products. He asked whether I would give assistance to a campaign. I will certaintly give whatever assistance I can. When I returned from a recent trip to various countries I stated that if Australia was to maintain its high standard of living and its high rate of development it would have to become more dependent than ever on rapid industrial expansion. Industrial development in this country will depend upon our manufacturers being able to produce high quality products efficiently and meet the best of competition around the world. I would certainly like to be able to promote the Australian products which command the respect and the demand of Australian consumers despite competition from anywhere else in the world. 
The honourable member's question has been no doubt prompted by some of the speculation in the Press over the last week as to a Tariff Board report which is before the Government at the moment and advice that is possibly being given to the Government by a section of the Department of Trade and Industry, namely, the Office of Secondary Industry. I want to make it quite clear that any advice that is given to me by my Department will remain the property of the Government unless I authorise otherwise. I will neither deny nor confirm whether any advice or information has been given to me. But let me reiterate that the Government has said that it will give economic and efficient industries reasonable protection. We have a Tariff Board, an independent body that gives advice to the Government. However, the ultimate responsibility for whatever decisions arc taken lies with the Government. When the Tariff Board makes a report to the Government that report is analysed. One of the important authorities which analyses such reports is the Office of Secondary Industry. Its job is to foster and assist the development of Australian industries. It has to look at the adequacy or otherwise of the Tariff Board's reports and the probable effects of such reports on the community at large. The Tariff Board is obliged not only to give an economic judgment but also to take into account non-economic factors. We as politicians have a responsibility to weigh up all the factors involved. I sometimes hear people trying to blemish the Parliament or parliamentarians because political decisions are made. All I can say about that is that they do not know what they are talking about because politics is the management of public affairs. But somehow or other, because a political decision has to be made, they want to associate these things wilh party politics merely because- 
-The only people who have been trying to sack me since I have been here have been members of the Australian Labor Party and they have not succeeded. Apparently, because political judgments have to be made and because I happen to be in charge of the office of secondary industry, people are trying to smear me with making purely Country Party decisions. That is completely wrong. Any decision that I make will be in the best interests of this nation. 
From what I recall, additional arrangements were made for the balance of the Tasmanian crop. I think I answered a question asked by the honourable member last session on this aspect. I know of no special arrangements that have been made for apples and pears as a result of conference line discussions. Special arrangements were made for the transport of wool from Australia with the conference lines. Such wool was not subject to any freight increases this year. This was a great relief to those in the wool industry. One must give credit to  Sir William  Gunn for his persistence in trying to hold any freight increases on this commodity. However I am conscious of the difficult situation that the Tasmanian apple industry is facing and the rather grim prospects it has in view of the present arrangements that have been made between the United Kingdom and European countries regarding Britain's entry into the European Economic Community. I am conscious also of the transitional impact this will have on the Tasmanian industry. I know only too well the need to keep freight rates as low as possible for that industry. I can assure the honourable member that my Department, in conjunction with the Department of Shipping and Transport, will do whatever it can to get concessional rates. 
Australia's total exports to the United States of minerals and metals last year were worth about $110m. The new import surcharge will not apply to those imports which do not normally attract duty. Accordingly, our exports of iron ore, rutile, zircon, ilmenite, bauxite and alumina will continue to be exempt from duty. In other words, approx imately 80 per cent of our exports of minerals and metals to the United States will not be affected. The balance of our exports of minerals and metals to the United States, which are valued at about S23m, are dutiable and will be affected. 
It is very kind of the honourable member to offer me the authority to set up a ministry of decentralisation of industry. It is true that like other Government supporters I have made a number of speeches on the importance of decentralisation and trying to avoid over-centralisation of population in our capital cities. I believe there is a national need for attention to be given to both these matters at once. The problems of urban living are becoming great and a good deal of Government attention needs to be given to these problems so as to provide the essential services and amenities in urban areas and to relieve the pressures which now face these people and which affect the character of living in these areas. Likewise there is a need for greater recognition of the problem of providing employment and services in country areas. 
I have always stated that if there are to be any national projects and national programmes there has to be a national recognition of the problem. For these reasons I have been talking deliberately in metropolitan areas about the problems in the country and the need to give every type of assistance to hold the population there and not to add to their already accentuated difficulties. What have we done about it? First of all one has to recognise that most of the facilities for helping in the decentralisation of secondary industry lie within the jurisdiction of State governments. I can think of no better way of helping the States to do this than by trying to correct some of their financial difficulties. 
The decision of the Government during the past year to give the States a growth tax, to hand across the payroll tax, to ease some of the payroll tax difficulties of local government, is a major step forward in helping the States to accomplish something more in the area of decentralisation. The Government has done many things to try to keep people in the country areas. I suppose that the greatest efforts of government are related to the assistance we can give to primary industry. All of this assistance is of direct importance to decentralisation. The more people- we can keep on the farms the more people there will be in the country towns in the support industries and the service industries. The Government is very conscious of the need to do what it can to assist in solving this problem and it will continue to give assistance. 
There is a section of the Office of Secondary Industry which works on the question of seeing what assistance and advice can be given to industry in the way of necessary information to help it make decisions. We solicit the support of universities in Australia to carry out surveys and examinations of the relevant factors - the labour opportunities in the area, the suitable sites, the location of water, the service facilities, the cost of transport and the general disabilities that might be imposed upon it. The Government provides this information through the Office of Secondary Industry. The honourable member seems to bypass the real fact of the matter, that is, that the States have the constitutional authority in this area. The Commonwealth has no rights to interfere in the areas of local government or the many other services and facilities that are necessary for industry. We are prepared to sit alongside the States, consult with them, advise them and assist them when and where possible. There is a consultative committee which operates between the Commonwealth and the States. The members of that committee have been active. They have been working on preparing a report which I hope will be ready for examination by the Government some time. 
It is pretty hard to smile at times. Smiles are about all one can get in this place at times. It is true that the Government has announced that there will be a progressive review of tariffs. The objective of this review is to ensure that excessive or unnecessary duties are not being applied to goods, because they add to the costs of imports. However, I should not like it to be thought that only secondary goods get protection. The great bulk of rural industries in Australia have various devices, duties and other ways of protecting themselves against competition - sometimes unfair competition - from other countries. It should be, and it is, the objective of governments to keep tariff duties as low as possible so as to not to have pressure on costs and prices within a country but what we must aim at are reasonable levels of protection. If a country is to become industrialised and to have high standards of living there is a need for a degree of protection. That is why the Tariff Board examines levels of protection and makes recommendations to the Government. That will be the Government's continuing approach to tariff making in Australia. 
It is good to see this new-found interest in decentralisation, but it is a strange coincidence that it happens when there is to be a decentralisation conference in Canberra over the next 2 days. We are well aware of the interest honourable members opposite show when it is politically opportune. My Department is represented on a committee of Commonwealth and State officials which meets on the question of decentralisation. I cannot tell the honourable member when the committee last met but I know that the committee has been preparing reports and has been waiting on reports from universities which have been carrying out work in this field. As I said to a previous questioner, when the report is finished it will be examined by the Government. As to whether the Government has examined the reports of the 2 States which have had committees on decentralisation, I point out that it is not the function of this Government to examine those reports. However, I have seen those reports produced at Cabinet meetings and some of the information in them has been referred to and discussed. In regard to the last part of the question, which referred to my predecessor's statement that it would be the objective of the Australian Country Party to seek special assistance in providing certain facilities for country towns, that still remains the objective of the Country Party. 
by leave - During the Parliamentary recess I undertook a visit to most of the major trading nations of the world. The timing of the visit was most appropriate, as this year could prove a watershed for world trade, and certainly for Australian trade. Total world trade has expanded quite remarkably since the war. Under the auspices of International Monetary Fund and General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, there has been a diminution of barriers to imports and there has been an acceptance of the principle of multilateralism - that is, equal opportunity for all. The spectacular success has occurred in the field of industrial products with trade growing at 10 per cent a year. However, in the field of agriculture, the growth in trade has been relatively much slower and progress towards trade liberalisation almost negligible. In the circumstances, a nation like Australia, which in the late 1940s derived some 87 per cent of its export income from agricultural products, clearly had to adjust its trade. In this we have been successful. Agricultural products now represent only 52 per cent of our exports; manufactures have risen from less than 5 per cent in 1948-49 to 19 per cent now, and minerals have become a significant contributor to our exports. That is the pattern of the past. It would be unduly optimistic, in the light of my overseas experience, to believe that the future holds anything other than a continuing difficulty in increasing the share of agriculture in world trade and hence there is an increasing necessity for us to diversify. 
One of the major factors which will impinge upon our trade over the next few years is the decision by the United Kingdom to seek to enter the European Common Market. This is not of course the first occasion when Britain has sought entry. However, it is the first time that the stage has been reached where conditions of entry have been agreed between ' the Six and Britain. It remains for the British Parliament to make a decision whether or not to accept the terms negotiated. This decision ' should be made in October this year. The decision is an important one for Britain, for Europe and the whole world. A united Western Europe should bring stability to an area which historically has been the origin of most major world conflicts. All Western countries have acknowledged the value to the future peace and stability of the world if the vision of a unified Europe can be realised. The problem which Britain's entry causes for Australia arises principally from the fact that the EEC in the field of agriculture remains one of the most restrictive import markets in the world. Against this, Britain probably has been the largest free market for agriculture in the past, and it is the market to which most of Australia's food exports traditionally have been oriented. The future policies on the British market are therefore of critical importance to many Australian agricultural industries. Therefore, I regard my visit to Europe as particularly useful in a number of ways. 
I was able personally to become acquainted with my counterparts in the Governments of Britain and the EEC countries, especially those having direct responsibilities towards the negotiations for Britain to enter the EEC. I was able to find out at first hand just what had been agreed upon in the negotiations and what were the outstanding issues. I made certain that the Australian point of view on matters of vital interest to us was known to the parties to the negotiations. I was able to assess the significance for Australia of the terms that were likely to be agreed upon in the negotiations. Clearly, we must face the fact that the favoured position we have enjoyed for so long in the British market will disappear. 
We will face new barriers for our products, raising quite serious problems for some industries. We will need to review the favoured position we currently accord Britain in our market. These matters will bring about quite significant changes in our overseas trading pattern. 
As the honourable members who have followed the statements I made during the visit and upon my return will be aware,, there was one matter - a very important matter - which disappointed me greatly. This was the apparent lack of adequate arrangements to look after Australia's trade interests in Britain during the transitional period. Over the years Australia has made known to the British Government, the Governments of the Member States of the Community and to the Commission of the EEC. the problems that would arise for Australian trade interests if reasonable conditions of entry for Britain were not achieved. Australia did not claim - as New Zealand could - that irreparable damage could occur to the national economy. I emphasised the point that some continuing access to the British market was needed during the transitional period in order to enable the Australian industries concerned to have time to adjust to the new situation inherent in Britain becoming a member of the Common Market. 
In my talks with the British Government, I concentrated my representations on the lack of precise provisions for the phasingout over the transitional period .of the access provided for Australian exports to Britain by our Trade Agreement with Britain. When the Australian Government had previously informed the British Government of its concern about the effects of British entry on Australia, we had been told that Britain would seek in the negotiations, for Australia's benefit, the longest possible transitional period. For example,  Mr Rippon,  Britain's Ministerial negotiator, when in Canberra last September, after having had intense and concentrated consultations with the Australian Government, publicly stated at a speech to the National Press Club and I am quoting from the official release: 1 am well aware of how vital this matter is for some of your farmers in economic and human terms. I promise you that we shall treat it extremely carefully and seriously in close consultation wilh your Government. This is, when all is said and done, a matter of mutual concern. We have made it plain that we shall seek the longest possible transitional period in which to resolve these initial impact difficulties. It was therefore with some considerable dismay that in Europe I found that, during the negotiations in May, the British delegation accepted an arrangement which, while affording a transitional period for British agriculture and for raising food prices in Britain, faces Australia with the pospect of possible immediate exclusion from the British market for some of our traditional exports and harsh consequences for many others. Although problems for third countries are foreseen, no specific provision was made which would ensure any firm or predictable degree of access for Australia over the transitional period. 
Up till the May negotiations, we had been told that the British were seeking a phasing-in of what is known as the principle of community preference. This principle is inherent in the full application of the Community's common agricultural policy. It means that suppliers from the member states should be allowed to sell in each other's markets at prices lower than those possible for supplier's from third countries whose prices are held up to a threshold price level by the application of variable levies. This community preference is not a preference in the generally accepted sense of the word - for example, a tariff preference - because outside suppliers cannot overcome the disadvantage of the preference by lowering their prices. This would only mean an increase in the variable levies. 
However, after the meeting in May, we were told that as part of the negotiations the British had agreed that upon entry to the Community - generally regarded as being 1st January 1973 - they would adopt the mechanisms of the Common Agricultural Policy and would apply in full the principle of Community Preference. Furthermore, British quantitative import restrictions, which give some assurance of access for outside suppliers of some products, would be terminated from that date. 
This means that for products subject to the Common Agricultural Policy, Australian exports to Britain will face variable levies right from the beginning of the transitional period. Community suppliers will be able to undersell Austraiian pro ducts because of the operation of Community Preference. Quantitative restrictions which have assured access for Australian butter, cheese and apples will be abolished right from the beginning of the transitional period. The one exception is sugar, where Britain had already committed herself under the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement to continue as contracted until 31st December 1974. After that, Australian exports will be subject to transitional arrangements which have not yet been fully worked out. Britain's adoption of the CAP for sugar also has far-reaching implications of the International Sugar Agreement. 
For products which are to be subject to the Common External Tariff, rather than the CAP, the transitional period will provide some relief for Australian exports to Britain, but within 12 months of the operation of the transitional period, supplies of most of the products concerned originating from the members of the Community will receive a preference over outside suppliers. 
When I stressed the serious implications these provisions would have for Australia's exports of primary products, particularly for products like butter and sugar, the British pointed out that, in agreeing to the arrangements I have just mentioned, they had obtained from the Six an understanding in relation to a safeguard clause to be used in the event of a disruption or threat of disruption of the trade of third countries. This safeguard clause provides that, if circumstances arise during the transitional period in which significant volumes of trade risk serious disruption, the enlarged Community will take effective action to deal with the situation. I have been given to understand this to mean that the enlarged Community would so manage its complicated protective system as to avoid too big or too sharp reductions in the trade of third countries. 
The British Government asserts that the safeguard clause will be better from the point of view of protecting Australian trade interest during the transitional period than provisions for the gradual phasing-in of community preference together with a gradual phasing-out of quantitative restrictions. Honourable members will recall that whilst in London I referred publicly to the disappointment I had when I learnt of the terms that had been agreed upon in the negotiations. Australia was not party to the negotiations and there was little else to be done. I made strenuous efforts to see whether changes could be made and I also expressed grave concern that we were told of the change in the British negotiating position only after they had agreed to the terms so that we had no chance of influencing the course of the negotiations on this point. 
This must all be accepted as history. We must now look to the future. Trie safeguard clause is what we have to protect our interests. The Australian Government accepted in good faith the statements from the parties to the negotiations that the transitional period would provide for the gradual adjustment by third country suppliers like Australia to the full conditions of access implicit upon Britain joining the Community. Britain has negotiated with the Six the safeguard clause as the way of achieving this. From now on Australia will be taking all possible steps to ensure that if a situation of the kind envisaged by the safeguard clause is developing, the enlarged Community will take prompt and effective action to remedy the situation. 
In my discussions overseas about Britain and the EEC I also reiterated the point previously made that measures should be adopted to ensure that exports from the Territory of Papua New Guinea are not placed at a disadvantage relative to imports into the enlarged Communities from other developing countries receiving special treatment. I have already said that Australia could not claim, as New Zealand did, that her economy was dependent on continued access to the British market for one or two primary commodities. By hard perseverance with Britain and the Six, New Zealand was able to persuade Britain to negotiate arrangements for continued, but decreasing, access for dairy products into Britain during the transitional period at least. I think that it should be recognised by all concerned that Australia had decided not to take any action which would hamper the New Zealand Government in obtaining recognition of the very special need to safeguard New Zealand's trade interests. 
We recognised that the decision to join the European Economic Community is for Britain and the other parties to the negotiations to take. We have stressed that in negotiating the terms for British entry and afterwards, the members of the enlarged Community should see to it that the Community plays a full and responsible role in international trade matters consistent with its position of the world's largest trading entity. 
If and when the expanded EEC becomes a reality, it, together with those countries which are likely to be associated wilh it, will account for something like 40 per cent of the world trade, covering in all about 70 countries. This will be the most significant factor in the future of world trade which could operate in bringing about a new era. The responsibility is a heavy one, and as yet the EEC as such has shown no real signs of acknowledging that responsibility. Amongst the commissioners and staff of the EEC. and indeed amongst the governments of the Six, I did find an awakening recognition of the significance of the EEC for world trade and the fact that so far the EEC has created particular problems for trade in agricultural products. However, during the formative years the internal problems of constructing such a vast enterprise have tended to concentrate the attention of the countries on their own interna] problems. This means that despite the liberal outlook that individuals might have, the decision-making processes of the EEC have resulted so far in inward-looking decisions. It is important to the future of all world trade that, as time goes on, the liberal forces within the EEC make themselves felt more and more, resulting in the adoption by the expanded EEC of more outward-looking policies than in the past. 
In the United States I also found a concern for the future of world trade related to the policies of the EEC both in protection for agriculture and the spread of new preferential agreements. The other particular concern in the United States is with the protective policies of Japan. These reflect the continuing problems which the United States has been experiencing in its balance of payments which have led to the serious measures which were announced by the  President  this week. These measures, oh the trade side, included the imposition of a temporary import levy of 10 per cent on about half of United States imports: Happily for Australia, some of our major exports to the United States-*-beef, sugar, alumina, beach sands, totalling about - 70 per cent of our exports - are exempt from the levy. However, the measures will have a marked effect on the trade with the United States of other countries such as Japan, and Australia's exports of raw materials which are processed in Japan for re-export to the United States could be affected. 
The one pleasing feature of the United States measures is that they have been clearly announced as temporary, to be removed when the causes of the current problems disappear. It had been feared that the rising protectionist sentiment in the United States, which arose because of the pressures on the United States trade balance, might result in the erection of permanent barriers to trade. This would be a setback to the whole trading world. Since the war the United States has been a leader in all the moves towards freer trade. The obvious answer now to the increasing protectionist sentiment would be a major international move designed to remove the current causes of friction. However, until the immediate and pressing problems are overcome the United States Administration would not be prepared to undertake to seek from Congress a mandate for such a major international move. Indeed, the climate in the United States is such that it would be difficult for any Bill designed to free trade to succeed. 
While in the United States I explored the possibility of reopening the question of the United States wool duty which has so long been a thorn in the side of our own trade with the United States. Whilst I received a sympathetic hearing on the difficulties of the Australian wool industry and on the importance for us of some movement in the United States wool duty, I was given clearly to understand that in the current circumstances there was no prospect of legislative action designed to open the way for an agreement leading to the reduction of the wool duty. 
I have mentioned the problems which the United States Government feels with the protection used by Japan against its goods. Japan is our most important trading partner and it does maintain protective devices which restrict the imports also of  a  number of Australain commodities. Although Australia-Japan trade has been growing rapidly in recent years, our two 
Governments are agreed that there are prospects of further increasing that trade through co-operation and mutual consultation. Whilst in Japan I agreed with the Japanese Government to the establishment of a consultative committee dealing with economic matters, primarily trade, which will meet on a continuing basis and a: ministerial level to discuss the issues which arise between us. If we face the restriction on our markets in Europe following the entry of the United Kingdom into the EEC, we will need to place increasing reliance on our established ties with Japan, and we must attempt to ensure that this relationship is developed as much as possible. 
Whilst overseas I also attended a meeting of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development at which Australia was invited to become a member. At that meeting it was agreed to establish a high-level study group consisting of a small number of very experienced and skilled men to prepare a study on the whole future of world trade. The mere fact that this study group has been established is a recognition that the main trading nations of the world recognise the dangers of the current situation and show a determination to look towards finding solutions in the future. We would expect the study group to report its findings within a year or so and this should be a blueprint towards the future development of international trading relations. It is therefore difficult now to ascertain where world trade policies will lead us in  th2  future. One thing is clear. If the United Kingdom join the EEC then Australia will be on its own. We will no longer have our special trade relationship with the United Kingdom which has proved so valuable to us since the 1930s. I am sure that this country can stand on its own feet. 
There is a clear prospect of disruption to some of our great primary industries through the complete or partial closure of their traditional market. This prospect gives us renewed incentives to continue  to  look elsewhere to develop markets in a world where consumption is expanding, and challenges us to find new ways of dealing with old problems. We may have to look to structural readjustment in some of our industries - a task which requires the joint effort of governments and the industries concerned. 1 am acutely conscious that such adjustments involve people - families and communities which have contributed their share to Australia's prosperity and wellbeing for many years. lt may be seen as part of the process of change which in the last quarter )f a century this country has been able to accommodate itself to iri such a way that people - individuals - have not had to carry the burden alone. If the reshaping of Europe forces us to that kind of adjustment, it also holds out to us prospects for prosperity. 
Since the EEC came into existence its trade with the rest of the world has grown, though not always in the area which we would have preferred; but it has grown nevertheless. Imports into the EEC have grown at the average annual rate of 9 per cent. The British, whose market is still enormous, argue that when they and the other applicants join the Community, their influence will be felt by an acceleration of growth of the total Community and and that this in turn will have a stimulating effect on world trade. 
Though, as I have said, I have reservations about the effect of this union on world agricultural exports, and hence on ours, if the British are right then we as one of the world's big traders must be among the biggest beneficiaries. We have the raw materials which that vast market accounting for something like 40 per cent of world trade will be looking for. Moreover, if we can sell over $120m worth of manufactures on a straight competitive basis in a vast manufacturing country like the United States- as we did in 1969-70- and nearly $800m to all world markets, we should not be pessimistic about our ability to be competitive also in Europe. 
Because the enlarged Community will account for about 40 per cent of world trade, we must come to trading terms with this Community. I am confident that we can find ways of doing so even if it has to be in a somewhat different range of products from those which traditionally we have sold to Britain. Whilst I do not attempt to hide the fact that we will have to face increased barriers to trade in these products and make consequential adjustments, I am not letting that fact blind me to the possibilities that exist for Australia in the new European situation. Whilst Australia has so far not got much for its relentless pressure over the last 20 years for liberalisation of agricultural trade, it may well be that a change of the kind that is about to occur was needed to get the results in international organisations, like the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and OECD, which have been eluding us for the last decade or more. I present the following paper: 
Australian Trade - Ministerial statement,  19th  August 197]. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
I will try to answer at least some of the questions asked by the honourable member. First of all, depressed prices certainly are being paid for mutton, especially in Western Australia. The price in Western Australia seems to be lc or 2c per lb below what is being paid in the eastern States. This is no doubt due to an over-supply situation and an inadequacy of abattoirs in that State to handle the kill. I know that Midland Junction is to double ils killing capacity very shortly. As the honourable member would know probably better than I, there are plans to establish a killing works at Katanning. As far as obtaining funds for this purpose is concerned, if a proprietary company were to seek funds through the Commonwealth Development Bank its circumstances would be examined in the same light as would the circumstances of any other industrial activity. So there is a possibility that funds could be obtained from that direction. 
The honourable member mentioned the prospects for mutton exports. We have had a very good year. In fact, exports were only a few tons short of the record set in the previous year. Taking into consideration that most of our works were deregistered throughout last year so far as exports to the United States of America are concerned, it was quite an outstanding performance. Most of these works have now been re-registered and are exporting large quantities to the United States of America. I think our total exports were about 132,000 tons. The principal market opportunities for the forthcoming year would seem to be the United Kingdom, Greece, Canada, the United States of America and Japan. I believe that we will make substantially greater sales this coming year than we have in the past. The price received for mutton carcasses is about 19c per lb and that for mutton cuts is about 27c per lb. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I have. The honourable member for Dawson says that I have made inaccurate statements. If he also reads that speech he will see the actual words he used in the ABC programme 'This Day Tonight' in which he criticised his own Party in almost a hysterical manner which was of little service to his Party. 
We have listened to the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  with a great deal of interest, but also with a degree of sadness because he persisted in trying to make a political issue of wheat sales to the People's Republic of China. I am sure that every responsible member of the Australian Wheat Board and members of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, and informed people in the Australian wheat industry must listen in fear when they hear the Australian Labor Party continue its policy of trying to make it politically impossible for Australia to make a wheat sale to the People's Republic of China. That is what members of the Australian Labor Party have done up to date. If there has been a loss of wheat sales as suggested by the honourable member for Dawson, it is because politics has been introduced into that field. 
Earlier this year, the honourable member for Dawson moved for a debate on a matter of public importance. 1 was not here at the time. I would have found it a most interesting debate because the motion was directed against me. It was a rather extraordinary exercise because at that time honourable members opposite said that I was to blame for the loss of a sale to China because of statements I had made on a television programme in Melbourne. They said that wheat sales were lost to China because T made on that programme statements that were offensive to the Chinese. The honourable member for Dawson had the audacity to put before this House that that was the reason for the loss of sales to China. However, today he apparently is concerned that his actions might have been the cause of the loss of sales to China and he is trying to square off with Australian wheat growers. Let him see whether he can, because he has an awful lot to answer for. Even  Mr Price,  the  President  of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, has publicly asked politicians to keep quiet on the subject and to keep out of the field. He has said: 'Let us get on with our business of selling wheat.' 
I move: 
That the Bill be  now read  a  second  time. This Bill was foreshadowed in my statement to the House on 28th April 1971, when I said that the Government had considered a suggestion by a number of leading industry associations that there would be advantage in having the simpler types of tariff cases dealt with by one member of the Tariff Board so that decisions on them could be reached more quickly. The cases concerned are those which are generally referred to as non-tariff revision cases. I mentioned then that the Government had decided there would be advantage in the following matters being handled in this way - customs by-laws, both admissions under by-law and certain cases of cancellation of by-laws; tariff classification; dumping; the addition of goods to the New Zealand-Australia free trade area; and questions relating to the granting of entry of products from developing countries. I said that it was proposed to introduce amendments to the Tariff Board Act to allow for the addition of a ninth member to the Board and to authorise the  Chairman  of the Board to appoint single member boards to inquire into the types of cases mentioned. This is not possible under the present Act. This Bill gives effect to the amendments I talked about on that occasion. The Bill will permit the expansion of the membership of the Tariff Board from eight to nine, and will give the  Chairman  authority to appoint single member divisions of the Board to inquire into and report on references from the Ministers concerned in certain types of cases. In addition the Bill provides for certain changes of an administrative nature. 
The Government's purpose in making the proposed changes is to achieve maximum expenditure in the Tariff Board's handling of non-tariff revision matters referred to it, while, at the same time, enhancing its general work capacity. Full discussions in relation to the proposed changes were held with the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board. The average time now being taken between the sending of a ministerial reference to the Tariff Board and the receipt of a report from the Board for references of all types is almost 2 years. Generally, non-tariff revision cases are considerably less complex and can be dealt with more expeditiously than those involving tariff revision. References involving the admission of goods under by-law are expected to constitute the major workload, and it is important to the Government and the companies concerned that early reports be received on these references because goods are often in transit when applications for by-law admission are made and major investment decisions may be involved. It is expected that the introduction of the one-member Board system should permit reports in cases of this type - that is, questions of the admission of goods under by-law - being made within 3 months of a reference to the Board. 
The new member is being appointed primarily to enable the expeditious handling of non-tariff revision cases. He will also be available, should the  Chairman  so wish, to assist in the Board's work generally. The  Chairman  may appoint any member of the Board to constitute a single-member Division of the Board for non-tariff revision inquiries. This arrangement will provide the  Chairman  with maximum flexibility in undertaking the Board's overall work programme. Under the proposed arrangements, where the appropriate Minister, either the Minister for Customs and Excise or the Minister for Trade and Industry, refers to the Board a non-tariff revision matter of the types concerned, he may direct that the inquiry and report may be made by a Division of the Board constituted by a single member. The normal expectation is that it shall be so dealt with. However, there may be occasions where it is more appropriate for the matter to be handled by a normal Division of the Tariff Board. For example, it often happens that separate references are made to the Board on the same products for inquiries into dumping and tariff review. In such circumstances it may be convenient for the inquiries on both matters to be dealt with concurrently, avoiding duplication of evidence and public hearings, thus enabling the presentation of an earlier report on the dumping question than if it were handled separately. To enable such a procedure in appropriate cases the  Chairman  is provided with a discretion to determine the allocation of non-tariff revision cases as appropriate between single-member Divisions of the Board and normal Divisions of the Board. 
There may also be non-tariff revision cases where the issues are of such significance that consideration by a singlemember Division of the Board would not be appropriate. The cancellation of by-laws in areas of high tariffs that have not been looked at by the Board for many years is one example. In those cases consideration of whether the substantive duties are appropriate could be involved. Other examples are complex inquiries under the provisions of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. Important inquiries such as these would not bc considered appropriate for a single-member Division of the Board. Inquiries conducted by singlemember Divisions of the Board will be subject to the same procedural arrangements as those which apply to normal tariff revision inquiries. That is to say they will be held in public, evidence will be taken on oath and reasonable notice of such inquiries will be given in the Gazette and the Press. 
The Bill also contains a number of administrative changes which have awaited a suitable opportunity for inclusion in the Tariff Board Act. Provision is being made for a  Deputy Chairman  to be appointed as Acting  Chairman  of the Board in the absence of the  Chairman.  This corrects an existing anomaly. Previously, a  Deputy Chairman  was required to perform all the functions of the  Chairman  in the latter's absence but no provision existed whereby he could be formally appointed as Acting  Chairman.  Provision is also being made to permit the retirement of a member by the Governor-General with the consent of the member, and for resignation of a member upon acceptance by the Governor-General of his resignation. In the present Act the only provision relating to the termination of an appointment provides for suspension by the Governor-General of a member for misbehaviour or incapacity. A statement of the grounds of suspension must be laid before both Houses of Parliament and the suspension must be removed unless each House passes an address praying for the member's removal on the grounds of proved misbehaviour or incapacity. The procedures are considered to be inappropriate in the cases of enforced retirement, for example because of invalidity, or where a member wishes to resign for personal reasons. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
I think there are 2 different issues - the subvention of the wool industry to help maintain the solvency of those in it and any troubles that the Australian woollen textile industry might have as a result of the import of cheap man-made fibres. As the honourable member may be aware, we have referred the matter of imported man-made fabrics to the Special Advisory Authority for consideration. If protection is given here it could have some slight beneficial effect on the Australian wool industry but I think it would be small. This reference to the Special Advisory Authority arose from the fact that the Australian textile industry has for some time been endeavouring to negotiate a voluntary arrangement with the Japanese textile industry. However, because of the general international turmoil that prevails with textiles the Japanese were unwilling to come to any agreement with the Australian industry to impose voluntary restraint upon themselves. As the industry was able to put up a bona fide case that threats were being made and damage was being caused to the Australian industry I referred the matter to the Special Advisory Authority. But I do not think this would help the wool industry. I am well conscious of the very serious troubles it is in. Giving added protection to the manmade fibres being imported would not necessarily help the wool industry because there is a man-made fibre industry in Australia and by giving protection we would assist the Australian man-made fibres industry, so the competition would still remain. We did look very closely into ways and means of helping the wool industry earlier this year, but my Department came to the conclusion that this was not the right solution to its problems. 
WhatI do remember sayi ng the other day is that the Government takes a great interest in tourist development as a means of earning foreign exchange for this country. But in the course of speaking on this particular aspect  1  said it would be unwise for the Government at this moment to be promoting the building of large hotels when we have an inflationary problem in this country and the demands which are bringing about that inflation seem to be very much in the nonresidential building area as well as in the mining area. If we are going to try to restrain the pressures that exist in the nonresidential area that is, through the building of offices, hotels and other large structures then some effort has to be made to reduce expenditure there. If at this particular moment one were to build large hotels involving the use of many millions of dollars then one would only be aggravating  a  very serious problem and, I believe, one of the most serious problems facing the. country today. 
 I move: 
That the Bil! be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes amendment of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act to give effect to the decision of the Government, announced in the Budget Speech, that a new export financing facility, known as buyers' credit, would be introduced for the assistance of Australian exports of capital goods. In addition, the Bill proposes to broaden the existing insurance and guarantee provisions of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act by giving the Corporation the authority to enter into re-insurance arrangements with its counterpart organisation in other countries, where this would facilitate Australian exports. There are also in the Bill some proposed amendments of the housekeeping nature. They are mainly drafting changes consequent to earlier amendments of the EPIC Act. 
Honourable members will know that the Export Payments Insurance Corporation was established by this Government in 1956 to provide insurance for exporters against the risk of non-payment by overseas buyers. Since then, the range of the Corporation's facilities has been progressively extended and the operation of the facilities improved to take account of changes in the pattern of Australian production and exports, in the direction of our exports, and in the nature of the competition we have to contend with in overseas markets. These successive amendments of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act give clear evidence of the Government's determination to keep abreast of exporters' requirements in the field of export payments insurance and associated facilities. And so it is with the amendments proposed in this Bill. They stem from 2 main factors. In the first place, Australia, over recent years, has developed a broadly based capacity for the production and export of capital goods which are frequently traded internationally on long term credit. The second factor is that, with competition in world trading at such a high pitch, the nature of the credit arrangements exporters can offer has assumed a special significance. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Ten references convening the vast bulk of those items in Chapter 84 of the Tariff which had not recently been reviewed by the Board were sent to the Tariff Board on 20th May 1971. These references were sent to begin the systematic review. They will be followed in due course by references in the area of Manufactures of Metal. These 2 areas of the Tariff were those nominated by the Board as the first to be reviewed. It is not possible to indicate when the systematic review will be completed. The Tariff Board pointed out in its 1969-70 Annual Report that 'the rate at which a systematic review of protection can proceed depends on the nature and extent of other references sent to the Board, the resources available to it, and the efficiency with which those resources are used'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An interdepartmental committee has been established to review the operation of the present Act and to report, as soon as possible, on the question of future incentives for Australian industrial research and development. The present incentives provided under the Industrial Research and 
Development Grants Act of 1967 expire on 30 June 1972. 
The review is concerned in particular with the contribution which industrial research and development activities can make to the efficient development of Australian manufacturing and mining industries. Social aspects arising directly out of the manufacturing process itself, such as environmental pollution, are also being encompassed by the review. 
 Mr Speaker,  I ask leave of the House to make a statement in connection with these reports. 
 Mr Speaker,  I present the reports by the Tariff Board on the following subjects: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) A proposal for re-organisation of the Office of Secondary Industry is currently under consideration. The proposal envisages the recruitment of additional staff. 
The proposed re-organisation 'will be subjected to the same scrutiny as . other proposals affecting departmental establishments, to ensure that it is consistent with the Government's policy of staffing restraint in the Public Service. 
Yes. Additional positions were recently created on the Tariff Board's establishment, and the Board is recruiting staff for the positions. 
The Tariff Board and the Office of Secondary Industry perform different functions, though some of the functions are complementary. The staff needs- of each organisation will be dealt with on their individual merits. 
I have not seen the week-end Press article, but I could well imagine my former leader making such a statement. He had moved out of dairying and wool growing into cattle raising in which he had a very great interest. But he also had pretty sound judgments as to what was the soundest form of farming that he should undertake on his property. That was a personal judgment. He was not pronouncing any County Party policy on diversification away from wool growing. Indeed, anybody who could have foreseen 8 years ago what has happened to the wool industry in the last 12 months or 18 months would be a miracle man. It is all right for the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition with hindsight to say that the Government should be doing this or that. But nobody could foresee the disastrous and serious circumstances that the wool industry is in today. I really do not think that the honourable member's question has a great deal of substance to it. My predecessor had every right to make decisions which were in his own personal interests. 
A considerable quantity of Australian meat is on the water, although 1 believe that actual exports during the past week have tended to taper off mainly because of the uncertainty of a strike in the United States ports on the Gulf of Mexico and in the United States ports bordering the Atlantic Ocean. For the past two or three months the Australian Meat Board has been encouraging exporters to export as much meat as possible so that we can fill our quota. The threat of a strike on both the West Coast and the East Coast of the United States could prevent us from doing that. A strike of longshoremen on the West Coast has been in progress since about the beginning of July, and it was only recently that negotiations commenced to try to settle it. We are hopeful that the strike might end shortly. But at the present time our meat is going to the ports on the East Coast of the United States. The present contract expires on 30th September, and unless a settlement is reached the strike could spread which then would prevent any further meat shipments to the United States. If there is meat on the water it could be diverted into Canadian ports, such as Halifax or St Johns, in the same way as we have diverted to Vancouver some shipments to the West Coast of the United States. But I think that the situation is well under control. We will try to see that we fill our quota and not have any meat which does not get on to the market. 
I do not think the honourable member can speak for all farmers in Australia. Nearly every industry in Australia, with the possible exception of the wool industry, does get the benefit of some form of protection. Some of our farming industries are very heavily dependent on this protection. I have been conscious that whenever agricultural commodities have been imported into this country, even in the most minute quantities, all hell has broken loose with the cry that something should be done about it. I ask the honourable member not to generalise and say that all farmers want all tariffs reduced. It is an objective of this Government to try to keep costs as low as possible. I think we all agree that protection for industry does tend to increase cost pressures although I do not accept that tariffs are a device that can be switched on or off and varied according to the economic tempo. 
It should be the objective of any government to ensure that tariffs are not excessive and that they are invoked only to sustain efficient industries. It is true that the Government, as was stated yesterday in this House, has agreed to a continuation of temporary protection for woven and knitted shirts and the outer garments industry for a further 18 months. After that period the Tariff Board's report will be implemented following in the meantime negotiation with Asian countries for a voluntary restraint against their cheap textiles coming into this country. This is not an unusual procedure for a developed country to adopt. At least 11 or 12 developed countries have been able to come to arrangements with Asian countries so as to maintain a reasonably efficient industry within their own borders and still be able to increase imports in the future. In other words, it is more or less a method of stabilising the industry at its present level and the benefit of any growth that is to take place will go to those overseas countries. We are more or less following an approach that has been adopted by most developed countries which have run into problems in this area. 
 The following is provided in answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) All goods which qualify as Australian produce enter Britain at preferential rates of duty. For some of these goods, however, the preferential and full rates of duty are the same so that no margin of preference is received. 
As Australian export statistics do not classify goods according to the tariff of recipient countries, 
British import statistics were examined to determine the value of British imports of Australian goods which received no margin of preference in 1970. Comparable British import data on a tariff item basis were not published for the other years requested. The results of the examination are shown in Table 1 below. 
This table does not include, however, any goods which might not have received the preferential treatment provided in the British Tariff. This could occur where the legal requirements governing the grant of preference were not fulfilled. 
All goods which qualify as British produce enter Australia at preferential rates of duty. Again, however, some of these imports receive no margin of preference. 
Table 2 below shows Australian import clearances of goods of British origin which received no margin of preference in 1965-66 and 1969-70. Unlike Table 1, the value of Australian import clearances shown in Table 2 includes those goods for which the Australian tariff provided a preference but which received non-preferential treatment. 
Comparable figures for the general categories of imports are not available for years prior to 1965-66 because a new Australian Customs Tariff, based on the Brussels Tariff Nomenclature, was introduced in that year. 
 If an industry is adversely affected or threatened by imports it submits a case to my Department for action to curb the rate of those imports. In other words, it requests that temporary action be taken through the Special Advisory Authority. A prima facie case first of all has to be made out before I am prepared to submit it to the SAA. If a case has been submitted, as has been mentioned by the honourable member, it would be in the process of being analysed at the moment. As soon as that is done a judgment will be made. I cannot say more than that at the moment. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Tariff Board report on the Australian shipbuilding industry was forwarded to me by the  Chairman  of the Board on 12th July 1971. 
The Government will release the report with the minimum of delay, consistent with a full and careful study of all aspects of the Board's findings. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In line with other Western countries, Australia operates controls to prevent the export of strategic materials to Communist countries, including the People's Republic of China. However it does not obstruct purchases made from Australia of items, such as certain metals, which are not on the list of strategic materials and are, therefore freely available to China from elsewhere. Naturally, the question of usage is taken into account in determining whether or not an item will be included in the strategic materials list. 
As with other normal commercial export transactions, there are no conditions imposed by Australia as to the disposal or use made of exports from Australia. 
Preliminary figures for the export of metals to China for 1970.71 are as follows: 
The honourable gentleman has the advantage of me in having read this article; I have not. It is true that the Government has made a decision relating to the knitted and woven shirt industries, 2 quite substantial industries in the Australian industrial scene. They employ something in the vicinity of 22,000 people and many of these industries are in country towns. I believe that 21 country towns have these types of industries, so the industries are of significance to the overall economy and especially to the economy of rural areas. The Tariff Board did examine this case. Temporary protection had been given in 1967 or 1968; a full examination had to take place. The Board recommended that the rates of duty should be progressively reduced over a period of 2 years. However, the Government has the final responsibility for whatever the level of tariffs might be and it examined the matter. The Government felt that some notice should be given to the industry before the Tariff Board recommendations were implemented but that in the meantime endeavours should be made by my Department to try to negotiate voluntary restraints with other countries. 
One of the problems of world trade today is coping with competition from the low wage countries. Indeed, every industrial and every highly developed country with a high standard of living has found this to be a major problem and all such countries are now approaching it by constraining their own industry and allowing a certain part of the demand of that country to be taken up by imports and for growth in demand to be allowed to these developing countries. However, to make a harsh and arbitrary decision while trying to relate economics and efficiencies to a country with a wage standard of maybe a quarter of our own is difficult and I think it is asking too much of any industry to judge its economics and efficiency on the basis of a comparison with industries in these countries. This is the problem that all the developed countries have had. I think the Government has approached this question in a very reasonable and sensible way by giving the industry notice while at the same time trying to constrain the rate at which imports are coming into the country. 
I would like to be able to say that I can arrange such a meeting, but at the moment most of the discussions have gone On at officials level. There is a report before us at the moment for consideration. I will certainly try to find an opportunity myself to meet the Western Australian Minister for Decentralisation and exchange points of view on a question which I believe is of national importance. That is how to get more industry into country areas. 
Imports of beef and veal into Japan are controlled by a global quota as well as by tariffs and an import levy. Japan recently announced its opening global quota for the year ending 30th March 1972 of 14,000 tons and if it follows normal procedure there will be a follow-up quota of the same amount resulting in an annual quota of 28,000 tons or 16 per cent more than the quota last year. This is certainly welcomed by Australia mainly because we have been supplying something like 80 per cent of Japan's global quota of beef and veal. I believe this performance may be improved with the new refrigerated container shipping facilities now operating between Australia and Japan. These facilities should enable large volumes of high quality chilled beef and veal to enter that market. 
The Japanese market offers enormous potential for Australia's beef industry. A slight increase in consumption per head of population in Japan means an enormous additional requirement for that country. The Japanese consume annually about 6 lb of beef per head compared with 90 lb per head in Australia. If there is a one lb increase in consumption per head in Japan the additional requirement would be 50,000 tons. We expect that with increased living standards in Japan and with the pressure for further liberalised trading relations there will be an increased availability for the export of Australian meat to that country. All in all the opportunities for Australian export of beef to Japan look reasonably encouraging. 
I think it is a somewhat negative attitude just to disregard Australian industry, the investment that has been put into it, the people who are employed by it and the communities that depend upon it without giving consideration to the international factors that apply, particularly in the field of textiles. There is a fermenting and tormenting situation in relation to international trade in textiles. All developed countries are finding it extremely difficult to maintain their  own  textile industries against those countries which have a very low wage structure. To protect their industries - not absolutely or completely but to give them reasonable protection - these countries have had to devise ways and means of introducing either quantitative restrictions or voluntary restrictions upon imports into their  countries. As 1 have mentioned in this House before, 11 developed countries have been able to negotiate arrangements with some of the countries the honourable member mentioned to restrain imports into their countries. 
In the case of cotton textiles there is an international cotton textile arrangement. Some countries have agreements with the low-wage producing countries in order to restrain the volume of cotton textiles coming from those countries. For instance, I believe that the United States of America has 57 agreements relating to cotton textiles with different countries so as to protect its own industry. Australia will try to negotiate arrangements with those countries which are affecting it by their low-priced textiles which are coming into this country. I have not mentioned the countries. The honourable gentlemen assumed which countries might be giving us trouble, and we think that some of these are the countries concerned. 
But the Government will not be cutting back on the amount of trade. Quantitative restrictions have already been operating in this area for the past 3 years, as a result of the temporary protection given by the Tariff Board's Special Advisory Authority. What we hope to do is negotiate voluntary restraints which will operate when the new Tariff Board recommendations are applied in 18 months time and allow those concerned growth on the Australian market, while at the same time being able to rationalise and reorganise our own textile industry so that at least the efficient sector of it can be maintained. 
It is true that there have been some substantial increases in freight rates to North America - a 25 per cent increase on meat and general cargo and a 15 per cent increase on wool. These increases have been negotiated with exporters who are obliged to agree to them by the beginning of September. If the exporters have not done so by then, they run the risk of a further penalty of 10 per cent on top of those increases. The most difficult question is what can be done about it. I am afraid I do not have the answer to that question. 
I have made it fairly clear on a number of occasions and, indeed, in this House that if there has been any political difficulty created around the selling of wheat by the Australian Wheat Board to the People's Republic of China, much of that difficulty has been created by the honourable member who has asked the question. I have stated that if a political problem exists, it is because of the general tempo that has been developed on the issue of wheat and politics over the last 6 months by the Labor Opposition in this House. I beg the honourable gentleman to remain a little quiet, a little patient and to cool down on this subject and give the Australian Wheat Board a chance of negotiating wheat sales with the People's Republic of China. But to say that politics are preventing trade with China is not correct. 
Australia has been extremely successful at the Canton Fair. Companies such as the Electrolytic Zinc Co of (A/asia) Ltd, Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and John Lysaght (Aust.) Ltd have been doing extremely well in selling different processed metal products. In fact, those companies have done better than their Canadian counterparts. However, it seems to be wheat with which we are having difficulty. It becomes pretty obvious that a political issue has been created around this problem. I am quite confident that, given a little patience and a little tolerance, the Wheat Board will be able to negotiate on sensible terms. If one looks closely at the Canadian contract which has been reported by Reuters, it will be seen that China has negotiated to buy 500,000 tons of wheat to be delivered over the next 3 months. Normally, when the Canadians have negotiated wheat sales, they have contracted for a period of 12 months and the quantity has been in the vicinity of 2 million to  2i  million tons of wheat. One can assume that there are reasons for China stipulating such a short period. China may think that it will have favourable wheat crops or it may be keeping its options open so that it will be able to buy from other countries in the meantime. 
I would hope that if the Labor Party is so concerned about political relations with China and with wanting to create goodwill, it might ease the tension that has been produced as a result of the proposed sale of Australian rams to China. The only country that has not been able to obtain rams from Australia has been the Peoples Republic of China which has been somewhat offended that, although its representatives have come here in good faith and have tried to purchase these rams, their endeavours have been blocked because of the policy of the Australian Labor Party and the Australian Council of Trade Unions. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act 1956-1971, I present the fifteenth annual report of the Corporation for the year ended 30th June 1971, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development gentlemen's agreement on whole milk powder was negotiated in 1960. It was designed to set a floor price for the international export of whole milk powder. The present minimum price for whole milk powder under this agreement is about $454 per ton. However, this should not be confused with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade working party's arrangement for skim milk powder, which was negotiated in 1969 and which fixed a floor price for skim milk powder of $227 a ton. However, I believe that the need to join this gentlemen's agreement is quite imperative. With the possible loss of our assured market to the United Kingdom, there is a greater need than ever to have orderly international marketing arrangements for dairy products, and we will certainly push ahead to try to achieve this. The Australian industry has been consulted about the possibility of joining this OECD gentlemen's agreement. I believe that it is near finality and that as soon as an understanding is reached we will institute measures in order to become a full member of this agreement. 
It is true that the appropriate committees of both the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United States Congress are reviewing the importation into America of certain commodities, one of which is sugar. There is some difference between the recommendations of those 2 committees. I am told that there is to be a joint sitting of the Senate and House of Representatives committees to finalise the matter. However, there is consistency between the reports of the 2 committees as far as Australia's position is concerned, and that is to maintain the existing level of about 200,000 tons of sugar to that market. Naturally we hope that this is where the eventual decision will lie. The American market  is  a very important market of the Australian sugar industry. We sell approximately 20 per cent of our total exports of sugar to that market 
Pursuant to Section 38 of the Industrial Research and Development Grants- Act 1967 I present the Fourth Annual Report of the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
Pursuant to section 18 of the Tariff Board Act 1921-1966, I present the annual report of the Tariff Board for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
The report is accompanied by an annexure which summarises the recommendations made by the Board and shows the action taken in respect of each of them. 
 The answer  to the  honourable member's question  is as  follows: 
Commonwealth Departments represented on the Commonwealth-States Officials Committee on Decentralisation were listed in answer to question No. 468 on 14th April 1970 (Hansard page 1109) namely: 
Yesterday I tabled the annual report of the Tariff Board. It contained a dissenting opinion on the practices and procedures concerning some of the activities of the Tariff Board. Those matters would relate very much to the question that has been asked of me. This matter has been referred to the AttorneyGeneral's Department for legal opinion, and until I have that legal opinion I would reserve any comment. 
I am aware that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has been doing work on plastic coats for sheep to protect their fleeces in difficult weather situations. However. I am not sure of the commercial value of this work or whether it has yet been proved that there is any advantage at all in this operation. I am not sure how recent tariff duties on plastic apply to the plastic sheeting referred to by the honourable member. However, I do know that the recommendations in the Tariff Board report recently tabled in Parliament did mean a reduction in duty in respect of quite a number of plastic items. There may not have been any reduction in duty in the raw chemical plastic materials area because it has not yet been reviewed by the Tariff Board, but it was suggested in the Tariff Board's report that when this area is reviewed, in association with a report on chemicals, possibly there might be a reduction in the duty on the raw materials. I do not know what significance the present duty on plastic materials has on this sheeting, but I do know that in the banana industry plastic sheeting has been used for a long time to protect bunches of bananas, and in my close association with the industry I have never heard the complaint that tariff duty on plastic materials was a significant factor. 
 The answer to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
and (2) The Department of Trade and Industry chairs an -interdepartmental committee set up to review the operation of the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act. Regarding the other matters for which information is sought, it is not the policy of this Government to provide details about those matters which concern advice to Ministers and arrangements between Ministers and their advisers. 
There are a number of f.o.b. ports in Australia at which common pricing policies do apply. I am not sure what the circumstances are in relation to the commodities that the Leader of the Opposition mentioned, but I will certainly find out for him. The actual pricing policy for steel is a matter for the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd to determine itself. I will find out for the honourable . gentleman and let him know whether the benefit in this respect is conferred on Townsviile. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There has been no irregularity in the appointment of the Department's advertising agencies. 
The recommendation of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts was that the basis of engagement of 2 of the Department's advertising agencies in Australia should be reviewed. The review has confirmed that the appointment procedures followed by the Department' comply with Treasury Regulation 52. 
It is understood that the Treasury is considering a possible amendment to Treasury Regulation 52. My Department will ensure that its practices conform to the requirements of any amendment of the Regulation and that the Department continues to obtain the best available advertising services for the. expenditure incurred. 
As Acting Minister for Immigration I supply the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Imports of apple pulp, cider and juice apples are not recorded separately in official statistics. It is not possible therefore to provide the detailed information required by the honourable member. However, fresh apples have been classified separately in import statistics since 1965-66 and over the period 1965-66 to end of June 1971, no imports were recorded. Although imports of cider are not recorded separately the attached table shows statistics of import clearances for the past 6 years of cider and perry containing more then 2 per cent of proof spirit. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) To my knowledge there have not been any contracts entered into by Australian exporters for the supply of processed fish to Asian markets which have not been honoured. However, there have, on occasions, been disputes about the non-fulfilment of some of the terms of the contracts concerning shipments of abalone. These have involved specific qualities of abalone and are peculiar to the abalone trade, e.g., size and number of pieces in the cans, and colour of the abalone. Disputes of this nature inevitably arise from time to time because, as yet, there are no internationally accepted standards which apply to trade in this particular commodity. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australian import clearances from developing countries at the preferential rates provided for under the legislation introduced in 1965 comprised the following percentages of total import clearances: 
When selecting a trade commissioner we do examine his various attributes. One of the important ones would be his general experience in other countries and his capacity to speak the language of the country to which he would be appointed. We encourage our commissioners to take courses in languages. We assist them in crash courses to try to familiarise them with the language of the country to which they might be posted. As to the actual number of people who can speak the language of the country to which they are posted I would have to find that out and let the honourable member know, but I fully appreciate the importance of our trade commissioners being able to converse in the native tongue of the country in which they are stationed because I believe this engenders greater confidence in relationships between them and the people. 
 The understanding between the Government and the Opposition is that this debate will finish at about 10.48 p.m. so I will take this opportunity to answer very briefly some of the points that have been raised during the Estimates debate. My colleague the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  would also like to speak for a minute or two. For the past 5 to 6 hours I have been listening to the debate on the estimates of the Department of Trade and Industry, the Department of Primary Industry and the Department of Customs and Excise. I would hardly think it was a debate on the Estimates, as very few honourable members have referred to appropriations or expenditure. Nevertheless there has been some very good discussion on aspects covering all 3 departments, mainly dealing with philosophic points of view or taking a distinct party political approach to some of these departments. 
lt is up to honourable members to speak to the Estimates if they want to, but if they deliberately bypass individual items in the Estimates, that is a matter for them. 1 do not think that any reform is needed. Honourable members may take advantage of the opportunity if they so wish. I would like to refer to one particular aspect that was brought up by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  dealing with the answer I gave last week to a question he asked of me which dealt with a minority or dissenting report of the Tariff Board. He stated that when I tabled the Tariff Board's report I should also have made a statement referring to the dissenting report. It is not the custom for the Minister automatically to make a statement when tabling Tariff Board reports. On occasions statements have been made. 
In this particular case I would like to have been able to make a statement answering the charges that had been made in the report. I had received the report about  a  week earlier and immeditely sent it to the Government Printer so as to have it ready to table in this Parliament as soon as it was possible to do so. At the same time as I 
20I6P/71-  R-  P6J 
received that report I immediately referred the dissenting report to the AttorneyGenera]  (Senator Greenwood)  to get legal opinion as to the validity of the complaint about the procedures and practices that were being carried out by the Tariff Board. The honourable member for Lang asked why I have not got an answer. I have not got an answer because the report is still before the Attorney-General's Department, which is preparing a legal opinion. As soon as that legal opinion comes to me I will make a statement in the Parliament so that honourable members will be fully informed of the situation. 
I would not like to have delayed the Tariff Board's report until I received that legal comment because I do not know when it is likely to come forward. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  was fair enough to make the comment after I tabled the report that he appreciated the early tabling of it, which was my objective. Some remarks were made also by the honourable member for Lang which I thought were a little unfair to some of the Tariff Board members. He drew an inference that some Tariff Board members would have signed the dissenting opinion but for the fact that they had done this or that. The honourable member's statement was based on either a rumour or a suggestion that this member or that member might have done something. I think that to make a statement like that is dangerous and quite unfair to members of the Tariff Board who do not have a chance to answer. All the facts do not show that this is so because 5 of the 8 members signed the Tariff Board report and 3 had dissenting opinions. Those members made their opinions quite clear. 
Some other rather wild remarks have been made. I suppose it is all part of the game. Honourable members said that the Tariff Board was trying to create unemployment, that it was trying to destroy some of the factories which were operating and that it had no real feeling for the development of industry. I think that these are somewhat exaggerated remarks. The Tariff Board is an independent authority which is asked to examine Australian industries and make recommendations to the Government as to the level of protection the Board believes should be given to an industry. It still remains the complete responsibility of the Government to make the final judgment as to what that level of protection will be. People do not have an automatic right to expect the Government to accept a Tariff Board report. During the day the debate has ranged fairly widely and freely regarding the pros and cons of the tariff and protection for Australian industry. I guess that such a debate will continue while we have such a system. But I believe that there is need for such a system in this country. I know of no other country which has a high standard of living which can afford not to have some form of protection for all its industries. 
A big issue in the late 1920s and the early 1930s was whether there ought to be protection for Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and the Australian sugar industry. Fortunately the leaders of those days were wise enough to protect both industries. As a result both of those industries have developed into great national industries giving employment and creating efficiencies which are the equal of anywhere else in the world. Today there is need for protection of industry and probably more so while the international currency crisis is going on and while there are uncertainties about trade because all sorts of unfair and devious practices will come into being. We find it ever so much more difficult for labour intensive industries to compete against the low wage countries. Therefore the situation has to be examined. Anyone who says that we do not want secondary industry in this country really does not understand or appreciate what such industry means to this nation. We have 3 basic wealth producing industries - primary industry, mining industry and the manufacturing industry. By far the biggest basic wealth producing industry today is the manufacturing industry which is responsible for 28 per cent of our gross national product. Within that figure of 28 per cent came most of our teritary industry. It is the manufacturing industry which is responsible for the great bulk of our employment and which has enabled us to maintain our living standards. We do not want excessive protection for industry. I think we all agree on that matter. 
The only way we can have an honest examination of an industry is by the Tariff Board being given as much aid as possible to do its job, doing its job and then by making a recommendation to the Government. All things being equal I think that over the years the Tariff Board has done a reasonably good job. But in a world of change such as we have today one of the great difficulties is for the Tariff Board to be up to date with the rate of protection. The Board should be able to carry out necessary reviews within a sufficient period of time so that there is no uncertainty within industry and so that it can make the capita] investment that is required. Certain people want to be somewhat erudite and to propound theories on how changes ought to be brought about, but that is not easy. In fact, it is extremely difficult. 
People have said that the Tariff Board does not do a good job; that it should be altered; that there should not be so much protection as there is today. Certainly there have been dissenting points of view within the Australian Labor Party as there have been in the Governmentparties today in regard to this question, and there always will be. 1 think that all things being equal, as I said a moment ago, the Tariff Board has not done too bad a job. 
I am not sure which emissaries you are referring to. I am afraid that I have no- 
I would like to take this opportunity to correct a slight error I made last Thursday night when the estimates for the Department of Trade and Industry, the Department of Primary Industry and the Department of Customs and Excise were being debated. In a brief reply which I gave I mentioned that there was a dissenting report of the Tariff Board and that I had received the report about a week earlier and immediately sent it to the Government Printer so as to have it ready to table in the Parliament as soon as possible. I would not normally worry about this but one of the newspapers picked up the point that I had received it only a week before. What I had meant to say was that I had received it only a few weeks before. The actual facts are that the Tariff Board's annual report was received by me on 30th August 1971 and forwarded to the Government Printer on 31st August 1971. I referred it to the Attorney-General's Department on 1st September 1971 for an opinion. Copies of the bulk annual report were received on 28th September 1971. 
I need only about one second in which to finish, if the honourable member does not mind. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! No exception was taken by the honourable member in charge of the Opposition side. The Minister did speak to me about this. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- It is a personal explanation. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- He is making a personal explanation with the permission of the Chair, which is quite in order. 
Certainly had I thought it was going to cause any inconvenience or have any political content  1  would have discussed it with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I conferred with the Chair. My final remark is that I tabled the annual report of the Tariff Board the day after receiving them. I just wanted to get on record the actual dates because there seems to have been some confusion. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. APPROPRIATION BILL (No.  1) 1971-72 
The Australian Meat Board did sign a contract on behalf of exporters with the Russian importing authority for 58,000 tons of meat this year. That contract was fulfilled in August. The contract consisted of about 33,000 tons of mutton carcasses and the balance in beef quarters. It was worth about $30m altogether. It was the second contract that the Meat Board was able to negotiate with the Soviet Union. Last year the contract was for the supply of a total of about 33,000 tons of meat. As a result of these contracts Russia has grown into a very important market for Australian meat. It is now our second largest market for mutton and our fourth largest market for total meat exports. It is hopeful that we can continue this trade and that there will be another contract for 1972. 
There has been quite a lot of conjecture in the Press about a dissenting report from the Tariff Board. I do not know whether there is any campaign but people are certainly allowed to have different points of view. I have also heard a lot of people defending the Tariff Board, as I did the other night in this House by saying that I believe that, generally speaking, it does a very good job. But I do not want to enter into this issue of the dissenting report. I have mentioned before in the House that some legal questions are involved because the dissenting report says the practice is contrary to the Tariff Board Act, but until I have a decision from the Attorney-General as to whether or not it is legal I refuse to make any comment. It is true that my Department, as do many other government departments, has outside consultants helping it in making recommendations and giving advice to the Government, but whether it is possible to do this within the terms of the Tariff Board Act will depend very much on the verdict of the AttorneyGeneral's Department. 
What normally happens if an industry can show that it is being harmed by or is under threat from imports is that the matter is then referred to the Special Advisory Authority for tem porary protection, and it is the responsibility of the Special Advisory Authority to report back to the Government within 30 days. But once having received the report and temporary duties having been put on, if a case has been proved, it goes before the Tariff Board for full examination. The time which it takes the Tariff Board to make a recommendation to the Government depends upon the complexities within an industry, but by doing it this way we get a fair and just assessment of the level of protection that is needed for efficient and economic production of goods in Australia. 
Last week there was a meeting between exporters and the Australian Meat Board to determine what would be the amount of exports to the American market for this year. Because of several factors - a big one has been the dock strike in America - we have been running behind schedule with our exports to that country. I think that up to that date we had about another 40,000 tons to export to the United States. There is meat on the water. Just what the final figure will be I cannot say at the moment, but as soon as we have information on this we intend letting the American administration know what the shortfall might be so that we will maini'uU its confidence and so that when we commence negotiations for next year we will certainly be able to hold the quota that we have this year or, I believe, get an extension of it. As I mentioned, the factors affecting our exports were, firstly, the dock strike, which has reacted adversely against our exports and about which we could do nothing and, secondly, the good seasons that have prevailed in some parts of Australia, where there has been a tendency to hold stock back and to breed up numbers. There is quite an increase in stock numbers in Australia and our potential to export more in the future is great. So I think that the Americans ought to realise that, although there has been some temporary slackening of our exports to America it has not been altogether our fault and it is no indication of what the long-term tendency will be. 
I cannot give the honourable member the time when the report was started. It has certainly been a- 
I cannot give the date but it certainly has been a considerable time. I received the report on 12th July and it has been under study by Commonwealth departments and, shortly, an interdepartmental committee will be making recommendations to the Government to examine its action as a result of this report. But I am not here to canvass any of the recommendations that the Tariff Board has made, although I have noticed quite a bit of speculation in the Press as to what might be in that report. All I can say about this speculation is that much of it is inaccurate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Government policy is to accord reasonable protection against import competition !o industries, whether primary or secondary, which, after a full public inquiry and report by the Tariff Board are judged to be economic and efficient. 
lt would be contrary to this policy to reduce protective rates of duty without a prior inquiry and report by the Tariff Board. The Government is concerned that protective duties should be no higher than necessary to accord reasonable protection to economic and efficient industries and has initiated a progressive review of the Tariff by the Tariff Board. This review has started with the machinery section of the Tariff, to be followed in due course by references in the area of manufactures of metal. This sequence of reviews is as recommended by the Tariff Board. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I have not been able to identify any committee which has been set up to inquire into the textile industry in Australia. On the 7th September, however, I tabled Tariff Board reports dealing with the textile industry. These concerned woven shirts and knitted shirts and outergarments. When tabling the reports I made a statement in Parliament explaining the decisions the Government had made on tbe reports. 
 Mr Acting Speaker,  I wish to inform the House that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is leaving Australia today to visit the United States and Britain for discussions with  President  Nixon and  Mr Heath  on matters of mutual concern.  Mr McMahon  is expected to return to Australia in the middle of November. During his absence I shall be Acting Prime Minister. 
I think this is a very shabby question and it is not the sort of question that one would expect in this House when the Prime Minister is leaving on what I think is one of the most important prime ministerial trips ever made from this country. This trip is made at a time of great decision making all around the world. I believe it is an honour, firstly, that Australia should have been invited to have its Prime Minister go to Washington for personal and private discussions with the  President  of the United States prior to the President's visit to Peking and Moscow. I believe it is essential that the  President  and our Prime Minister should have the closest possible relations and a warm understanding of their mutual approach to international problems. At a time when the People's Republic of China has now been accepted into the United Nations there will be much thinking to be done. A time when Britain is about to make a decision on whether she will enter the European Economic Community is certainly a time when our Prime Minister ought to be having discussions with the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. I would hope that during the time the Prime Minister is overseas he will have the wholehearted support of the Australian people in wishing him well in looking after Australia's interests both now and in the future. 
I recall that the Minister for the Interior was asked this question last week and that he said he would refer it to the Attorney-General. I do not know what has come out of that reference, but T do know that approval has been given for Australians to purchase these shares Exchange control approval has been given. So anybody wanting to buy these shares, which will be floated in America, may do so. Previously I expressed great disappointment that Australians might be restricted from participating in the float of this company, but this exchange approval will enable interested people to be able to do so. It is somewhat in error to say that large portions of northern Australia are being sold. The properties in the Northern Territory are leasehold properties. Some of the leases have SO years to run and some have shorter terms. 
Of the 220 pastoral properties in the Northern Territory 45 have some overseas content in their ownership. What one must recognise is that 74 per cent of them are held by Australians. Of the other 26 per cent some have a foreign content in their ownership. Seventeen per cent of them are owned wholly by overseas people. Of that 17 per cent 10 per cent are held by British interests, 6.3 per cent by American interests and 1.2 per cent by Asian interests. I do not think any of us welcome seeing Australian companies or land being sold to overseas interests. I certainly would not want to see the practice encouraged. I would much rather see Australians holding as much Australian land as possible. If one happens to visit the Northern Territory one will find that the issue is not the emotional one that we hear so much about in southern parts of Australia. Indeed, the people of northern Australia have some experience of what foreign capital has done. Many of the pastoral properties in the Northern Territory are in dire need of capital to develop them fully. Where foreign money has come in it has helped to develop these properties and has given the progress that has been wanting there for many years. The people in the Northern Territory recognise this and appreciate it. Many of the overseas personnel, both British and American, who have come there have become extremely good citizens. Indeed, they have become Australian citizens after a period of time. 
The right honourable member for Melbourne is correct when he said that the recent census showed an imbalance in Western Australia and that conditions were such as would enable a redistribution to take place there. However it is not normal for there to be a complete redistribution of Federal electorates because of an imbalance in one State. Generally when an imbalance appears in a number of States after a period of years a redistribution is carried out. I should think that there is no likelihood of a redistribution being undertaken before any possible election, the present timing of the election being about the end of next year. To carry out a redistribution is a lengthy process requiring at least 1 8 months notice for a Government to be able to do it satisfactorily. In those circumstances it is most unlikely that the Government would contemplate a redistribution. 
I am not aware of any comments or statements made by earlier Prime Ministers or the Minister for the Interior in relation to this matter. I would have thought that the honourable member would be satisfied with having one seat, rather than having two. Even though the Canberra population is increasing rapidly, I doubt whether it has yet reached the numbers which would justify a second seat for the A.C.T. particularly in view of the size of some other electorates. No doubt the time will come when more than one seat will be necessary in the Australian Capital Territory but I do not believe that time has yet arrived and 1 do not think that this would be a matter for consideration until we are looking at the question of perhaps a bigger Parliament and more members of the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The table below lists references, by subject and date, to the Tariff Board, on which public hearings were not complete, as at 11th October, 1971. Included in the table and identified by the term (D&amp;S), are references made by the Minister for Customs and Excise under the Customs Tariff (Dumping and Subsidies) Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The table below lists matters under reference to the Tariff Board on which the Board had, as at 11th October 1971, completed public hearings, but has not yet forwarded a report. References by the Minister for Customs and Excise under the Customs Tariff (Dumping and Subsidies) Act are included and identified by the term (D &amp; S). 
Tariff Boards: Reports to be Tabled (Question No. 3931) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The table below lists reports which as at 11th October 1971, had been signed by the Tariff Board and received either by myself as Minister for Trade and Industry or, being reports on references under the Customs Tariff (Dumping and Subsidies) Act, by the Minister for Customs and Excise. The latter are identified in the table by the term (D. &amp; S.). 
The table does not, however, include any report which may have been signed by the Board but not received by the appropriate Minister as at 11th October 1971. 
-The Prime Minister previously answered a question in the House on this matter and said that the Australian Government has been putting pressure on the Pakistan Government to try to come to terms with the Bangla Desh group in East Pakistan which is really the basic cause of the agonizing refugee problem which has been created in West Bengal. The Government will continue to do whatever it can to reduce the tensions in East Pakistan and to see that justice is brought about there. 
The Government of Japan lays down sterilisation rules for the import of fruit and vegetables into that country, but the rules do not necessarily apply unilaterally to all countries. This is because of the different diseases and the different insects found in different countries. In imports from Australia the main concern of Japan is with the Mediterranean fruit fly and the Queensland fruit fly. Japan has laid down certain conditions for the sterilisation of our citrus and pome fruits exported to Japan. Unfortunately we have not been able to devise a satisfactory form of treatment for this fruit which would have the approval of the Australian fruit industry or the Japanese Government. Research is being carried out in regard to this matter and this work has been going on for a good many years. However, I cannot hold out any hope for a solution to this problem at the moment. We are hoping that we might find a suitable form of treatment but it has not been easy up to date. 
With any economic indicators it is not an actual figure which is so important but the likely trend. It is when the Government sees a trend that is undesirable that appropriate action needs to be taken. There is some concern at the moment over increasing unemployment in this country but, of course, when this is measured against our performance it is not really a matter of great concern. We have a record of having maintained in this country for over 20 years an employment level of more than 99 percent. No other country in the world can consistently show this sort of record. We have maintained this sort of record in a country in which the number of jobs has increased by about 2 million. The population has risen by 44 million, 2 million of them being migrants, yet we have practically maintained full employment over that long period of time. 
It is true that only 98.5 percent of the people are fully employed at the moment and this is the worst position that we have had for a number of years. Certainly if the trend shows an increasing number of unemployed we will act. But at the moment we are endeavouring to restrain the economy in some undesirable areas that have been putting cost pressures on the economy. We need to stand fast until this is done. 
There is far too much calamity howling by some sections of the community about the level of unemployment or stagnation at the moment. This only aggravates trie problem. What the Australian economy needs today is more confidence. We have all of the basic factors of one of the strongest economies in the world. It needs people to come forward and to have confidence to invest and to continue to operate normally. The situation will be aggravated if people are to be fearful or uncertain of the future. We will watch the unemployment situation closely and if the trend is one to give rise to growing COS.cern appropriate action will be taken. 
I believe there has been some misunderstanding in the reporting or in the honourable member's reading of the report of my Press conference yesterday, because when asked this question 
I wish to inform the House that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  left Australia on 30th October to lead the Australian delegation to the 16th session of the Conference in Rome of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation. He is expected to return to Australia at the end of November. During his absence the Minister for Shipping and Transport is Acting Minister for Primary Industry. 
Also, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  left Australia on 29th October to represent the Australian Government at the inauguration of  President  Thieu in Saigon. The Minister is expected to return to Australia tomorrow. During his absence the Minister for National Development is Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
The Prime Minister in his statement to Parliament on 18th August on the future of Australian forces in Vietnam indicated that consideration would be given to the retention of some military training and advisory elements in Vietnam. The size of these elements and their task are under consideration. We are now examining also the possibility of making arrangements to include the training of Cambodians in Vietnam. 
There are no Australian military advisers or instructors in Cambodia and there is no intention of sending any. Discussions have been going on for some time with the American authorities and our allies in Viet' nam and the New Zealand Government on the possibility of training Cambodians in Vietnam, lt is expected that the Prime Minister could have this subject raised when he is having discussions with the American authorities and because of this I am not in a position to state any more in relation to the position. If there is to be an announcement no doubt the Prime Minister will make it. 
As I am led to believe, the situation is that there has been a request to the Minister for Defence for some time that Australia participate in the training of Cambodian personnel in Vietnam. 
There has been a request from the Americans, but also there have been discussions involving the New Zealanders. This matter has been before the Minister for Defence and he wrote to the Prime Minister but, unfortunately, the Prime Minister had not seen this correspondence before he left for America. The correspondence drawing this matter to the Prime Minister's attention was, I am led to believe, sent only a day or two before he left Australia, so it is understandable that he may not have seen it and when he was asked a question in New York he said he had not seen it. That is the fact of the situation. But it is true that here have been discussions about the training of Cambodian troops. I do not know what the position is as regards official communiques but I will certainly look at the matter to see whether anything can be tabled or presented to the Leader of the Opposition. 
I think there are 2 points that need to be realised. We have already made a statement that we will be training a limited number of Cambodian personnel in Australia. 
That statement has already been made. We have also said that we are discussing the possibility of training and advising on the training of certain Vietnamese personnel in Vietnam. The consideration that is now being given is to training a limited number of Cambodian personnel in Vietnam. I would say that if a statement is to be made, this is a matter for the Prime Minister after he has had discussions with American authorities. No doubt when he returns to Australia he will be making a statement to this House and I would think that this would be one of the matters to which he would be referring. This would give all honourable members an opportunity to debate it. 
It will be necessary to have discussions with the British authorities on the future of the United Kingdom-Australia Trade Agreement. But the grounds for any such discussions will not become effective until Britain actually joins the Common Market, which membership takes effect from the beginning of 1973. In the course of those discussions what we will be looking at is the phasing out of the British preferences but we will be negotiating for the maximum benefit of Australian exports to that market. Whether the duty on British exports to this country will go up considerably or whether all other duties will come down correspondingly is not a matter that I want to prejudge at this time. The matter will need to be examined to see how we can get the best value out of adjusting our tariff levels. In the course of doing this it might be advantageous to adjust the levels of tariff so that not only will we benefit from trade with those countries but there will be mutual advantage from our entry to their markets. 
Over the weekend when being questioned by various interviewers I said that it would be necessary for the Australian Government to have discussions with the British Government on a commodity to commodity basis to see how the arrangements are going to affect the marketing of different commodities in Britain. We can clearly see how certain items will be phased out of the British market but in the case of other commodities the position is quite indefinite. We have not reached any conclusion on the phasing out arrangements in respect of many items now enjoying preference on the British market, and this is one of the matters that will have to be discussed more fully. We will also need to have discussions on how the safeguard clause is going to apply to those goods which will be affected by levies under the common agricultural policy. 
The principal items that come to mind are butter, cheese and sugar. These 3 commodities could be abruptly affected if the market situation within Europe became one of self-sufficiency. In such circumstances the levy would make it virtually impossible for our goods to enter the enlarged community. It is these sorts of questions, although some of them might be hypothetical at this point of time, that we will have to discuss to see how they can be resolved. However, the Government has not been inactive in terms of trying to divert trade away from the British market. Indeed SO per cent of our trade has moved away from that market to Asia and North America over the course of the 10-year period in which there has been warning that Britain might enter the Common Market. All I can say is that we are conscious of the difficulties; in some cases it is not clear just what the effects will be but we are trying to prepare for them. 
It is true that the Australia to Europe shipping group has initiated this wool action group, consisting of the shippers and wool industry personnel. People such as  Sir William  Gunn,  Mr Vines  and  Mr Coombe  are wool industry representatives and the idea is to study the scope for efficiencies and economies in the handling of wool from the farm gate to the mill. They have written to the Government asking for assistance in providing information and we have agreed to give them whatever help we can because if there are efficiencies to be introduced in this area, we believe the matter is extremely important. 
The duty of the Australian Trade Commissioner Service is to provide information and to bring the seller and the buyer closer together. I believe that our Trade Commissioners do an excellent job. Indeed, they have a very high reputation for providing an excellent Trade Commissioner Service. Personnel are not selected on academic qualifications alone. Other factors, particularly their experience in commerce and their general understanding of trade, are taken into account. Eight of the ten people who have been chosen this year have come from the field of commerce and have a great deal of experience in that field. We have not relied on academic qualifications for their appointment. I do not see great merit in having 3 travelling salesmen going around the world looking for markets. It is a job for business itself to go out and try to sell, given all the support, help and advice that can be given from the Trade Commissioner Service. 
The main point that the Prime Minister will need to make in discussions with American authorities is whether Australia agrees to have discussions with the governments of the United States, Cambodia, Vietnam and New Zealand on the possibility of training Cambodians in Vietnam. This matter has been looked at by the Government, and it has conveyed a message to the Prime Minister. He will know the position of the Government in relation to that issue. If a decision is reached to participate in negotiations he will no doubt convey that decision to the Parliament. 
There is one slight difference between this case and the original decision to send Australian advisers to Vietnam, and that is that we have no intention of sending Australian personnel in Cambodia to be involved in any of the operations there. I made that clear in my answer to the first question of the Leader of the Opposition. I said that we have no personnel there now and we do not intend to send any personnel to Cambodia. But the fact is that we have announced that we are prepared to give military aid to Cambodia and to train Cambodians in Australia. The decision which is now under consideration is whether we will assist in the training of Cambodians alongside Vietnamese in Vietnam. This is a question that has been discussed by a number of governments which want to know whether Australia is prepared to discuss the matter. 
I do not accept that we have not had the advantage of considerable trade with Communist countries. Indeed, until this year we have been one of the major trading partners of the People's Republic of China. 
Well, we have been for a period of some 9 or 10 years when there was a large market there for the sale of wheat. This year we have not been able to negotiate a contract for the sale of wheat but we have been very successful in selling other commodities to China. Indeed, at the last Canton fair we were one of the most successful sellers of various metal goods. Our trade is growing with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and, as 1 said to this House only a week or so ago, the Soviet Union is now our second largest market for beef. It is a large buyer of wool and we hope to see more trade develop with this country. At the moment we have a trade mission in Poland and Czechoslovakia. We are hoping to continue our trade agreement with Poland and to negotiate further sales of Australian goods - this is reciprocal trade, mind you - to these countries. There is no closed attitude towards trading with Communist countries, but we will not determine our political approach to the problems of these countries because of trade. We keep trade and politics entirely separate and do not intend to allow one to influence the other. 
The honourable member for Cunningham asks many questions that involve Government policy, It is true that recently, when asked a question about what the Australian Country Party would think of controls on the stock exchanges and whether it thought they should be uniform across Australia, I gave an affirmative answer. I was speaking on behalf of the Country Party. I was fully aware of the fact that a Senate committee is examining the operations of the stock exchanges, and I think that before the Government considered what action it should take it would look at the report that will come forward from the Senate committee. 
I will ascertain what information can be provided and will let the honourable member know immediately. 
In answer to a similar question raised by the honourable member, the Prime Minister replied on 6th May 1971 that the Public Service Board had the matter of the minimum standards of furlough entitlement under review. 
I am informed that the Public Service Board has not yet completed its investigations as the question of the basic qualifying period for furlough is one of a number of furlough issues which are under examination. 
When the Public Service Board has made its recommendations, the matter you have raised will be considered by the Government. 
As Acting Prime Minister I give the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
(a) On 27th August 1971 a letter was received from the Premier of Tasmania proposing several alternatives of a marketing authority for apples and pears. (b) Yes. 
The Premier was not advised that his letter was referred to the Minister for Primary Industry, as it is not usual to advise Premiers - or any other correspondents - of the administrative processes that must be taken in the evaluation of matters of this kind. 
As Acting Prime Minister I give the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Approximately $65,300 of which amount a claim for $12,801.97 has been made by the Department of the Army against the Queensland Police Department for repayment for rations and accommodation provided by Northern Command for the Queensland Police. 
No. 
Not applicable. 
The Public Service Board has provided me as Acting Prime Minister the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
First Division officers:  Sir Donald  Anderson (Department of Civil Aviation since 1st January 1956); Major-General  Sir William  Refshauge (Department of Health since 1st September 1960);  Mr A.  G. Turner (Department of the House of Representatives since 1st January 1959) and  Mr B.  White (Department of the Army since 30th April 1958). 
Second Division officers: As at 30th June 1971, there were 30 Second Division officers who had occupied substantially the same position of authority for more than 10 years. Their names and designations are listed below. 
There is no desire on the part of the Government to avoid debate on this issue. I made a statement to the House upon ray return from discussions overseas and it is certainly the desire of the Government to have a debate on the statement. It is a matter of whether we can fit the debate in with the timetable and procedures of the House. 
I certainly hope that the debate can be fitted in. There is a long programme. At the moment it is calculated that the session will continue until at least 9th December. We are presently debating the Estimates, but it is my desire and wish that we have a debate on the paper which I presented to the House. 
There could have been a request made, but I have not seen it - probably because I have been pre-occupied with other things. If it has been made it would have come forward only in the last few days. I cannot give the honourable member any information about the request, not having seen it. I will ask my Department whether such a request has been received, and I will see whether I can comply with it in the way suggested by the honourable member. 
While I am on my feet, I have a reply to the question asked by the honourable member for Balaclava as to when the report of the Australian Industries Development Corporation will be tabled. I have been informed now that the report is with the Government Printer and that it should be tabled in this House within the next 2 weeks. 
 The Australian Labor Party is endeavouring to make a new issue out of the Indo China war. It is trying to say that Australia is becoming involved in an extension of that war. Yesterday I made it quite clear to this House on at least 3 occasions when answering questions that Australia has no military personnel involved in the war in Cambodia and has no intention of having any involved. The Labor Party apparently is looking for an issue to cover up some of its shattered affairs and its attempts to resolve issues amongst its members. It is nit-picking the Government to try to find an issue. For it to say that this is a substantial issue or that there could be a substantial charge against the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  warranting the suspension of Standing Orders and a censure motion, it must be hard put to find issues to raise against the Government. 
I think it is important that we have clearly in our minds the real nature of the issues we are discussing. There are 3 issues. The first is the breakdown of communication during the processing of the inquiry and the Minister has admitted already that this slip-up should not have occurred and that action is being taken to try to avoid it in the future. The second issue, which is more important than the first, is the decision which will result from the discussions we propose to hold with our allies. The third issue, which is of far greater significance than either of the first 2, concerns the fundamental principles underlying the Government's policy in relation to the defence of South East Asia and its understanding of the nature of its responsibilities to the people of South East Asia. As to the first issue, much has been said to the effect that the inquiry by the United States of America as to whether Australia would consider helping in the training of Cambodians, not Laotians, as mentioned in this motion before us - there has never been any suggestion that the Government would be involved in the training of Laot.ia.ns - has been treated in a low key manner. 
The United States did approach us in a low key manner and there is nothing unusual in the way the approach was made. The manner of the approach certainly was low key. The inquiry was made at departmental level by an officer of the United States Embassy. There is nothing unusual in the way the matter was then considered by officials of the various departments likely to be concerned, lt was also normal and accepted procedure for this thorough-going departmental consideration to be carried out before the matter was considered by the Minister for Defence so that the Department of Defence, following consultation with other departments, would be able appropriately to advise the Minister for Defence on the matter. It would then be normal procedure, in a matter of this kind, for the Minister for Defence either to bring the matter before the attention of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  or to bring it before Cabinet. 
Because of the nature of the inquiry, 1 believe that the Prime Minister should have been aware of it sooner. But unfortunately he was not and, as has been explained by the Minister for Defence and myself, there was an unfortunate delay in the matter being brought to the Prime Minister's attention before he left Australia. But, as the Minister for Defence said, the Prime Minister was under pressure, he had many things on his mind, and the message did not get through to him. But the Minister for Defence had done his job. He had forwarded the information to the Prime 
Minister, and the information was taken by the Prime Minister and the officers accompanying him to America. This delay should not have occurred, and the Minister for Defence has explained that he intends to see that it does not happen again. 
This matter, in my view, does not constitute grounds for the motion that the Australian Labor Party has brought before us. The Minister for Defence is an experienced and able Minister, and this is not a substantial charge which the Opposition has laid against him. His integrity is not involved. The Opposition makes an issue out of a relatively minor matter. But I think we should get closer to the more important principles involved in this matter. At the beginning this matter was treated in a low key manner because the matter, in itself, is merely an extension to a marginal degree of the existing and already stated proposal to help train Cambodians. But it had, and did, become the subject of higher level consideration because the principles involved represented a fundamental part of our view of our responsibilities. The matter became the subject of high level consideration not because it, in itself, is of great significance, but because it represents a real development and demonstration of our awareness of our responsibilities to our allies in South East Asia. 
If we believe that the Cambodians should be trained to defend their country - and the Government does believe this - is it fair that we should stand aside and leave the responsibility to others? We have already agreed to train Cambodians in Australia. We are already giving material help to Cambodia. Can anyone really support a claim that there is some real difference between our training of Cambodians in Australia and training them in Vietnam. If the support offered for such a claim is that (his would represent the start of another Vietnam type involvement, I must repeat what I and the Minister for Defence said yesterday, that there are no Australians in Cambodia, and there is no intention to send any Australian military personnel to Cambodia. There is no intention to send Australian personnel to Cambodia to become involved in any of the operations there. This is an important point which must be made clear. 
What we are proposing to discuss with our allies is simply a proposal marginally to extend our existing training and advisory team in South Vietnam - it is already there, and it is known that it is staying there - to enable it to help train Cambodians in South Vietnam in addition to training South Vietnamese themselves. If members of the Opposition say that we should not help train Cambodians to defend themselves, I must say that the only basis on which they can oppose this proposal is that they fear that it will involve us in another Vietnam type of war. I believe we must recognise that this fear also exists in the minds of the Australian people. It is because I recognise this that I emphasised yesterday, as I emphasise again now, that the Government has no intention whatever of entering into any commitment in Cambodia. This fear, if it exists, of another Vietnam type involvement can be further dispelled by the fact that the circumstances surrounding the present proposal are quite different from those which applied when we decided to send advisers to South Vietnam. In the present case the proposal to be discussed is for Cambodians to be trained outside their own country. This is a completely different situation from that in which our Vietnam involvement originated. 
One cannot help feeling that the Opposition is using this debate not so much to oppose the proposal that Australia should help train the Cambodians, but to try to embarrass the Government on what is, as I have frankly admitted, a slight breakdown in communications in this matter. But what is the important point here? Is it a breakdown in procedures which gives the Opposition a chance to attack the Government, or is it a very important principle which should be viewed in the light of its own significance? In itself - and I emphasise those 2 words - the action which could result from the discussions we propose to hold, helping to train Cambodians in South Vietnam, is clearly not a matter of significance. Such an action would not represent any basic change in policy. It would not represent, in any sense, the beginning of a new line of policy. It would be only a marginal extension of our current training of South Vietnamese in South Vietnam and our existing proposals to train Cambodians in Australia. It would be an extension of our existing policy of providing material help to Cambodia. It would not be inconsistent with our withdrawal of combat forces from South Vietnam, but it would be entirely consistent with our view that withdrawal from combat should not mean a complete cessation of assistance to people who will continue to face a very difficult task in securing their freedom from aggression. 
The Government believes that Australia should help Cambodia. No-one denies that Cambodia has been subjected to aggression. This is certainly not denied by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  Is the Opposition suggesting that, Cambodia having suffered this aggression, we should completely turn away and ignore Cambodia's plight? I know it is good politics for the Opposition to suggest by inference, by implication or even by direct claim that this is the first step towards a new war involvement by Australia. But as I and the Minister for Defence have stated, we have no intention of sending any military personnel to Cambodia itself. It is very significant that in all the points that were raised in questions yesterday there was only one suggestion - by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  - that the Government should not provide these advisers. Is that ALP policy? If so, the Australian people would like to know. But if the ALP's policy is to ignore the aggression in Cambodia and to refuse any help, then a major difference exists between the Government and the Opposition. 
On the questions that have been raised concerning the direct inquiry by the United States, I see nothing wrong. I see nothing undesirable or irregular in this. I can see no reason for attaching such significance to the argument whether or not there has been, or should have been, a direct request from Cambodia. There have been discussions with the Cambodians on the training of personnel in Australia. These discussions took place earlier this year when the Cambodian Minister for Foreign Affairs visited Australia. As I said yesterday, the request came from an official of the United States Embassy. What is the request? Is it to send advisers to a country to participate directly in the defence of that country? No, it is not. Is it to train troops in their own country where they are engaged in fighting? 
No. Is it to commit forces to battle? No. Is it to do something radically different from what we are already doing? No. 
For some 18 months the Americans have been training Cambodians in South Vietnam in a joint effort with the Cambodian and South Vietnamese authorities. The suggestion that Australian and New Zealand instructors should join with the American instructors seemed to me to be a perfectly reasonable and natural development. A request by the Americans that we should consider helping in this task seems to me to be a reasonable one and one which deserves very serious consideration. The fundamental issues which should be concerning us here are as follows: If we believe that there is aggression in Cambodia - and we do; if we believe the Cambodians should be trained to defend themselves - and we do; if we believe we have a responsibility to share in the task of training them - and we do and we have already said that we do, 1 am unable to see why we should in any way recoil from saying as firmly and as forthrightly as we can: These are matters that we believe in and that we stand by'. I repeat that the Government believes that it has a clear responsibility to accept our share of the burden in training Cambodians to defend themselves. We have already offered to do that in Australia. What is proposed from discussions now is simply a marginal extension of our existing policy and contains no element whatsoever of departure from that policy. I deplore the fact that this censure motion has been brought down upon the Minister for Defence. 
by leave - On 7th October, during consideration of the estimates of the Department of Trade and Industry, I said that I would make a statement concerning certain dissenting views in the Tariff Board's annual report for 1970- 71, after legal advice had been received from the Attorney-General's Department. Much of the dissenting comment in the Board's report concerns the use of research staff. I therefore inform the House at the outset - this is confirmed by the legal advice that has been given - that it is perfectly proper that the Tariff Board should have a research staff available to it at all stages of its work. I refer to the use both of permanent staff and of consultants. Such research services are part of the equipment that the Board is entitled to, and that the Government believes it should have, to assist it in carrying out the important functions vested in it by the Tariff Board Act. 
Paragraph 133 of the Board's annual report notes that on several occasions in recent years the Government has called for improvement in the quality of the Board's reports, and goes on to mention that, during the year, an Industry Economics Branch was established to provide the more rigorous and comprhensive economic studies needed for this purpose. The functions of the Branch are described in the report as follows:  134. The branch will prepare papers (both before and after the public hearing) to assist the Board to identify and analyse key issues, particularly in major inquiries. Its work in advance of the public hearings will improve and augment preinquiry reports which have been compiled for members from a variety of sources for a number of years. After the public hearings it will, as directed by the Board, analyse and comment on important economic issues arising from the evidence submitted by witnesses. 
It is hoped that the. first appointments to the new positions will be made early in 1972. The report notes, however, that there are few persons in Australia with the necessary professional qualifications and that it may take some time before the Branch is fully operational. The report states that, in the meantime, suitably qualified temporary staff have been engaged during university vacations for post-hearing analyses and that their brief is to examine, on the basis of the sworn evidence, specific economic issues regarded as important by the relevant divisions of the Board. 
I am advised that the preparation of post-inquiry analyses as discussed in the Board's report is fully consistent with the provisions of the Tariff Board Act. This is so whether the analyses are made by permanent staff or by consultants. The questions raised by the dissenting Board members regarding the use of consultants for this purpose are set out in paragraphs 1 39 to 142 and 147 to 149 of the Board's report. I refer honourable members to those paragraphs and I shall not re-state them in any detail. One question raised is whether a post-inquiry analysis needs to be submitted in evidence. The answer is No. As stated in the report, the purpose of a post-inquiry analysis is limited to examining, on the basis of the sworn evidence, specific economic issues regarded as important by the relevant divisions of the Board. A further question is whether the use of persons from universities may induce belief that the Board's recommendations were being influenced by specialists. This is a matter for the Board itself to take care of. The third question raised concerns not the ability of the Board to keep the confidences entrusted to it, but rather its ability to continue convincing witnesses and potential witnesses that it can do so. The dissenting opinions state that this in no way puts in an unfavourable light the good name and repute of those whom the Board might employ as consultants to prepare private studies. 

 Mr Speaker, it is not uncommon for government departments themselves to engage outside consultants and to do so in regard to matters of a confidential nature. 
I do not believe that departments thereby give the appearance of not being able to maintain confidentiality. I see no reason why the Tariff Board, which has a high reputation in this respect, is likely to be in any different position. The  Chairman  of the Tariff Board has had discussions with the Attorney-General's Department to ensure that the arrangements in this regard are adequate from the strictly legal point of view. The dissenting members have commented also on the system of preinquiry studies that the Board, in paragraph 136 of the report, states that it introduced in the past year on an experiemental basis. The information for the study referred to was obtained from published material, by way of questionnaires and to a minor extent from interviews with individual persons. The Board says that, in the case mentioned in paragraph 136, most of the material obtained through questionnaires was later submitted as sworn evidence at the public hearing and that copies of the study, excluding confidential information, were made available to all interested parties before the hearing. The dissenting members question the use of pre-inquiry studies and, as I understand, they do so whether the studies are made by permanent staff or by consultants. They suggest that it might well be that material collected by the research staff should be presented as evidence. 
As to the use of published material in a pre-inquiry study, such material is part of the fund of general knowledge and as a genera] rule would not need to be formally presented at a public hearing. Commonwealth statistics provide an example. As to material obtained through questionnaires, the Board has pointed out that much of the materia] is, in fact, given in the form of evidence. As to the remainder, the legal advice is that, under current procedures, this ought also to be given in evidence, and that this could be done by the formal production of the study in evidence by an appropriate person. The  Chairman  of the Tariff Board has informed me that, following discussions with the Attorney-General's Department, it is proposed to revise the procedures so as to confine the studies to consideration of published material and evidence received at a public hearing. The legal advice is that, if the studies are limited in this way, there would be no requirement for them to be formally pro duced in evidence. I believe that the other points raised in respect of pre-inquiry studies relate to matters that the Board can be expected to take account of, as it sees fit and proper. 
I add that the discussions that have taken place have shown that, in regard to the engagement of consultants, appropriate procedures were not followed. Revised procedures for engagement have since been agreed upon with the Public Service Board and with the Attorney-General's Department. What I have just said does not, of course, affect my earlier comments as to the propriety of engaging research staff tn either a permanent or a consultant capacity. In conclusion,  Mr Speaker,  I emphasise 2 points. Firstly, as I said in the House on 28th April, and as the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  reaffirmed on 14th October, the Government believes that the Tariff Board should work independently and that the Government does nol want to interfere in its operations. Secondly, the Government considers that the Board should have expert research assistance available to it so that it can carry out its important functions under the Tariff Board Act in the best possible manner. It will be evident from what I have said to the House that the Government is concerned to see that the Board is appropriately equipped for the discharge of those responsibilities. I present the following paper: 
Tariff Board - Use of Research StaffMinisterial Statement, 3 November 1971. 
As Acting Prime Minister I give the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) Section 37 of the Public Service Act provides that - 
Where the Board is of the opinion that persons appointed to offices in the Second or Third Division should possess professional, technical or other special qualifications, a person shall not be appointed to such an office unless he possesses such qualifications . . . '. 
There are similar provisions in Section 53 of the Act relating to the transfer or promotion of officers. The Board's requirements under these provisions have general application throughout the Service. 
I am advised by the Public Service Board that courses at the Canberra College of Advanced Education relevant to these requirements, from which students will graduate in 1971, have been recognised for those purposes; courses from which students will not be graduating before the end of 1972 or later, have not been recognised at this stage by the Board. 
These latter courses are being examined as they are developed and decisions on their acceptability will be taken after discussion with employing Departments and appropriate educational authorities. 
I wish to inform the House that the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten),  is leaving Australia this afternoon to open an industrial trade display in Singapore on 8th November. He is expected to return to Australia on 10th November. During his absence the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  will be Acting Minister for Repatriation. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is: 
As at 22nd October 1971 the information which has been provided by the various State Premiers' Departments is: 
There is certainly a lot of playing around with quite a few semantics on this issue. I will try to clarify it. What I said in the House the other day was that the Americans had made inquiries as to whether we would enter into discussions with the prospect of sending Australian instructors to South Vietnam to help in the training of Cambodians. The Cabinet looked at this request and advised the Prime Minister that we had made a decision in principle, which I had not announced in this House because the Prime Minister was about to have discussions with the American authorities and it wasleft to the discretion of the Prime Minister to make that statement in principle if he felt there was a need to do so. I mentioned that it was up to the Prime  Minister to make an announcement as to whether these discussions would proceed. I think it is quite obvious to any person that if there are to be discussions on this matter then a decision in principle has to be made, whether you agree or disagree. Also in the cable which I sent to the Prime Minister I said that this would be subject to further discussions pending suitable arrangements and when suitable arrangements have been finalised a statement will be made to this Parliament concluding the matter so that this Parliament will have an opportunity to debate it. But the matter is still being negotiated and will have to be discussed with the 4 governments involved. 
I do not know how I could explain this more clearly than by the simple illustration of a person building a house. First of all he makes a decision in principle to build a house. Having made that decision he then goes into discussions about suitable finance and a suitable builder. There are a lot of negotiations which are necessary before you can actually accomplish what you have in mind. The Prime Minister in his communique said that a decision in principle had been made and that there would need to be further discussions. He could not give any details of what was involved. Of course he could not give any details because the matter has not been finalised and when it is finalised an announcement will be made in this Parliament. 
If I may have a word to say here: The Leader of the Opposition had asked previously that all papers relating to the National Film and Television Training School up to the time he asked that question should be tabled. Those papers were tabled and a statement was made by the Prime Minister. Subsequently there was another question asked about tabling any further correspondence that may have followed after the time when the Leader of the Opposition had asked his question. The Minister for the Environment has gathered together these papers and has had preliminary discussions with me. I am hopeful that he will be in a position to table the documents early next week. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member's question in 1965 was about visits to mainland China by employees of the Commonwealth and of Commonwealth statutory authorities. Qantas is a company the capital of which is owned by the Commonwealth and as such does not fall within the terms of the question. I assume this is why visits by Qantas employees were not included in the answer. 
In answer to the honourable member's question, the  Clerk  of the House of Representatives has supplied the following information: 
The number of petitions presented in each of the last5 years and in 1971 to date was: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government is aware that the application by the United States Government of a 10 per cent surcharge on imports could adversely affect many Australian export industries. Accordingly, representations have been made to the United States Government requesting the removal of the import surcharge on a number of products, including wool. 
The United States Government has not as yet answered our request. I shall inform the honourable member when a reply has been received 
 Although the honourable member's question refers to attendance at conferences, the following answer lists all overseas visits by Ministers, since  Mr McMahon  became Prime Minister, whether to attend conferences or for other purposes. 
The  answer to the honourable member's question is  yes. 
There has been a longstanding understanding with the New Zealand Government that butter will not be allowed into this country. We have a stabilisation scheme in Australia which, if it is to be effective, must not allow imports to come in and subvert its operations. We are an efficient producer of dairy products. Figures that have been produced in the past by the Food and Agriculture Organisation and other International organisations put us the second or third most efficient producer of dairy products in the world. I think it does great harm to the morale of the Australian dairying industry for a person like  Mr Hawke  to go overseas and glibly say that dairy products will be allowed into this country. It exhibits 2 things: Firstly, a lack of understanding of bow our marketing authorities work and secondly, a complete lack of sympathy for our rural producers. 
I have seen a report ot a statement by the Premier of New South Wales that he is going- 
I read a report that he was going to write a letter to the Prime Minister asking for a Premiers Conference. I have not received the letter as yet. It may be with the Department, but I have not received it. In reading the report I note that the Premier was going to write to the Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  and that the matter no doubt would be considered by the Government on his return. When the letter is received in my Department it will be examined, but I would expect that no Government decision will be made until the Prime Minister returns. 
The facts as stated by the honourable member are correct. I mentioned in this House earlier that it looked as if we would not be able to fill our quota to the United States. Present indications are that we will run about 15,000 tons short of what our quota would be. It is true that New Zealand has been awarded some 21 million lb extra.. How the New Zealanders have been able to fill it I cannot say offhand, but I will find out and let the honourable member know. 
 Mr Speaker,  this is a pretty general question asking for a pretty general answer. There does appear to be some slight easing of industrial activity in some sectors of the economy, but 1 would not go as far as to say that it is general. There are some areas where business is still very brisk; certainly in the retailing section of the community there is a high activity. As the Treasurer mentioned, the Government is watching the" situation closely, and if it appears that the economy is getting out of balance and that the Government actions are tending to affect or over-affect the economy adversely, the Government will take appropriate action. 
A telegram was sent on the 29th and it did request that I ask the Minister for Labour and National Service to go to Western Australia to investigate the unemployment and the building industry there. This telegram was subsequent to 2 earlier telegrams that had been sent, one on 4th October and one on 13th 
October, referring to unemployment in the building industry and asking that a $30m grant be made to Western Australia to assist it in this respect. A reply was sent back to the union on 26th October to the effect that there was no evidence of lack of finance in the State for building and that the present situation resulted fundamentally from an extremely high level of construction in recent years leading to a situation of temporary over building. We are conscious that there is a degree of unemployment there. We believe it is a temporary situation. We are watching the situation. 1 am conferring with my colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service, and if action needs to be taken at the Commonwealth level we will do so. 
I noted a report in a newspaper today that there was supposed to be some substantial increase in the price of some types of wool. Whether this is a fact I do not know. But I do not appreciate derogatory remarks being made about the Australian Wool Commission which I feel is doing a very important job in trying to stabilise the price of wool and giving added competition within the market. 
The Commission is going through a difficult period in having to buy up more wool than one would wish. But we hope that there will be an upturn in the market so that there will not be the requirement for the Commission to buy so much to maintain the present price levels. I noted a comment by the Minister for Primary Industry which was made when he was going through Japan on his way to Rome that he had bad very favourable discussions with the Japanese Wool Spinners Association and that reports given to him were that it could see increasing activity in the purchase of wool. Maybe the Commission's present difficulties will be shortlived. 
The Prime Minister announced in Washington that favourable consideration would be given to allowing the Americans to use Cockburn Sound as a naval base and Learmonth Royal Australian Air Force establishment as an air base. This is consistent with our ANZUS understanding and the Government is very pleased to co-operate and negotiate with the Americans to have defence bases in Australia. There is nothing novel about nuclear warships coming to Australia. We have bad visits from nuclear warships at various times. These visits took place after discussions and an assurance that there was no risk involved in these nuclear ships being in this country. 
But why the honourable member wants to create doubt about . Americans having bases in Australia I suppose is consistent with the attitude of the Australian Labor Party whenever we discuss any defence installation in this country. The Labor Party always takes a very grudging attitude to these bases and tries to write conditions into the establishment of them which makes it virtually inoperable for the Americans to be here. 
Earlier today the Leader of the Opposition asked me whether I had received a letter from the Premier of New South Wales. A letter has been received in my office and in that letter the Premier has said that he would like a decision as soon as possible after the Prime Minister returns from overseas. 
 It is not practicable to furnish precise replies to the honourable members questions for the following reasons: 
The number of tariff items varied in any year may amount to several hundreds. Frequently, whole sections of the Customs Tariff are restructured as a result of Tariff Board recommendations. Administrative changes are also made from time to time. Rents are fragmented and in other cases', amalgamated. It is seldom possible, in these circumstances, to compare the Tariff, item by item, before and after re-structuring. It is, therefore', not possible to advise the number of items on which tariffs have been applied, varied or discontinued. 
Protective tariffs are determined only after public inquiry and report by the Tariff Board. The Board furnishes some 20 to 30 reports each year. A single report may cover anything from very few to over 100 separate tariff items. It is not, therefore, possible to assess the costs to the Commonwealth of investigation on an itembyitem basis. 
The total expenditure by the Tariff Board over the last 3 years was: 
I cannot answer the last part of the question. I am not aware of the meeting to which the honourable member refers. But I thought I answered this question when the Leader of the Opposition asked me about the matter last week.- Before we could convey to the Prime Minister whether we would enter into discussions about the training of Cambodians in South Vietnam it was necessary  for the Government to take a decision in principle whether we would or would not do it. We took a decision in principle and we left it to the Prime Minister to make the announcement if he felt it was necessary, and he did. Now what is required is that discussions take place to work out the details of the arrangements for the training of those troops in Vietnam together with the other discussions which are taking place about training South Vietnamese with Australian instructors and advisers. 
If I may 1 would like to answer the question. To get the record straight, Australia had a policy in relation to Cambodia for approximately 18 months. This policy was established when Prime Minister Gorton announced at the time of the across-the-border operations, when Vietnam and American troops went into Cambodia, that Australian troops were not involved and would not be involved in operations in Cambodia. This has been our consistent policy. In all requests to Australia for military aid we have resisted any request to send advisers or instructors to Cambodia to train Cambodian troops. We have aided Cambodia with military equipment and with civil aid. In April this year there was a request from the American Embassy that we help train Cambodians in Cambodia. This request was made to the then Minister for Foreign Affairs and was handled by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence, who turned the request aside consistent with our policy. The Prime Minister was notified of the discussions that had taken place and the refusal by Australia to participate in that type of operation. 
However, the request that was made of the Australian Government on 30th September was an entirely different one. It sought to engage in discussions about training Cambodians in South Vietnam, not in Cambodia. That is the difference between the 2 requests. Between those dates we had had discussions which, I believe, were initiated by requests from the Cambodian Foreign Minister for aid for his country. We agreed to train Cambodians in Australia and this was announced in a defence statement in about July. I will not commit myself to the actual date but it was certainly made in the middle of this year. So the Government had established a policy of training Cambodians in Australia, as it has had a policy for a number of years to train iti Australia military personnel from other countries in South East Asia. There has never been any objection to this. The question is whether we will participate in the training of Cambodians in South Vietnam. The Prime Minister has already announced that we are entering discussions on the training of South Vietnamese in South Vietnam and the training of Cambodians would be in conjunction with this. There is little new policy involved in this operation and I believe that the Government has been consistent throughout. I find it difficult to understand why the Australian Labor Party wants to keep carping about this matter. I read a statement reporting the Leader of the Opposition as saying that this idea should be nipped in the bud immediately and that we should not be involved with the Cambodians at all. Well, obviously the Government and the Opposition hold different points of view on this subject. We believe that aid should be given to Cambodia, but we do not intend to get involved with Australian military personnel in that country. 
The honourable member has asked an interesting question, but I do not know whether it has much substance. To imagine that government does not continue to operate because the Prime Minister is out of the country shows a complete lack of understanding of how government works. The Cabinet is continuously discussing matters and making decisions on them. It made a decision as far as the training of Cambodian troops is concerned and it related that decision to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister was then in a position to make an anouncement if he felt it fitting to do so. As far as revealing any other papers or making an announcement in relation to this matter is concerned, that will be le ft in the hands of the Prime Minister when he returns from overseas. 
This is a matter for consideration by the Leader of the House. He has probably heard the question and will have it in mind when he is arranging the programme. 
I think 1 should answer this question. There certainly will be no end to the confusion if the Labor Party keeps nibbling away at Press reports and comments that are made around the world. What I have said in this House is quite clear, and that is that we have made a decision in principle to have discussions and talk with the 4 countries involved about the training of Cambodians in South Vietnam. We have not made a statement that a decision in principle had been reached by the other countries. The decision has been made only by Australia. I do not care what the Press reports to which the honourable gentleman has referred may say. We are not speaking on behalf of any other country. We have not said that the matter has been finalised. Discussions will have to take place and details will need to be worked out. When this is done a statement will be made in this House and a full opportunity given for honourable members to debate it. 
I am aware of the announcement by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd that it is required to curtail some of its production. This is due to 2 factors. One is the difficulty in obtaining export orders, the international market being very depressed at the moment, and the other is the easing of book orders on the Australian market. This state of affairs is due to a number of factors. No doubt one of them would be the Government's Budget strategy to try to dampen down economic activity in some areas where there is excess demand, but another cause is the rural recession, which has meant that fewer orders are being given for steel materials. Thirdly, this state of affairs is created by a difficulty which many businesses and governments - local, State and Commonwealth - are experiencing in maintaining sufficient funds or profitability to be able to continue to maintain and expand their operation because of the very substantial wage increases taking place in Australia. If these wage pushes continue as we have seen over the last 12 months, I would say the economic circumstances of many businesses and of Government in Australia will continue to worsen. The Commonwealth Government is concerned about the wage push and the resulting inflation that it is causing and it is doing whatever it can to try to bring reason and sense between employers and employees to try to be a little prudent and modest with their demands so that the economy can get back on to a reasonable keel. Likewise, if we can see ways and means of adjusting the economy from a national fiscal point of view and if this is demanded, it will be done. But the Government is watching the situation closely. However, it will require  a  joint effort not only by the Government but also by industry and labour in this country. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
From January, 1970 to August 1971, there were eight occasions where reports by the Tariff Board recommended a general reduction of duties on the major products covered by the references and the recommendations were adopted by the Government. These reductions relate to: 
Breathing Appliances 
Cherries 
Footwear with Non-Leather Uppers 
Gelatin: 
Man-made Fibres 
Nitrogeneous Fertilisers (Ammonium Chloride) 
Relays 
Vinyl Acetate. 
In addition there have been other reports by the Tariff Board which have recommended reductions in some of the items under reference and the Government has accepted these recommendations; for example, weighing machines and weights, pins, and hairpins, centrifuges. The reductions made following the Nitrogeneous Fertilisers Report applied only to imports of ammonium chloride, but these were already admitted at reduced rates under Customs By-Laws. In addition, urea and sulphate of ammonia had received assistance against import . competition by means of a bounty but, following the Tariff Board report, this assistance was discontinued as from 18th November 1970. 
Cherries- In bis report of 25th May 1971, the Special Advisory, Authority reported that evidence submitted on behalf of the Australian manufacturers of drained cherries claimed that with the removal of duties following the Government's acceptance of the Tariff Board's recommendations, local users could obtain imported drained cherries delivered into store at prices ranging from 31 to 33 cents per lb compared with the Australian price of about 54 cents per lb. It was also claimed that imported brined cherries sold at about 8 cents per lb cheaper than the Australian price. The principal Australian manufacturers of drained cherries ceased production and the further purchase of brined cherries. 
Gelatine - I understand that there has been no reduction in the standard price, and no significant change in employment and capital employed. 
Vinyl Acetate - I understand that prices have been reduced by an amount equivalent to the reduction in tariffs, and that no significant changes have occurred in employment or capital employed. 
Relevant details for the remaining items are not available. 
Cherries - Following representations from the local industry, the matter was referred to the Special Advisory Authority on 22nd April 1971, and temporary duties were imposed on brined and drained cherries on 25th May 1971. 
Footwear with Non-Leather Uppers - Representations have been received regarding possible future difficulties following the implementation of the Tariff Board's recommendations, but no formal requests for action have been made. 
Man-made Fibres - I refer the honourable member to my reply, to Question on Notice No. 2772. 
Relevant details of Australian import clearances are shown in the table below: 
As Acting Prime Minister I provide the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The honourable member will be aware that, prior to the presentation of the Report of the Committee of Economic Inquiry, the Commonwealth and State Governments had agreed to establish a Commonwealth-State Officials' Committee on Decentralisation. The Committee is in course of preparing a report to the Commonwealth and State Governments which will doubtless deal with issues such as those referred to in paragraph 17.77 of the Report of the Committee of Economic Inquiry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I note that the honourable member says that it is the policy of the Australian Labor Party to abolish the Senate. I need not remind him that this is not the Government's policy. 
1 can assure the honourable member that the question of the timing of the construction  of  the new and permanent Parliament House will  be  considered in the light of all relevant factors, including parliamentary needs, and including also national economic priorities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Countries which, in addition to the United States of America, contributed troops to the support of the Republic of Vietnam against unprovoked communist aggression were Australia, the Republic of Korea, New Zealand, the Philippines and Thailand. The notable feature that all these countries have in common is that they are all situated in the same Asian-Pacific region as the Republic of Vietnam itself. 
The decision to contribute troops was taken by the Australian Government having regard to its assessment of Australia's national interests. It is a matter of public record that the decision was warmly welcomed by the people and Government of the Republic of Vietnam and by the governments which took similar action. 
The Australian Government would not expect the Government of the United States of America to make gestures of appreciation in respect of decisions made by the Australian Government in the pursuit of Australia's national interests. 
The United States of America has duties on row wool and wool manufactures.- In addition there is a 10 per cent import surcharge on raw wool. The United States National Wool Act of 1954, as amended, limits the accumulated total of payments under the Act on any date to 70 per cent of the accumulated total, as of the same date, of gross receipts from specific and ad valorem duties on wool and wool manufactures on and after 1st January 1953. The answers to (a) and (b), then, are shown in the following table: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Singapore 
No details are available from official Singapore sources of investment agreements concluded with the Singapore Government by foreign companies or of actual investments made in Singapore by foreign companies. 
Official Singapore statistics record that as at the end of December 1969, the total cumulative investment made by foreign companies in Singapore, as represented by gross fixed assets in manufacturing concerns, amounted to the equivalent of approximately $A150m. The breakdown of identifiable foreign investment by countries as at the end of December 1969. was as follows: 
We have just heard the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor).  He made the classic remark that he was not a calamity howler. I would hate to hear him when he is making a miserable speech because that was one of the most snivelling speeches I have heard in this House. In fact, 1 do not think it would be possible for him to see the bright side of anything, even on the best of occasions. 
One of the most interesting things about this debate is the revelation of the Australian Labor Party's new interest in economic affairs. It is just over 2 weeks since the Labor Party's high-powered $20,000 midterm election campaign ended. No doubt most honourable members have forgotten about it. Therefore, I think I should remind honourable members of the subjects covered in that campaign. They were industrial affairs - 1 am sure the Labor Party has not forgotten about that one; defence; immigration - the honourable member lor Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  would not have forgotten that one; cities and decentralisation; education; and health. But not a word was spoken about primary industry. It is most notable that not one Opposition  speaker  has this afternoon gone into details of the economic problems of the rural sector of the community. They have practically ignored the subject. But is it any wonder? What could they say? Which Labor viewpoint could they give? lt is most significant to note that there was no reference in that campaign to the management of the national economy. 
Apparently there has been such a tremendous change in the last 2 weeks as to warrant the serious action which the Opposition has taken against the Government today. The Opposition has charged the Government with the mismanagement of the economy. I think it is most important to understand what we are talking about in this debate. We are not talking about an economy that is in bad shape. We are not talking about an economy in which there is little growth. We are not talking about an economy in which unemployment is rife. Wc are not talking about an economy marked by balance of payments problems. We are talking about an economy which is, and which is recognised around the world as being, of great strength. We all know that the maintenance of a fine balance in national economies has proved to be extremely difficult in the advanced nations. No country in the world has found it easy to control inflationary pressures. Despite this basic difficulty, Australia and this Government have had an outstanding economic record for many years. 
No-one denies that there have been developments this year which have given us cause for concern. The rate of price increase, which is largely due to wage rises, is higher than we would like. There has been an increase in unemployment. Conditions in the rural sector, as a result of reasons largely beyond our control, are a cause for serious concern. But I do not believe that anyone will deny that the Australian economy is basically a sound one - one of the soundest in the world. For many years employment has been maintained at extremely high levels by world standards; in fact; at a level considered to be full employment by any developed country. In the 10 years to 1970 the rate of growth of consumer prices averaged only 2.5 per cent a year, which is a better record than that of almost all other advanced countries. Our overseas reserves are at a record level. 
The Government has shown that it is quick to act when it believes that action is necessary. In February we reduced planned Government expenditure. We curtailed the growth of the Public Service and suspended the special .investment allowance for manufacturing industry. We have continued our restraining monetary policy. With our fiscal policy this year we have budgeted for a surplus to forestall what appeared to be a threatening boom in demand, which would add to inflationary pressures. At the same time, in response to the difficulties of the rural sector, we have found a record $560m for direct and indirect assistance to that sector. 
I come back again to the inescapable and undeniable fact that the economy is basically sound. There is an extremely high rate of capital inflow which, although it is attacked by the Opposition as something it would stop completely, is an indication of confidence and faith in the economy by those who look at it from outside. There has been a strong trade surplus so far this year. This has led to an extremely strong balance of payments position, with our overseas reserves standing at a record level of $2,626m. The latest national accounts figures are reassuring. For example, the gross national product rose 3.5 per cent in the September quarter over the June quarter. Non-farm output rose 4 per cent in the same period, showing a good recovery from the subdued 1 per cent increase in the June quarter. Nothing I have said, however, evades the fact that there are areas of the domestic economy at which we must look very carefully to determine whether existing policies are adequate. The upward pressure on wages continues. There is also the claim which is to be heard early next year for a $12.50 a week increase in the national wage. The rate of growth of prices is still too high. That is causing serious concern, particularly in a rural sector dependent on overseas markets and returns beyond the farmers' control. The manufacturing sector is finding it increasingly difficult to cope with the upward pressure on costs. 1 believe we need to look carefully and continuously at the high rate of capital inflow and its effect on the economy. We need to understand the implications of the level of unemployment in the rural areas, which could well have very serious social effects. In the search for a means of providing greater stability in the rural areas, I believe wc must attach far greater importance to the policies of decentralisation. In decentralisation we can look forward to a soundly based and longer term instrument of rural strength and stability. In the manufacturing area, I believe we must be careful that industry is not unnecessarily inhibited in taking advantage of modern equipment and techniques which will allow it to continue improving its productivity. I believe that we must when we are looking at the problems of primary producers give consideration to their special needs, particularly in relation to the period of repayment of finance. Those are some of the important matters which the Government must, and does, continually keep under scrutiny. lt is very easy to create an atmosphere of emotion about the economy, particularly when people are prepared to inject a feeling of panic into the employment situation. Any degree of unemployment is a serious matter for the unemployed and, of course, it must be very seriously regarded by any government. But, although a government must be concerned about the feelings and positions of people as individuals, it must be also very concerned about the overall management of the national economy. It must do everything in its power to maintain the very fine balance I spoke about earlier, lt must not be panicked by a highly charged emotional debate into measures which could jeopardise the economy's fundamental strength. lt must accept criticism on particular and limited aspects of the economic situation. And it will accept this criticism if it knows that its management is producing overall a sound economic situation. The Government will continue to act on the domestic front as economic conditions demand. But it will avoid action which would produce violent swings in the economy. In fact, precipitate action could create even bigger problems for exporters, lt is important that ail sectors of the Australian community recognise the need for restraint and cooperation if the existing basic soundness of the economy is not to be undermined. 
On the international scene,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  it is true that there have been some worrying developments in trade. These are to a large degree outside the control of the Government. First, there are the possible adverse effects on some of our traditional exports following the enlargement of the European Economic Community. Here again, over the past decade the Government has been active and has worked in co-operation with marketing boards and individual traders to reduce substantially our dependence on the British market. The British market now takes only 11 per cent of our exports, compared with 24 per cent 10 years ago. If you were to accept the remarks of the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  this afternoon you would believe that nothing had been done. This diversification effort will be pursued, and over the coming months and years there will be continuing discussions on a commodity by commodity basis with Britain, and with the EEC itself, on the means to achieve minimum disruption of our existing trade. 
Second, there is the continuing currency crisis. Fortunately the major trading nations have not retaliated against the United States for its corrective measures taken in August. At the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade meeting in Geneva last week,  I  gained a strong impression that their apprehension about the currency situation will ensure that good sense will prevail among the nations and sensible policies will emerge. We all hope that the current meeting in Rome of the Group of Ten will see a clear advance towards a satisfactory outcome of the present crisis. At the GATT meeting there was also clear evidence of a greater willingness to tackle the problems of international trade in agricultural commodities. 
The proposal which I put forward on behalf of Australia for the establishment of an expert group to seek means of agricultural trade liberalisation was very well received, and attracted strong support. It was opposed only by the EEC, Britain and Ireland. This opposition prevented GATT accepting the proposal on this occasion. However, our proposal is still very much an issue and the Council of GATT will keep it under close examination. Australia will certainly continue to seek this objective. The meeting agreed that every opportunity of making progress towards trade liberalistion should be pursued, in both the industrial and the agricultural areas. The contracting parties to GATT also agreed that it was their intention to pursue in GATT a new, major initiative for dealing with longer-term trade problems as soon as this was feasible. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, returning to the domestic scene, it is true that the outlook for wool at the moment is extremely serious. But the Government has acted quickly and positively. It provided urgent relief to the industry and to the country communities depending on wool by underwriting the average return at 36c per lb, and has acted in a number of other ways. It is very encouraging to see the industry grappling with its problems and I can assure the industry that we are ready and anxious to work with it in the search for solutions to its difficulties. 
In any consideration of the difficulties of the rural sector of the economy, we should not let the wool situation blind us to the strength of other commodities. We have just seen a record sales effort by the Australian Wheat Board. The sugar industry is in a sound position, with good prices and a record harvest this year. There is a strong world demand for beef, and export sales for both beef and mutton are at very high levels. There are promising new markets for coarse grains, especially sorghum and barley. There is a secure domestic market at payable prices for tobacco. Prices for major dairy products are at record high levels. We are all well aware of the enormous progress and prospects of minerals and metals, exports of which have increased 7 times in the last 10 years. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, it is completely wrong to suggest that the Australian economy is not sound and strong. If this is the claim of the Opposition in this debate, it is doing a disservice to this House and to this nation. Nothing can be more disruptive of economic confidence than the sort of doubt fostered by this motion. I believe the Australian people will base their judgment not on fear, but on fact. I believe they will look to the Government to react and respond according to economic circumstances, and not according to the kind of doubt which this motion seeks to create. 
No one denies that there are limited areas in which the high gloss on our economy may need a little polishing to restore the sheen we are used to seeing. The Government is aware of this. It has acted and will act as necessary to keep the economy at the pitch that has been maintained for so many years under this Government - one of the strongest and soundest economies in the whole world. 
The following is provided in answer to the honourable member's question: 
No decision has yet been taken on the question of the best method of adjusting the rate of duty on goods imported into this country following British entry to the. EEC. In my statement to the House on 19th August, I made the point that we would have to review the favoured position which we currently accord to Britain in our market. There are several possible courses. Among these is the possibility that the existing general rates in our tariff be reduced to the British preferential rates. However, before adopting such a course the Government would have to take into account the consequences of such reduction for Australian industry, as well as our relations with other countries including countries such as Canada and New Zealand which receive preferential treatment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Imports of canned and other fish, excluding live fish, totalled 85,441,775 lb in 1968-69, 79,263,306 lb in 1969-70 and 97,251,328 lb in 1970-71. 
The main countries exporting fish to Australia over the last 3 years, excluding live fish, were Britain, Japan, New Zealand, Norway and South Africa. 
As imports of canned fish are not recorded separately in official statitistcs it is not possible to provide the detailed information required by the honourable member. However, imports of canned and bottled fish totalled 23,684,086 lb in 1968-69, 23,094,759 lb in 1969-70 and 22,427,835 lb in 1970-71. 
in reply - 1 will take the advice of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and be as brief as possible at this late hour. 1 do not apologise to him for bringing on this Bill at this late stage of the session or this late hour of the night. I regret it happening and wish the debate could have come on earlier in the session. However, the programme did not enable this to be done. The honourable member said that this was more or less a machinery piece of legislation which should not provoke general debate and he is correct. Nevertheless it has produced quite a useful debate on tariffs. Possibly the most useful part of the discussion has been what the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has told us. He has given us a definitive statement of the position of the Australian Labor Party in relation lo its tariff policy. From time to time we have heard varying policies and tonight is the first time we have had one comprehensive policy given on behalf of the Labor Party. To me it is a kaleidoscope policy of all shapes and colours which should please everybody who has an interest in tariffs. Whether it is a practical policy to implement and whether a future government would implement it is another matter. I will not canvass these points tonight because we do not have time. Before making reference to some of the other points I wish to say how pleasing it is that this Bill has the unanimous support of the 
House and that there are no grievances about any particular facets of the amendments I introduced. 
The honourable member for Lalor spoke about the reference points and the concern that this matter is causing for industry. The Tariff Board has referred in its annual reports to high level, medium level and low level reference points as a means of assessing the levels of protection. I am sorry the honourable member for Lalor spoke in the way he did because I think he added more confusion to the confusion that already exists. This is not the method by which the Government assesses the level of protection for industry. The Tariff Board has tried to explain how it is using these reference points relating to the effective rates of protection as a means of helping to establish priorities for a systematic review of the tariff and to help assess the economics of local production. The use of points of reference in helping to determine the sequence of systematic review has been endorsed by industry, both primary industry and secondary industry. The issue which appears to be the subject of contention is the use of reference points by the Tariff Board in arriving at its recommendations. This issue was fully covered in my statement to the House on 28th April 1971. In that statement I said that there are 2 basic principles of tariff making policy. The Government itself is responsible for all decisions and does not use this arithmetical means of determining what the level of protection should be, and before reaching its decisions the Government seeks the advice of an independent Tariff Board. 
The worth of an industry and the establishment of appropriate rates of protection is and always will be a matter calling for the exercise of judgment. The Tariff Board has explained that its points of reference are not in themselves a definitive or independent criterion for assessing the economics of local activities; that the existence of high levels of protection does not necessarily mean that an industry is uneconomic. The worth of an industry cannot be adequately assessed if undue reliance is placed on the points of reference without adequate consideration of other relevant factors. The more comprehensively the Tariff Board is able to take into account the significant economic and non-economic factors which the Government itself must take into account, the more valuable its reports will be to the Government. 
I want to make it quite clear that it is only in relation to a systematic review of the tariff that the reference points have been accepted by the Government. We have instituted this year a progressive review of the tariffs, starting at chapter 84 of the tariff, the section dealing with machinery. Ten references covering this were forwarded to the Tariff Board on 20th May and they will be followed in due course by references to the area of manufactures of metal. This review also was suggested by the Tariff Board. Essentially tariff review is a time-consuming operation. The Board required to undertake detailed consideration of the economics and efficiencies of each industry under review but, looking to see how the time span might be reduced, this is being done in conjunction with the  chairman  of the Tariff Board to whom I have written and with whom I hope to have discussions. I would like to say that in relation to the reference of items under Chapter 84 an advertisement has gone into the newspapers saying that tariffs on domestic appliances and earthmoving equipment will be reviewed and that the opening hearings for domestic appliances are scheduled for 2nd February 1972 in Adelaide and that other hearings are scheduled for 7th February 1972 in - Sydney and 14th February 1972 in Melbourne. For earthmoving equipment hearings will be on 6th December 1971, on 13th December in Melbourne and 17th December in Adelaide. I refer to this to show that we are getting on with the job and, although it will take an undue period of time to carry out a review by the method that is adopted at the moment, I hope that we will be able to find ways and means of short circuiting the review. 
I do not know whether there are any other points I particularly want to mention other than to say that I did interject on the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  when he said that appropriate procedures were not followed. He was referring to the statement I made in the House about the legal opinion 1 had received in relation to the dissenting report in this year's Tariff Board report. I made a mistake when I said it applied to pay. It did not relate to pay; it related to the engagement procedures that are used in obtaining outside assistance to help the Tariff Board. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-I was asked a similar question some weeks ago andI said in reply that the Tariff Board report had been received. I pointed out that this was a very complex report and that it was being given close Government examination. Further I said that the examination was being carried out by an interdepartmental committee and that we hoped to be able to hand down a decision as soon as possible. I am fully conscious of the difficulties that the delay is causing the shipbuilding industry. I am fully aware of the uncertainty that prevails at the moment as to the industry's future. Igive an assurance that we will deal with the report as expeditiously as possible. I would hope that a decision might be made early in the New Year. 
This is a notable and memorable occasion - that of the retirement of our esteemed  Clerk  - and I should like to join with the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in supporting the very fine tribute that you,  Mr Speaker,  paid to  Mr Alan  Turner. On behalf of the Australian Country Party I should like to pay our tribute for his long and distinguished career in this Parliament and congratulate him for the respect that he has earned for himself and the very high standard that he has set for any future  Clerk  of this Parliament. He is a most unobtrusive man. He is probably heard over the air regularly as being the only person who speaks without emotion, either reading petitions or announcing the introduction of Bills. But he is a tremendously important person here. In fact, it is the  Clerk  and those who serve underneath him who provide continuity for the most important institution in this country. We thank  Mr Turner  for the really outstanding and excellent job he has done. 
We thank him too for the valuable contribution that he has made to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the support and advice that he has given to members of this Parliament when they have gone overseas to attend various conferences.  Mr Turner  is held in extremely high regard at these conferences and he would be looked upon as one of the most knowledgeable and most experienced men throughout the Commonwealth countries. I am glad,  Mr Speaker,  that you also made reference to  Mrs Turner.  Most of us know her well. Both  Mr Turner  and  Mrs Turner  are extremely friendly, pleasant and happy people. We will miss their presence around this House but we do hope to see them about in the future. I wish them a long and a happy life in their retirement and express our gratitude for the very valuable service  Mr Turner  has given to this Parliament and to Australia. 
I would like to join with the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in making a few seasonal remarks. It has not been a dull year. There has been sufficient activity in the Parliament to allow our feature writers to fill more than a few columns with news. I am not sure which side of the House has provided the more arresting news, but this side has certainly provided quite a bit. One of the most unusual features of the year - it was an experience I had never had before nor had any present member of this Parliament - was the counting out of the Parliament. Nobody would think it was funny. In fact most of us feel a little ashamed that it happened. I hope we never see it again, but it was an unusual feature of the year. 
I would like to say to you,  Mr Speaker,  how much I. appreciate the way in which you have carried out your most onerous job. You have performed it in a very effective way and with a great deal of dignity. I pay a similar tribute to the people who support you, particularly my colleague the  Chairman  of Committees  (Mr Lucock).  I am very proud of the way he fills that office. I think he does an excellent job and has great command when he is in the chair. He has had to take control of this House on many occasions when you have been away,  Sir, either  overseas or through ill health. On those occasions he has certainly done an excellent job. 
Many people provide the services in the Parliament. I would not like to run through them all because I might fail to mention one or two of them. I have in mind all the people who work behind the Clerks of the House; the staff of Hansard and the Library staff; the attendants and the door staff. I have not had an opportunity before to mention Gordon Pike. He is an exceptional person. I have no doubt that he has been mentioned on previous occasions but I wish to mention him now because I remember very clearly how important he was when I was a private member, in getting me to Canberra and away again. He is a man who never complains, no matter what is asked of him. 
I wish to mention another person. I do not know whether it is appropriate on this occasion, but he was associated with this Parliament for a very long time in connection with the Cabinet Secretariat. I refer to the late Les McSpeerin who died during the week. Les McSpeerin was in the Office of the Cabinet for a period of 21 years. He retired a fortnight ago and died a week after retiring. He was a most courteous and attentive man. Anybody who was associated with him will feel very sad at his passing and because he was robbed of the opportunity of a happy retirement. 
I would also like to thank the Leader of the Opposition for mentioning the wives of members of Parliament. It is terribly important that they are never forgotten because they do have a burden to carry as wives of members. I wish all members of this Parliament a happy Christmas. I hope that they get some relief from the pressures under which they live. The outside world does not really appreciate the amount of time taken by a member of Parliament in serving his electorate, his constituents, his party and the Parliament. I hope that all get a chance to relax. I wish you all well for 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A comparative study which would establish which Australian primary and secondary industries have lower production costs than any other producer has not been undertaken. Such a study would be a task of considerable magnitude requiring extensive research. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The long-standing policy on Commonwealth Government purchasing is that, where overseas goods are in competition with local supplies, ordering authorities are required to add the cost of freight and insurance, and the appropriate amount of any duties and primage which would apply if the goods were being imported commercially. In this way, Australian manufacturers are afforded the protection to which they are normally entitled under the Tariff. (The Australian paper industry is accorded protection under the Tariff.) Exceptions may be made, and higher priced Australian goods favoured, such as when the goods are of strategic importance or the industry is depressed. Consistent with this policy, special consideration may be given to the use of Australian-made paper in private contracts for Government printing work. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Imports of brandy in the financial years 1968-69, 1969-70 and 1970-71 totalled 665,925 proof gallons. Most imports were in bulk at strengths exceeding proof. 
The excise duty on brandy is $8.00 per proof gallon. The customs duty on most imported brandy is $8.50 per proof gallon. Accordingly, the Australian industry has protection through the Tariff at a level of $0.50 per proof gallon. There are no subsidies or import restrictions applicable to brandy. (3), (4) and - (5) Stocks of Australian grape brandy held in bond increased from 5.3 million gallons at 30th June 1970 to 5.8 million gallons at 30th June 1971. 
On 13th October 1971, the Tariff Board was asked to inquire into the question of assistance to the Australian brandy industry. 
It can be expected that the Board will receive evidence on both the build up of stocks and the level of imports of brandy. The questions of whether the stock and import situations present a threat to the Australian wine grape industry are issues on which it would be appropriate for the Tariff Board to furnish advice. 
The Tariff Board has not as yet announced the date of commencement of its public inquiry and I am unable, at this stage, to forecast when the Board's report may be expected. 
Butter Fat and Vegetable Oils: Market in Japan (Question No. 4584) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Trade and Industry is aware of a potential market in Japan for products made from a combination of butter fat and vegetable oils. Japanese authorities have indicated their concern at the possible inflow of large quantities of such products. It would therefore appear that the actual size of the market in Japan for these products will be determined by other than purely commercial factors and it is therefore impossible to estimate the size of the market at this time with any degree of accuracy. 
I understand that New Zealand has prepared some samples of these products, but I am not aware of any commercial shipments made to Japan by New Zealand. 
The possible export to Japan of a combined butter fat/vegetable oil mixture described as shortenings for use in the manufacture of foodstuffs has been the subject of discussions between the Australian Dairy Produce Board and commercial interests. The Department of Trade has arranged a series of Food Missions to Japan over the past 12 months. These Missions consisted of leading Australian food processors, some of whom have closely examined the Japanese market potential for these products. 
See (3) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 Official statistics do not provide any further breakdown of this figure. However, it is understood that the bulk of these imports consisted of grapefruit juice. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Tariff Board report on the Australian shipbuilding industry was forwarded to me by the  Chairman  of the Board on 12lh July 1971. The Government will release the report with the minimum of delay, consistent with a full and careful study of all aspects of the Board's findings. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) My remarks were in general terms, having in mind the time it has taken to complete the range of studies being co-ordinated by the Committee, some of which were carried out by the Commonwealth and some by the States. Details of these studies were given to the honourable member in answer to Question No. 3117 (Hansard, 6th May 1971, page 2866). I would point out however, that on the occasion referred to by the honourable member I went on to state: 'I think there have been difficulties in having common interests, as to how they ought to pursue decentralisation, and I am sure that in the future we are going to  see  more activity'. 
Handicapped Persons: Interdepartmental Committee  (Question No. 4758)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
On what dates have reports been made by the interdepartmental committee established to make a survey of handicapped children and the facilities available for their use (Hansard, 28th September 1971, page 1602, and 11th November 1971, page 3440). 
When will the reports be presented to the House. 
What consideration has his Department given to the recommendation on physically and mentally handicapped persons by the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs in its report tabled on 2nd June and by the Senate Standing Committee on Mentally and Physically Handicapped Persons in its report tabled on Sth May 1971 (Hansard, 7th September 1971, page 887 and 28th October 1971, page 2792). 
 First of all I want to clear up something that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said in reference to a statement of mine. It was not a misrepresentation of a statement of mine that he made but a deliberate untruth when he said I applauded the increase in steel prices by Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd. 
I do not care what the words were but if you quote what was in the newspapers you will see that I said it was unfortunate and regrettable that BHP had to increase its prices but I could understand why, because of the extravagant wage increases and the industrial unrest which had occurred in this country during the past 12 months. If the Leader of the Opposition is going to put into the ears of the Australian public something which is completely untrue then he does not deserve the respect or the dignity of anybody. 
Did I use the word applaud*? No. 
It is true that Broken Hill Proprietary Co Ltd. is one of Australia's great companies and one of its most efficient and that it can compete with most other iron and steel making companies around the world. The great bulk of the prices that the company charges would be cheaper than those prevailing in most of the major industrial nations, although not in all of them. There are many specialty lines for which, because of a small volume throughput, BHP's costs are a little higher than those in, say, Japan or the United States of America and for this reason the company needs an element of protection. However, to talk about using the tariff as a device for controlling prices is to show a lack of understanding of our tariff protection mechanism. Tariffs are determined after careful examination, and mature judgment is given to the recommendations of the Tariff Board. I would hate to depart from that system to a system under which members of Parliament determine what the rate of protection should be. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Total imports of wine into Australia for the years 1967-68 to 1970-71 (inclusive) were 1,716,332 gallons. 
No. The Annual reports of the Australian Wine Board state that vintages over the past 4 years have been at record or very high levels and that in most, if not in all years, all grapes available to wine-makers were processed. 
Countries from which wine imports originated and the quantities involved for 1970-71 are shown below. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Incentives, which apply lo overseas and local investors, include: - a special depreciation allowance on plant and machinery, buildings for employee accommodation, new farm buildings, and on certain facilities in holds of 20 per cent which may be .spread over 4 or 5 years. - a special depreciation allowance for meat processing companies on cold storage facilities and buildings of 20 per cent over 4 years in cases where the company is exporting - an investment allowance on plant and machinery used in manufacturing, for farming or agricultural purposes, and for fishing of 10 per cent in the first y,ear of the plant's use - a special investment allowance for redevelopment projects in the West Coast region of the South Island. The allowance is 
10 per cent for plant or machinery installed or acquired after June 1966 and before June 1969 otherwise it is 20 per cent 
20 per cent in the case of buildings or extensions to buildings 
The allowance applies to 
new plant, machinery and buildings bought, installed or extended since July 1963 
second hand equipment or buildings acquired since April 1964 - a special depreciation allowance on buildings for approved tourist accommodation projects of 20 per cent over 4 years. 
Taking account of both State and Commonwealth measures the range of incentives in the two countries would be broadly comparable. Commonwealth measures affecting the establishment and development of industry in Australia include tariff protection and taxation and o:her incentives to promote exports and to assist efficiency and productivity, and to assist technological advancement and creativity in industry. Also, financial assistance is available through institutions such as the Commonweath Development Bank, the Australian Resources Development Bank and the Australian Industries Development Corporation. In addition to Commonwealth assistance each Stile hr.s its own policies of assistance to industries established or wishing to establish within its territory. 
See (2). 
The comparison is not unfavourable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician advises that for the years 1966-67 to 1970-71, total freight payable overseas on imports is estimated at SI, 854m, the cost in each year being as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Import clearances of canned corned beef have been recorded separately since 27th January 197!. Over the period ;7th January 1971 to end of September 1971, imports of canned corned beef totalled 92.838 lb of which Argentina supplied 36,000 lb. No imports from Paraguay were recorded during the period 
Tariff rates of 10 per cent and S0.05 per lb apply lo imports of canned corned beef from non-preferential tariff countries such as Argentina and Paraguay These duties a'e friended to protect the local industry from damaging import compel lion. Imports of tinned corned beef for the period represent less than I per cent of local production. 
The importation of tinned beef in:o Australia from all countries excepting New Zealand (which has a sim:la. disease status to Australia! is completely prohibited unless the product is contained In hermetically scaled cans and accompanied by a health certificate which must sta:e that the product has been heated lo a temperature of a least 100 C throughout the contents of 'he can. This treatment is sufficient lo destroy ibc agents of exotic diseases, and ensures that imports do nol present a disease risk to Australian livestock industries. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Soviet Government has requested permission of the Australian Government to establish a trade office in Sydney. The Government has agreed to this request. The Soviet Office will tak? the form of a Consulate. 
The reasons given by the Soviet Government are that it is anxious to increase its exports to Australia in order to improve an adverse trade balance and that Sydney is an important commercial centre where the USSR already has substantial trading interests. 
The Government believes that Australia derives very considerable benefit from trading with all countries on a multilateral basis and within the framework of mutual commercial advantage. Our pursuit of economic growth requires a constantly improving export performance by Australia to pay for our rising import requirements. The Soviet Union is a valued customer for Australian primary products and non-strategic goods generally, having consistently purchased large quantities of wool from Australia and, at various times, of wheat and meat. In 1970-71 Australia exported to the USSR goods worth $A62.7m, against imports from the USSR valued at only $A2.2m. As a manifestation of our growing interest in the Soviet market Australia is at present in the process of establishing a Trade Commissioner Post in Moscow. 
International Maritime Consultative Organisation (Question No. 4925)  Mr Enderby  asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
How many, conferences or conventions have been held by the International Maritime Consultative Organisation on Safety of Life at Sea. 
Which countries participated in each case. 
Was any agreement reached in these conventions. 
If so, which countries signed the agreements on safety of life at sea. 
Can he say which countries are enforcing these agreements. 
Did Australia ratify or accept any agreement on the safety of life at sea; if not, why not. 
If Australia did ratify or accept an agreement, is it being enforced. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
<para pgwide="yes">The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the attached table in reply to the honourable member's question. 
The policy about which members of the Opposition are talking sounds a somewhat confused one. What the Tariff Board now does is ascertain the efficiency of an Australian industry to determine whether it is economic. It is only natural that the prices and the profitability of the company will be taken into account Rigid pricing controls are not necessary for the Tariff Board to be able to determine the level of protection that is needed for an industry. The Board can do this in the normal play of economic forces. The performance of a company or firms over a period of time allows the Board to make an assessment of the level of protection necessary, and it then makes a recommendation to the Government. 
The suggestions that I have heard coming from the Opposition that it will use the carrot and stick tariff policy are to be deplored. If, for some reason, a company were charging a price higher than that which the Labor Party thought was reasonable or if that company's profitability were higher than what the Labor Party thought was reasonable, then the Labor Party would use the big stick; it would tune down tariffs. This policy would have very grave consequences, and I should like to know how the Labor Party would put it into practice. When protection is being determined for an industry many companies could be involved. If one company had a higher rate of efficiency and therefore a higher rate of profitability, the Labor Party would select that company to the disadvantage of the other companies. The Labor Party would discriminate. It would be government by favour and grace by the parliamentarians in control. I think this is a shocking suggestion. We have in Australia a tariff system which has given confidence to industry and to the employees in industry? It is quite obvious, when the members of the Labor Party start to talk about price control and the use of tariffs, that they get carried away with their own rhetoric. They have not thought this proposal though. It is ill conceived and I think is an absurd idea. 
The present understanding is that we will be on a quota arrangement with the United States, but as yet the quota has not been announced. There were negotiations and, during the course of these negotiations, we were given a slight increase in the quota. I asked that there be further discussions, hoping that there would be a further increase in the quota. This happened at about the end of last December. In the course of time other events seem to have overtaken the negotiations in Washington. There seems to be general concern about the increasing prices of meat in the United States and the Administration now is looking at the possibility of increasing quotas more than was originally expected. I am not in a position to say what will be the eventual outcome of this re-examination, but I am hopeful that within the next week or so I shall be able to announce it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible to identify those Australian footwear factories which are owned or controlled overseas by firms or companies which also own or control footwear factories in Hong Kong, Japan, Taiwan and Korea because of the lack of information on the international operations of the overseas parents of Australian companies. However, figures published by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics show that in 1966-67, the latest year for which figures are available, of the 386 boot and shoe factories in Australia, 16 (or 4.1 per cent) were controlled by overseas firms or companies. These 16 factories accounted for $12,013,000 (or 18.2 per cent) of the value of production of footwear factories for that year. 
The specific information requested on imports is not available. In this connection however it is considered that the Tariff Board report on Footwear with Non-leather Uppers of 8th April 1970 is relevant. In its report the Board commented that 'local producers should be further assisted to readjust to the changing circumstances of the industry and its market. In the process more will doubtless consider whether they should follow the lead of those which have already decided to import lines which if manufactured locally would bo subject to strong and direct import competition. Products concerned would be mainly the relatively low priced standard items where brand image and quality cannot so readily overcome price disadvantages'. 
There is no evidence to indicate a deterioration in the quality of locally manufactured footwear. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has Trade Commissioners located in some 20 non-English speaking countries. These countries are listed in the attached table which also indicates the number of Trade Commissioners in these countries, their competence in the language in use and the numbers of those competent  in  other foreign languages. 
There are 49 Trade Commissioners and Assistant Trade Commissioners currently located  in  foreign-language-speaking countries, of whom 23 are able to communicate in the language of their host country. Six of these are in receipt of proficiency allowances. There are 24 other Trade Commissioners and Assistant Trade Commissioners currently learning to speak the local language. Of the 49 officers, 14 have competence  in  other foreign languages, of whom four are being paid proficiency allowances. 
In addition, there are 101 Trade Commissioners located in English-speaking countries, including Australia, of whom 22 are able to speak a foreign language with some degree of competence. Two of these are in receipt of proficiency allowances. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (!) Action to reduce wasteful design, accelerated obsolescence or impaired recycling of raw materials in secondary industry is primarily the responsibility of individual manufacturing enterprises. 
It is pleasing to note that Australian industry is actively involved in solving the problems created by these particular issues. 
The Government's policy is to encourage industry to be aware of these problems and provide general assistance as a back up to the company operation. 
The Commonwealth is closely associated with, and provides financial assistance to such bodies as the CSIRO, the Standards Association of Australia, the Industrial Design Council of Australia which are directly concerned with encouraging and assisting increased technological efficiency in Australian industry. 
Stale Governments have recently taken measures to cope with problems associated with the disposal of waste products. 
The Government does not have plans for a joint Commonwealth-State investigation into the aspects raised in the second part of the honourable member's question. 1 am advised that the question of rust and corrosion of motor vehicles has been considered by the Australian Transport Advisory Council, which recommended that no legislative action was required. 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council comprising Commonwealth and State Ministers has considered the question of tyres for passenger cars and has directed its Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design to prepare, as a matter of urgency, an Australian Design Rule for tyres. In this regard I refer the honourable member also to the answer given by the Minister for Shipping and Transport in Hansard of 13th September 1971 in reply to Parliamentary Question No. 3508. 
It is true that we are establishing a trade commissioner post in Moscow. Moscow is selected because, as honourable members possibly would know- 
Opposition members - Oh! 
I have not seen the report to which the honourable member referred. I can well understand his concern that these surplus eggs might be dumped when there are people who need egg pulp in countries such as India and Pakistan. I promise him that I will look into the matter to see what can be done to ensure that these surplus eggs are used in the most efficient manner. 
This term came to my notice only a few weeks ago when the Leader of the Opposition used it on a television programme. I think the term 'carrot and the stick' mainly is used for catching rabbi's but in tariff parlance, I think he was using it to demonstrate that tariffs could be used as a means of controlling prices. To use tariffs for the short term measure of controlling prices is to show a lack of knowledge of the essential features of tariff making. Basically, tariffs are a long term measure. They are directed towards the development of economic and efficient industry in the country and to determine the rate of tariffs we have established an institution - the Tariff Board - which conducts a thorough public inquiry into the rate of tariff protection to be provided. Often, these inquiries can take a long time. It is important to realise that once the rate has been recommended and the Government accepts it, industry can then develop behind that tariff protection with a fair degree of assurance and know that its position will not be jeopardised by political decisions or the whims of the moment, to which the Leader of the Opposition is apparently referring in regard to using this carrot and the stick' method. I would say that if this were to apply it would completely undermine the standing and integrity of the Tariff Board and its operation. I would think that instead of catching a rabbit the Leader of the Opposition is trying to make a bunny of the Australian public. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The attached table lists the 49 cities of the world in which Trade Commissioners were located as at 1st February 1972. 
See attached table. The Department of Trade and Industry conducts regular reviews of its overseas representational requirements and specific staffing proposals are submitted to Cabinet for approval from time to time. A review is under way at present and recommendations relating to future staffing needs will be considered by Cabinet during the course of the year. 
The basic duties of Trade Commissioners are to represent Australia's trade and commercial interests abroad; to promote sales of Australian goods in overseas markets in liaison with Australian exporters; to provide advice on economic. industrial and agricultural developments in their respective areas; and to engage in international trade negotiations as appropriate. 
(a) A new Trade Commissioner Post will be established in Moscow in March 1972. 
See answer to (2) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government established the AIDC as a body set apart from Government with the intention that it conduct its affairs for all practical purposes as if it were a private enterprise company and with the confidentiality of its commercial affairs respected in the normal way. It would not, therefore, be appropriate for me to seek or to make public the information you have requested. It must be left to the judgment of the AIDC what detailed information it publishes regarding its commercial transactions. 
See (1) above. 
See (1) above. 
1 cannot say that I have ever invoked it. 1 certainly refer to the Tariff Board matters for examination, on 2 grounds. The first is when an industry has been before me seeking greater protection, and the matter has been sent to the Tariff Board for re-examination. The second is when people have been before the Department and put up a case that the existing tariffs are too high, and these have been referred to the Tariff Board. This has not involved my initiative or intervention. It has been action taken on the initiative of somebody else. I do not know of any particular case in which the Government has directed the Minister to move in and ask for a particular examination. What we have said, as Government policy, is that there should now be a progressive review of the tariff. Honourable members will recall that I made a policy statement, about this time last year, that for the first time since 1929  -  a period of about 40 years - a major innovation was brought about whereby the Tariff Board itself made a recommendation to the Government about which areas of the tariff ought to be examined, without the initiative coming from those who wanted more protection or less protection. 
As a result of that decision we have referred to the Tariff Board parts of chapter 84 of the tariff. This chapter deals with a wide range of machinery. We will be referring to the Tariff Board questions relating to the manufacture of metals. Many of these have not been examined for a long time or have never been examined. So this is a major step forward in examining the level of protection. I would not like to see the Government decide just on its own initiative that protection was too high in one area. I think there ought to be complaints from somebody to attract Government action. If the Leader of the Opposition is trying to find reasons for justifying Labor's new policy, that it is going to have selective cuts in tariffs because it appears that in one section prices might bc too high or unjustified, then this is a major policy change. 
In his answer on television when he used his famous phrase about the carrot and the stick, he was not suggesting that the matter should be referred back to the Tariff Board. He was implying that the Government would take immediate action because if it were to be referred back to the Tariff Board it could require a very lengthy period before a decision was made. The Leader of the Opposition was not implying that decisions were going to take 6 months, 12 months or maybe 2 or 3 years. He is going to act immediately by using the big stick. It was the Labor Party's doctrinaire policy coming to the surface again. Its members play their doctrinaire policies very quietly before an election but we know that underneath their socialistic tendencies still prevail and this became quite obvious when we got into this question of price control and the use of selective tariffs to make price control work. 
Certain representations have been made to me expressing concern about developments in the textile industry in Australia due to the level of imports. There has been some concern too, about the Government's decision in relation to a Tariff Board report wherein we stated that after a period of 18 months the present quantitative restrictions applying on knitted shirts and outer garments would be lifted but in the meantime I would endeavour to try to arrange with certain countries voluntary restraints on imports into Australia. This is proceeding, and I am encouraged by the progress that has been made. There has been concern, too, at the classification of certain articles which are coming in under a different grouping and so avoiding some of the tariff levels. I believe that my ministerial colleague the Minister for Customs and Excise has examined this matter and that there has been some re-examination of and alteration to the classifications, mainly in the area of knitted blouses I believe, which should overcome the concern. 1 do not recall having had any requests or heard of any concern about the carpet industry. Recently I opened a factory at Granville in New South Wales. I was pleased to learn that that carpet factory was exporting quite large quantities to Japan. So that particular firm is doing reasonably well with its exports, though perhaps other carpet firms are having trouble with imports. However, I will have a look at the aspect of carpets and see what the situation is. I would like to assure the textile industry that if there is a major problem with dumping there are ways and means by which the Government can take action - quick action - and if there are unfair competition and threats to the Australian textile industry there are ways and means by which the Government can examine and make suggestions as to how these problems may be overcome. I have the matter in hand and I have told the industry to come and see me if it is unduly concerned. 
I am not aware of the fact but I can understand that it might be cheaper for that company to import steel than to put a special line through its plants here. Because a specialty product is required it may not pay -the company to run a small volume through its plants. So it is rationalising and importing the product when it is cheaper than producing it in Australia. 
The United States of America is an important market for our lamb, taking something like 30 per cent of the exports. This market has developed mainly in the last 4 years. Its value has increased from something less than $lm in 1967 to $8.5m now. I think the growth of that market will depend largely upon effective promotion. There is a joint promotion arrangement between the Australian Meat Board, producers in New Zealand and the United States and I am sure that this will lead to continuing and increasing sales in the United States. With respect to Canada, the northern neighbour of the United States, we have been doing quite well on that market, although sales declined last year. I am optimistic that this year and in future years, as promotion gets under way, we will do better on that market also. 
Mcmahon ministry 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The non-discriminatory most-favoured-nation rate of duty imposed by the United States on apparel wools  is  25.5 US cents per pound clean content. The duty was last reduced, from 34 US cents per pound,  in  1947, following a round of tariff negotiations under the General Agreement on Tariffs  and  Trade. 
and (3) The purpose of my recent visit to Geneva was to attend the 27th Session of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. This was not a tariff negotiating session and there was therefore no opportunity of negotiating on wool or any other products on that occasion. 
Since 1947 Australia has made vigorous efforts directed towards achieving a reduction or elimination of the United States wool duty. The matter was under negotiation, for example, during the Kennedy Round of GATT tariff negotiations which concluded in 1967 but the United States wasnot prepared in the final outcome to reduce the tariff on wool imports. Since that time, every possible opportunity has been taken at the highest levels to explore the scope for re-opening negotiations, the most recent representations being at Ministerial level in Washington last year. 
During visits to Washington, the Prime Minister, the Treasurer and I stressed to the United States Government the serious position of the Australian wool industry and the depressing effect of the United States import duty on our wool sales. We have also pointed out that, in our view, the duty has not helped the United States wool industry but, on the contrary, has actually contributed to the development of synthetic substitutes. 
A particular difficulty at present, however, is that the United States Administration has no mandate from Congress to negotiate on the level of tariffs. A further major obstacle to the reduction of the wool duty is that, arising from United States commitments under the GATT, the duty on raw wool is linked with the duties on wool textiles. Thus, any reduction in the duty on wool must be accompanied by a reduction of the tariff on woollen textiles. 
As the question of competition from imported textiles is an extremely sensitive issue in the United States, there seems little immediate possibility that Congress would approve legislation which would result in a duty reduction on textile imports. 
I am confident, however, that, as a result of our representations, the United States authorities are aware of the problems caused for the Australian wool industry by the United States duty on wool. Furthermore, I can assure the honourable member that the Government will continue to take every opportunity to press the United States for a reduction in the import duty on wool. 
It is true that the honourable member for Wilmot made representations to me expressing his concern for the blue pea industry in Tasmania and drawing attention to the threat to the industry from imports from New Zealand. All I want to say is that it is true that the New Zealanders can land blue peas in Sydney at a cheaper price but there is a preference by processors to use the Tasmanian blue pea because of its better quality. Following receipt of his representations I expected that the bean and pea panel which met at the beginning of this month also might have been concerned because that is the proper place in which to bring up this matter. It was not raised there. If the industry is still very concerned about the matter I suggest that it refer it to the panel and my Department then will act on the recommendation of the panel and take whatever action is necessary to correct the situation. 
The honourable member first asked why the publication has not been distributed to honourable members. I am sorry that I was not aware of its circulation. It is certainly available to all members and I will see that all members get a copy of it. Yesterday I noticed a report in the Press criticising my Department for making the publication available free. The report said that a charge of at least $10 should have been made because it is a high quality publication and a good deal of work has gone into it. It is made available free because its compilation required the co-operation of many companies - a hundred or so - and we felt that those companies who participated in supplying the detailed information required should receive a copy without any onus of cost. The honourable member's other questions require detailed answers. I will be pleased to supply those answers. 
The Australian Wool Board has had a long interest in freight rates charged for transporting wool, particularly in relation to wool carried by the conference lines. It has been involved in discussions and negotiations with ship owners, the British Wool Federation and Interlaine. I believe that the Board's intervention in this matter has been of great importance to the Australian wool industry and that it has assisted in keeping freight rates down. At the moment considerable interest is being shown by the Wool Board in the question of bulk handling of wool. This is as surface cargo on top of other bulk cargoes, mainly in the form of steel billets and mineral sands. The firms which have had trial shipments in handling wool in this manner believe that they can provide a fairly regular service for Australia at a cheaper rate than the present freight rates. However, there is  still a lot of  investigation needed in order to assess the full economics of this form of handling wool. The point I would like to make to the House is that this Government believes that there is a tremendous advantage - a national interest advantage - in having the conference lines. The most important point is that we are assured of regular shipping services to many ports of Australia and to many other ports of destination and also that a variety of cargoes can be carried by the conference lines. If it were decided to move wool outside the conference lines, it could seriously interfere with or disrupt our existing services to other industries. Therefore the matter must be examined very carefully before consideration is given to making a major change. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Commonwealth Statistician has advised that imports of frozen chickens are included in the item 'Poultry, Fresh, Chilled or Frozen, Killed or Dressed (including offals except liver)'. Imports for this item were 667 lb in the period July to December 1971. No imports from Canada were recorded. 
The Commonwealth Statistician has advised that confidentiality provisions of the Census and Statistics Act preclude him from supplying names of individual importers while information regarding the destination of imports (retail and restaurant trade) is not available. 
by leave - I wish to inform honourable members that the Government has decided to take certain action which will speed up the progressive review of the tariff and assist the Government in preparing for international tariff negotations which are due to take place in the near future. The Government has decided that the Tariff Board Act should be amended to enable the Tariff Board to comprise 1 1 instead of the present 9 members. This would permit 3 2-member divisions of the Board to operate continuously on the progressive review of the tariff and would enable it to be completed in a much shorter time. 
Under the proposed new arrangements it is envisaged that the work of the Tariff Board be arranged in the following manner: 3 2-member divisions of the Board to be employed full time on review references; 2 2-member divisions to handle the normal tariff revision inquiries; and one member divisions to handle the normal non-tariff revision inquiries. 
The House will be aware that last .'ear the Government increased the membership of the Board from 8 to 9 and provided for single-member divisions of the Board to handle certain types of cases. However, even with the additional flexibility made possible by these changes, it has become apparent that unless further steps are taken the review is unlikely to be completed for many years. The Government has therefore given consideration to ways of completing the task more quickly, and, following discussions, the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board has submitted the present proposal which he considers should enable the Board to complete the review in 6 years. The Government has accepted this time scale for the review and will introduce appropriate legislation to amend the Tariff Board Act during the present session. 
I wish to announce also that I will shortly be asking the Tariff Board to examine and report on tariff items where the margins between general and preferential rates of duty are greater than are required under our preferential trade agreements, particularly with the United Kingdom. The reference is expected to cover some 1,000 items of the tariff and a report will be requested by the end of 1972. This report should be valuable for both domestic and international reasons. On the international side, there will be comprehensive multilateral trade negotiations in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade beginning in 1973, which will give Australia the opportunity to pursue our trade objectives with the enlarged European Economic Community, the United States, Japan and others. In this connection, the termination of the United Kingdom/ Australia Trade Agreement, consequent upon Britain joining the EEC, should help us in making reciprocal concessions in the Australian Tariff. 
On the domestic side, the Tariff Board's report will be valuable in enabling the Government to make an assessment of the scope for early action to achieve cost savings in the domestic economy without causing injury to Australian industry. This interim report from the Tariff Board will not prejudice the tariff review which it is undertaking. The proposals I have just outlined should serve to emphasise our concern with the problem of rising costs and prices. Honourable members will appreciate that these proposals should be considered in conjunction with the measures announced last night by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  I present the following paper: 
Progressive Review of the Tariff - Ministerial Statement, 12th April 1972. 
Motion (by  Mr Chipp)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Government does not provide direct incentives for the purpose of influencing company decisions relating to the rate of obsolescence in consumer durables. The quality and durability of a product is the responsibility of the manufacturing enterprise concerned and the sales success of its product will be determined by market forces not only operating within Australia but in the light of marketing developments occurring overseas and should generally reflect the quality of his product. The Government does however encourage manufacturers to improve their products for the benefit of Australian consumers by providing financial assistance in such areas as research and development, scientific research, industrial design and standards. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The United States Federal Maritime Commission (FMC) has certain powers to regulate carriers by water engaged in the foreign and interstate commerce of the United States under the provisions of the United States Shipping Act, 1916. 
Section 18 (b) of the Act relates to the obligations of carriers engaged in foreign commerce and the powers of the Commission in regard to freight rates. 
Section 18(b)(1) requires that every common carrier and every Conference shall file with the Commission and keep open to public inspection tariffs showing all rates and charges for transportation to and from United States ports and foreign ports. The requirements of this section are not applicable to cargo loaded or carried in bulk without mark or count. 
Section 18 (b) (1) provides that no change shall be made in rates nor shall any new rate be instituted except by publication and filing as outlined above. Such change will become effective not earlier than 30 days after publication and filing with the Commission. In the case of Conference agreements which provide for 'dual rate' contracts rate increases shall become effective after 90 days' notification. 
Section 18 (b) (3) provides that common carriers must charge only those rates which are specified in their tariffs as filed with the Commission. 
Section 18(b)(4) provides that the Federal Maritime Commission is authorised to reject any tariff which is not in conformity with FMC regulations for publication and filing. 
Section 18 (b) (5) provides that the Commission shall disapprove any rate or charge filed by a common carrier or conference of carriers which, afterhearing, it finds to be so unreasonably high or low as to be detrimental to the commerce of the United States. 
Section 18 (b) (6) provides that where the provisions outlined above are violated the carrier(s) concerned are liable to a penalty of not more than $US 1,000 for each day such violation continues, to be recovered by the United States in a civil action. 
The . honourable member's remarks are correct. There were discussions with the New South Wales Government, which 3 Commonwealth Ministers attended, on the possibility of setting up a world trade centre in Sydney. The suggestion was that a centre should be developed in the Pyrmont area by private developers. The New South Wales Stale Government wanted Commonwealth officers of the Department of Trade and Industry, the Department of Customs and Excise and the Department of the Interior to occupy the building so that all these people would be within the one area. Unfortunately there has been some difference of opinion about (he project among Commonwealth departments. 
Firstly, my own departmental officers who have had an opportunity to study these types of centres throughout the world have some doubts as to whether such a centre would be advantageous to the Department. They are not against the proposal, but expense is involved. Secondly, at the moment we have a programme to build new Commonwealth offices at Wooloomooloo to be occupied by officers of the Department of Customs and Excise. If we were to have a change of programme the construction of those offices would have to be deferred. There is some difference of opinion about deferring that programme when we have been in dire need of additional Commonwealth office accommodation in Sydney. My own Department does not want to move out of the central area of Sydney in which it does most of its business with business people. At the same time, although this has nothing to do with the issue, there has been some talk of establishing a trade centre in Melbourne. Basically trade centres have been run by private companies and other private concerns, although they have had the support of governments in countries they represent. I am afraid that I am not in a position to give a firm answer about the Sydney project because of the complications I have mentioned, but if private enterprise wanted to go ahead with such a proposal, using computers to collect information from other countries and making it available to importers and exporters,  1  would be quite happy to see this occur. 
I am very much aware of this problem of the Renold factory at Benalla which produces small pitch precision transmission chain. I am aware of this because 1 recall that when the Tariff Board report on this item came to us the Government had to make a difficult decision, recognising that one of the factories which probably would be affected was this factory at Benalla. It was the major industry in the town. We recognised that it was a decentralised industry which gave employment to a lot of people. 
The Tariff Board recommended, and the Government accepted, that there be a 10 per cent reduction in duty, both in the general tariff and the preferential tariff. The Government made the decision because the Tariff Board in its report said that the production of this factory tended to be uneconomic and bad a cost disadvantage against it compared with overseas producers because it was not using the same degree of modern automatic equipment as its competitors were in other countries, and that it should upgrade its techniques and equipment if it was to remain competitive. This was what the Tariff Board said and the Government acted according to its recommendation. 
I have had many representations on this matter, particularly from the Minister for Repatriation, who arranged for the Mayor of Benalla and Australian officials of the Renold company to come to see me and talk about the problem that exists there. I asked my ministerial colleague, the Minister for Shipping and Transport, to see senior executives of the company while he has in England and to ascertain from them what their approach to the problem might be. In the meantime the Department of Trade and Industry has been conferring to see whether some assistance might be given to this company, but in the first place we have to get information from this company. I believe that information is being compiled at the moment and when that information is received I will be able to examine the matter further. 
I move: 
That the Bill be  now read  a  second  time 
This Bill, to extend and amend the provisions of the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act 1967, was foreshadowed by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in the House of Representatives on 1st March 1972 when announcing the extension of the Government's incentive provided under the current scheme for a further 5-year period from July of this year. The purpose of the legislation introduced in 1967 was to provide an incentive that would induce Australian manufacturing and mining companies to allocate more of their own funds to industrial research and development activities as a means of improving products and processes. This remains the objective behind the provisions and amendments which the Government is now introducing. 
The ability of Australian industry to comptete with overseas producers, both in Australian and world markets, depends to a considerable degree on achieving a high level of research and development, bringing with it not only new products and processes but a build-up over time of a higher technological capability and capacity throughout Australian industry. The arrangements, introduced in 1967, are administered by the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board. They operate by providing grants to Aus tralian industrial and mining companies which increased their expenditures on research and development salaries and contracts between a particular year - the grant year - and a fixed base year - 1965-66. In addition, the actual net cost of plant and equipment purchased in the grant year is also eleigible for grant, but with the provision that at no time would a grant be approved in respect of net plant expenditure which would result in the cumulative grants for plant expenditure exceeding the cumulative grants given for salary and contract expenditure. 
The Act contains some broad rules which companies must comply with before they become eligible for a grant. A company must be incorporated in Australia and carrying out manufacturing or mining operations. Research and development operations must be performed by professionally qualified persons or by persons working in direct assistance to a qualified person. One reason why the scheme has worked well is that it contains a minimum of administrative requirements and obligations. 
There is no doubt that the present Act has attained a good deal of success, and a significant portion of increased industrial research and development by companies over the past few years must be attributed to the incentive. The Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board states in its Fourth Annual Report that, of the 808 companies which had received grants by June 1971, 54 per cent (440) did not perform any industrial research and development in the base year 1965-66. The Board earlier estimated that there had been an increase of 64 per cent in the number of full time professionally qualified persons engaged on industrial research and development between 1965-66 and 1968-69. 
However, recent examination has shown that there are many more companies with a technical capacity that are still not undertaking research and development and there is still scope for others to lift the level of their research activities. A recent official survey shows that of some 13,000 manufacturing and mining companies approached, only 1,320 replied that they had incurred any industrial research and development expenditure in 1968-69 and only 546 companies qualified for a grant in respect of that year. 
The Government has decided that a broad incentive along existing lines should continue with, as at present, general grants for increases in eligible expenditure up to $50,000 and selective grants for eligible expenditure over $50,000. At present the general rate of grant is 35 per cent. The Government has announced that the general rate of grant for the first year of the extended scheme, 1972-73, will be increased to 50 per cent, lt is proposed that in future the general rate will be announced at least 6 months before the commencement of the relevant grant year. As al present, rates for selective grants will be determined by the Grants Board in accordance with national interest criteria specified in the Act, and having regard to the total funds available. 
In the light of experience of the existing scheme the Government has decided on a number of changes affecting the operation and administration of the system to ensure the continued effectiveness of the incentive. Changes proposed by the Government, which I will shortly outline in more detail, affect principally the base period provisions, the range of items eligible for grant, the treatment of salaries and wages of employees engaged for part of the year on industrial research and development, the treatment of plant expenditure, and conditions governing eligibility of companies for grants, as well as a number of amendments of an administrative nature designed to strengthen and clarify certain areas of the Act's operation. 
The base period under present provisions is the financial year 1965-66. A fixed period has a number of disadvantages. A company, for example, may happen to have had an abnormally high level of expenditure in that particular year. Also a fixed base can eventually become so remote from the grant year that the incentive for companies to continue to increase their industrial research and development effort is no longer effective. 
The Government therefore proposes a base period of 3 consecutive years. Base expenditure will then be calculated by taking one-third of the aggregate expenditure in the base period. This will average year-to-year fluctuations in expenditure. In addition, there will be a moving base maintaining constantly a clear gap of one year between the grant year and the end of the base period. This will provide a continuing incentive for companies to increase the level of their industrial research and development expenditures year by year. Allied to this will be removal of the socalled 'inflation adjustment' by which, under section 29 of the current Act, the Board is required to reduce a company's eligible expenditure by, in effect, notionally increasing the research and development salaries and wages paid by the company in the base year in line with increases in salary and wage levels between the base year ind the grant year. 
Items of expenditure which qualify under the present Act are salaries and wages of personnel employed essentially full-time on industrial research and development for the whole of the year; contract work for a firm undertaken by an approved research organisation, and allowable plant expenditure. The restriction of expenditure allowable under the present Act to these items has given rise to some inequality of treatment between companies which conduct industrial research and development work in their own plants and those which have industrial research and development performed for them by an approved research organisation. The Government therefore proposes to allow a much wider coverage of in-company items of expenditure. This will largely or completely eliminate any existing advantage that contract work may have over incompany work under the present legislation. 
Provision will therefore be made to prescribe by regulation a consolidated list of allowable items of expenditure incorporating both existing and proposed new items. This list will include the following: Salaries and wages of industrial research and development employees including, as specified, those employed for part of the year: administrative salaries and fees; provisions for superannuation, long service leave and workers' compensation; travel; hired staff; materials; technical information and reference services; plant including pilot and prototypes; repairs and maintenance work on plant; rent and leasing charges for the use of buildings, including notional charges where the buildings are owner-occupied; printing, stationery and general supplies; cleaning costs; telephone rentals and charges; light, power and water; computer charges; insurance; and contract expenditure. 
The proposed inclusions do not affect, of course, the basic intention of the scheme to allow for grant purposes only those costs clearly identifiable with industrial research and development activities which involve systematic experimentation or analysis in the fields of science, engineering or technology. Furthermore, the allowance of these items would be subject to compliance with all the other requirements of the Act, for example, satisfactory records of expenditure and professional qualifications. 
In the present Act only the salaries or wages of employees working essentially full-time on industrial research and development who are themselves professionally qualified persons or who work in direct technical assistance to such a person may qualify as salary expenditure in grant years. In many cases, however, even for large companies, the most efficient use of highly qualified people involves their use from time to time on activities other than research and development. Moreover, for many small companies, especially in industries where seasonal factors operate, industrial research and development performed for part of a year could be a necessary transitional stage before undertaking such work on a full time basis. Under the amended arrangements it is proposed that periods of employment on industrial research and development of not less than 4 consecutive working weeks will qualify for grant purposes. Other costs, for example involving materials, technical information services and repairs to plant and equipment, are important areas of industrial research and development expenditure and their inclusion will be of substantial value to a wide range of companies. 
Because the basic objective of the legislation is to provide Australian companies with an incentive to increase their research and development effort, the expenditure eligible for grant is, in the main, the increase in expenditure between the base period and the grant year. There is, how- ever an important exception, that is, expenditure on plant and equipment. Plant by its nature warrants special treatment. A significant part of total expenditure on plant incurred in research and development is spent on the construction of prototypes and pilot plants. The Government recognises that this type of expenditure is absolutely essentia] to the successful conclusion of much of the most important research and development work carried out in industry. It is in many cases the essential link between laboratory research and industrial application. However, the high cost involved can easily be a strong deterrent to Australian companies with limited financial resources. Acknowledging the key importance of this type of expenditure the Government proposes that all net expenditure on pilot plant and prototypes incurred in the grant year be eligible for grant purposes. 
This will also ensure that companies will not be penalised for incurring peaks of expenditure from time to time on a pilot plant, or a prototype. The inclusion of sporadic expenditure of this type in the base period could seriously reduce a company's eligibility for grant for several years simply because of the peaking effect of this type of expenditure in a particular year. This could seriously reduce the effectiveness of the scheme. 
Expenditure on plant required for research and development work, other than expenditure on pilot plants and prototypes is, of course, in the main, designed to increase the capacity of the company to carry out research and development. However, to some extent, such expenditure is incurred to maintain existing capacity. It is therefore proposed in principle to treat as eligible expenditure that expenditure on plant, other than pilot plants and prototypes, which represents an increase in the capacity of the company to carry out research and development. The practical basis which it is proposed should be adopted for the application of this principle is to allow total expenditure incurred on such plant in the grant year less depreciation at 10 per cent on the value of such plant on hand at the beginning of the grant year. 
Experience with the current Act has brought to light some areas where improvements of a lesser or administrative nature could be effected in addition to the major matters to which 1 have already referred. It is therefore proposed that a number of amendments be made including a direction to the Grants Board that in certain cases of company takeovers, mergers and re-organisations it should make the necessary adjustments to ensure that the level of eligible expenditure is equitable in terms of the actual industrial research and development activity of the companies concerned. It is proposed that the incentive will extend to manufacturing and mining operations in such areas of the seabed adjacent to Australia as are prescribed. 
Eligibility for grants under the present Act extends only to incorporated companies carrying on in Australia in the relevant grant year the manufacture of goods or mining operations. The Government proposes a number of amendments affecting this provision. One amendment will be to include industrial companies set up under Australian laws which do not confer incorporation. Firms which do not commence manufacturing or mining operations until the year following the relevant research and development will become eligible to qualify for grant. A further amendment will ensure that companies which do not actually perform the manufacturing process themselves but sub-contract the manufacture of goods to other companies may be regarded as eligible for grant purposes. 
Annual reports will in future be made on a financial yearbasis rather than a grant year basis and the Board will be authorised to publish at any time, not just in its annual reports, information regarding the amounts of grants paid to companies by the Board. 
Honourable members will be aware that a requirement of the Industrial Research and Development Act is that for eligibility purposes the employees of a company must either be professionally qualified or be working in direct assistance to a professionally qualified person. This particular provision aims at upgrading industrial research and development standards of work. It is expected that this encouragement for industry to employ more of Australia's professionally trained technical people will help to promote the future development of Australia's technological capability. 
The results to date are most encouraging and, as already mentioned, it is the esti mate of the Grants Board that there had been an increase of 64 per cent in the number of professionally qualified persons engaged on industrial research and development between 1965-66 and 1968-69. Australian industry and the community in general cannot afford to lose too many of its professionally qualified people to other industrialised countries. 
To overcome some of the problems which have arisen in this area, it is proposed to modify the definition regarding professional qualification and allow the Board to accept either suitable qualifications granted by an institution of tertiary or technical education or alternatively, appropriate membership of a professional institute recognised by the Board. However, the Government believes it important to retain a requirement as to professional qualifications. 
Finally, in continuing a broad, flexible and proven incentive with certain modifications, it is the Government's expectation that such encouragement will provide a basic spur to accelerate the development of Australian industrial technology over the next 5 years of the scheme. Indeed, the Government expects that each company which participates in the scheme must be conscious that it has an obligation to contribute to this national objective. It is for this reason that companies will be required under the Act to give an undertaking that they will exploit their industrial research and development on normal commercial terms for the benefit of the Australian economy. 
Because of the increasing importance of Australian industrial research and development the Government intends to remain in close touch with developments in this area with a view to implementing further policies at a future stage that would be in keeping with the needs of industry and the community in general. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Stewart)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill arises from the Government's wish to speed up the progressive review of the Tariff which was initiated by the Government last year. It was foreshadowed in my statement to the House on 12th April 1972, when 1 announced that the Government had decided that the Tariff Board Act should be amended to enable the Tariff Board to comprise 11 instead of the present 9 members. In January of last year, after considering the views expressed by the Tariff Board, the Government decided that there should be a progressive review of the Tariff and one of the major tasks for me since becoming Minister for Trade and Industry has been the setting in train of this review. 
The review commenced in May 1971, when I referred to the Board 10 references covering those items of the 'Machinery' Chapter of the Tariff which were not already under reference. These references were as suggested by the Tariff Board and are to be followed by references in the area of manufactures of metal. It became apparent that with the additional workload, and given the time it takes for the Board to conduct its usual inquiries, it would be many years before the review could be completed by the Board as at present constituted. 
I therefore asked my Department to address itself to the question as to whether fair and equitable procedures could be evolved which would enable the review to be completed in quicker time, without the quality of the reports to the Government being lessened in any material sense and with industry retaining its right to a full opportunity to be heard by the Board. I also sought the views of the  Chairman  of  i  he Tariff Board on this matter and at the same time made it clear that I would value the views any sector of industry might have on it. 
I appreciated that, as well as its importance in connection with the forthcoming international trade negotiations, a proposal from my Department for an 'excess margin* items reference would, in addition, be of value as an interim measure in relation to the review. As honourable members are aware, the reference, which was foreshadowed in my statement to the House on 12th April 1972 and has now been forwarded to the Tariff Board, seeks a report by the end of the year on whether the general tariff rates of duty on over 1,000 items can be reduced. However, on the basis of the examinations by the Department and the Tariff Board it became clear that the only way to complete in a reasonably short period such a massive task as the progressive review - one which had never been undertaken in Australia before - would be to make additional resources available. 
Accordingly the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board submitted to me detailed, proposals which if adopted would, he believed, complete the review by December 1978. In particular, he proposed that 2 additional members be appointed to the Board and that the restriction on the number of public servant members be eased. The present Bill proposes amendments in the Tariff Board Act to give effect to these changes. 
Provision is made for the Board to comprise 11 rather than 9 members as at present. However, to provide for future flexibility, it is proposed that the Act be amended in a way which permits the actual number of Board members to range between 7 and 11 members at any particular time. Thus when the progressive review is completed it would be possible for the Board to be reduced in size without the legislation needing further amendment. 
With the enlarged Board the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board has informed me that he has in mind that the Board's work will be handled in the following way: Three 2- member divisions of the Board to be employed full-time on review references; two 2-member divisions to handle the normal tariff-revision inquiries; and onemember divisions to handle the normal non-tariff revision inquiries. 
As the Act stands at present, the number of members who were public servants at the time of their appointment cannot be less than 2 nor more than 3. The proposed amendment increases the permissible number of such members to 5. With an enlarged Board the existing arrangements would be too restrictive and an easing of the provision will widen the range of choice open to the Government in making the additional appointments. Provision is also made in the Bill for a presiding member of a division of the Board to carry out the functions of the  Chairman,  as set out by the  Chairman  in writing on each occasion and confined to the purposes of a particular inquiry and report. In addition, in line with the general policy applying to statutory bodies, the present salaries and allowances of the statutory officers concerned have now been set out in the legislation. 
The appointment of the additional members, as provided for in this Bill, should, I am assured by the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board, assist materially in speeding up the progressive review. At the same time I take this opportunity of assuring honourable members that it is the Government's intention that the review inquiries be full and thorough and that every opportunity be given to manufacturers to put their case. 1 should also repeat what has been said by myself and other Ministers on numerous occasions: The Government itself is responsible for all decisions relating to tariffs. As the review reports come forward one by one the Government will apply itself to the Board's recommendations in the same way as it does in the case of all Tariff Board reports. They will be examined thoroughly, and action taken to implement or amend the Board's recommendations only after the most thorough examination and after full account has been taken of the considerations set out in my tariff policy statement to the House on 28th April last year. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Stewart)  adjourned. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are set out in the following table derived from figures supplied by the Commonwealth Statistician. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are contained in the following table derived from figures supplied by the Commonwealth Statistician. 
There have been some minor newspaper reports on this matter. I just do not believe that  Sir Alec  DouglasHome was not aware of my criticism of the British Government about the transitional arrangements which were made for Australia, particularly in respect of those items which were under quota arrangements with the British Government. During the course of discussions whilst I was in Britain last year I had an opportunity of meeting  Sir Alec  Douglas-Home to talk about this matter, but the facts of this matter are that I stated my point very clearly also in a statement to this House. I said that we were disappointed with the result. The British Government replied that it now had a safeguard clause which could be introduced if there was disruption to certain agricultural commodities going to the European Economic Community. We have not received clarification of what this really means. I hope to get into discussions with the British Government, and I hope that it is in a position to amplify the safeguard clause more when I have these discussions. However the British Government faces the difficulty of having this safeguard clause defined more fully by the European members. So we are going through a period of trying to negotiate and confer so that we know where we will stand during the 5-year period. I do not think that any accusations that I have not been unequivocal or forthright in my comments about the British negotiations would hold water. In fact a lot of people felt that I went a little too far last year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Shippers' Council is not yet established. Formation of the Council was the unanimous recommendation of a study group comprising producer, commodity and exporter interests which met during 1971 following representations by the Australian Chambers of Commerce Export Council to my predecessor. 
The function of the Council will be to undertake negotiations with regard to arrangements for, and the terms and conditions that are to be applicable to outwards cargo shipping in all trades. This will involve taking over the role of existing shipper bodies designated under the Restrictive Trade Practices Act (1971) as well as undertaking negotiations in those trades in which no shipper body has been designated. 
Membership is to be decided by the Council itself and will be drawn from exporter, commodity, shipper, producer, manufacturing groups and organisations. 
As for (3). 
It is expected that the Council's membership will be representative of all export commodities which have formed the basis of existing shipper bodies. 
No. 
The shipping provisions of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1971, are to be amended to enable the Australian Shippers' Council to undertake negotiations on shipping freight rates and arrangements with shipping companies carrying Australian exports in all trades. 
No. 
The Australian Shippers' Council has not yet been designated under the Restrictive Trade Practices Act and cannot be until the Act is amended. Consequently, it has had no part in negotiations relating to the current season's wool clip. 
Radio Australia: Listeners in Indonesia  (Question No. 5619) 
I would be happy to answer this question on behalf of my colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry, who is in the House now and was on his way when the question was being asked. The impetuous Minister will get a reply to his impertinent question. 
That is about as near as the honourable member will get to being a Minister. The Prime Minister stated some time ago that a Randall committee would be set up to advise the Government on the wool industry, seeking the best adviceit could get from government departments and from the industry so that it would be in a well informed position to be able to make the best judgment on what was right for the Australian wool industry. This is the approach that any sensible government would take to analysing a difficult problem. When the honourable member says that he would like us to come back after the date on which the Parliament would otherwise adjourn to debate this question he is just shedding crocodile tears, knowing full well that a group of Australian Labor Party members are committed to be in Singapore the week after next to attend a national socialist conference. Nothing in the world would stop them from going. They do not want to sit for an extra week. 
Let me first of all say that I have not done any further checking on the question that was asked of me, because 1 really did not think it needed it. I think I was profound in my remarks when I was in Britain. They certainly got wide coverage in British newspapers, as they did in Australian newspapers. Also, my comments were supported by a memo that went from the Prime Minister to the British Prime Minister, and there has been a statement in this House on our criticism of the negotiations and what eventuated from them. So  I  think that no more need be said so far as Australia's attitude is concerned. If the British Government has not assessed our reaction, then I would be quite happy to tell it again. 
There has been a very successful programme in operation to diversify our trade away from the United Kingdom. Back in 1958-59 about 32 per cent of Australia's total exports went to the United Kingdom. For the year just concluded, 11 per cent of our trade went to that market. This has been due to wideranging government programmes to promote other markets in the world. Our biggest market today is Japan. In 1966 Japan overtook the United Kingdom as our principal market. However, we have been anxious not to concentrate solely on that market, but to seek markets elsewhere. By means of trade missions and promotion we have managed to' gain access to many markets around the world. I believe that my recent trip to South America, which included visits tn Chile, Peru, Argentina, Brazil and Mexico, will this year show very substantantially increased sales in all those markets, which offer great opportunities for the future. Already we are making very good sales of wheat and meat to places like Chile and also we are doing well in our sales of heavy engineering equipment. Only last week VVabco Australia Pty Ltd, a very big manufacturer of earth moving machinery, gained a contract to supply heavy ore carriers worth $6.5m to Chile against competition from North America, Japan and Germany. VVabco sold the largest ore carrying vehicle made in the world. It says something for Australian industry when it can go out and win markets like that. All round, our trade promo tion campaign, in seeking to diversify away from the United Kingdom, is working satisfactorily. 
-by leave - I table a copy of the Agreement on Trade Relations between Australia and Czechoslovakia, signed by me on behalf of -the Government on 16th May in Canberra. This Agreement will come into force on the date on which the 2 countries notify each other that their respective constitutional and 'Other requirements necessary to give effect to the Agreement have been complied with and, upon its entry into force, will terminate and replace the Treaty of Commerce concluded in 1936 between Australia and Czechoslovakia. The conclusion of this new Agreement follows a period of slackening in trade between Australia and Czechoslovakia and signifies the intention of both governments to give strength to their trading relationship and to encourage a substantial increase in the volume of 2-way trade. 
Czechoslovakia has one of the most sophisticated industrial complexes among the East European states, with a high ratio of foreign trade to gross national product. Yet Australian exports to Czechoslovakia in 1970-71, consisting almost entirely of wool and pig iron, were only $A5.4m; while imports from Czechoslovakia, though covering a much wider range of products, were valued at only $A8.3m. These are very low figures considering the status of both countries as major trading nations. Czechoslovakia's imports from Western developed countries currently total about $ 1,000m a year and, as stated iri the joint communique issued on 16th May at the conclusion of the visit of the Czechoslovak Government delegation, considerable scope exists for expanding trade and diversifying the present narrow range of Australian exports to Czechoslovakia. 
The Agreement now tabled brings up to date the trading relationship hitherto embodied in the 1936 Treaty of Commerce between Australia and Czechoslovakia. Mutual exchange of most-favoured nation treatment which was provided specifically by the former Treaty is in this Agreement now guaranteed through application by the 2 countries of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. An important clause in the Agreement provides for the establishment of an Australia-Czechoslovakia joint trade committee to promote the aims of the Agreement. The Committee will consider steps to be taken to encourage mutual understanding of the 2 countries' trading policies and practices, will review the progress of trade, examine problems hindering the development of trade and consider measures to facilitate growth in the trade between the 2 countries. Another significant clause proclaims the support by both Governments for the principle of concluding and adhering to international commodity agreements. 
The new Agreement is an important document which reflects developments in the country's thinking in the changing situation of world trade. Since the 1950s an increasingly large proportion of Australia's total exports has been sold in new markets outside the United Kingdom and 
Western Europe, and enormously increased sales to Japan in particular have brought about a situation of relative dependence on the Japanese market for a number of major export items. The entry of Britain and other West European countries into the enlarged European Economic Community will have serious implications for our exports of certain agricultural commodities. The Government sees the development of new growth markets in Eastern Europe as a desirable means of both cushioning the effects of current European moves and also lessening Australia's dependence on other individual markets. The Government hopes that the new Agreement will encourage Australian and Czechoslovak business enterprises to show increasing interest in each other's country not only as a market and a source of supply, but also as a partner in the area of industrial and technical cooperation. Czechoslovak enterprises have already indicated to the Government their particular interest in co-operation and trade with Australian firms in power generating stations and equipment, textile machinery and non-ferrous metals. 
Czechoslovakia's highly developed industry and technology and its high gross national product per capita make it a market particularly worth the serious attention of Australian exporters. Indeed, traders should be aware that the whole of the East European area, including the Soviet Union, constitutes a very large market of some 350 million people whose rising incomes and living standards represent a valauble potential market for Australia. The East European countries have traditionally purchased Australian wool and wool tops, wheat, meat, rutile, hides and skins and other raw materials. Australian exporters should now be seeking to take advantage of the opportunities to supply minerals and manufactured goods to meet the demand generated in Eastern European countries by continuing industrial development and economic growth. Marketing in Eastern Europe may pose a number of new problems to many Australian exporters and importers. Commercial success will depend largely upon the negotiations between our traders and the centralised importing organisations in these countries and it is hoped that, through the joint trade committee established by the new Agreement, a fuller understanding will be reached on the appropriate means of making and maintaining contact with those organisations. My Department of Trade and Industry will be ready to assist businessmen in their endeavour to increase trade with the Eastern European countries and the Soviet Union. I present the following paper: 
Agreement on trade relations with Czechoslovakia - Ministerial Statement, 23rd May 1972. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
I am the Leader of a Party in which members have a great deal of latitude in what they say. This is where there is a very big distinction between the Australian Labor Party and the Government parties. Honourable members on this side of the House can express a point of view knowing that their heads will not be lopped off. I, as Leader, will look after the problems in my Party, and I suggest that the Leader of the Labor Party should look after his problems, because he has many. 
This is not a 'Dorothy Dix' question, but I had been informed that such a question was to be asked. It is quite true to say that the dimension of Australian rural industry, as a dominant part of our Australian exports, is less than it was some years ago. It has been replaced by minerals and by manufactured goods. But primary products are still our major export earner, and primary industries are the basis of the economy of most of inland Australia. They are very important to the livelihood of millions of people living in country towns and cities. But this nation, being a great trading nation - a nation which has very heavy import demands - needs to earn foreign exchange. While we have those heavy demands on imports we will always have to rely very heavily on agricultural exports to earn this income. It is quite wrong to underestimate the significance of rural exports for this nation's continuing progress and for the high standard of living we maintain today. 
The question that the honourable member for Wakefield has asked me has some relevance. I can understand his concern in trying to assess what the temporary duty is against the existing one. I note that point, but I would be very reluctant to ask the Special Advisory Authority always to recommend an ad valorem percentage increase if some temporary duty is to be applied. 
The article was brought to my notice after it was published a week or two ago. My Department knows nothing of the index. 
I ask leave to make a brief explanation of an incorrect answer I gave at question time. 
It seems to me that the secession movement still lives in Western Australia. 1 have seen a report about the notice which General Motors-Holden's, has given about the closing down of its plant in Western Australia, and the subsequent dismissal of some of its staff. I would imagine that this is part of a rationalisation programme that General Motors has to alter its existing plant by upgrading it or closing it down so that it can produce at maximum efficiency. This might have been brought about by the improvement of the Trans-Australia railway service whereby General Motors can ship the assembled vehicles to Western Australia cheaper than trying to manufacture them there. I have been told by some of my departmental officers, who immediately looked into this matter, that General Motors is doing everything possible to protect the interests of as many of its staff as it can, by giving them either employment opportunities in other States or financial assistance and fair notice of any dismissal that is likely to take place. Naturally we are concerned about people being dismissed and about unemployment. The Commonwealth Employment Service is looking for job opportunities for the people who might be affected. I think we have to acknowledge that it is a commercial decision by a largs company. The company's objective must be to produce as cheaply as possible to meet competition from imported motor vehicles. I cannot entertain, for one moment, the idea that any part of Australia ought to be given preferential treatment as far as tariffs are concerned. We are one nation. We have to live and grow as one nation. If there are any difficulties we have to try to overcome them. 
After a long and close examination of the question of currency alignments the Government considered many alternatives. It came to a decision to make a slight devaluation in currency without any other major alterations to our existing tariff structure, and that decision stands. However, the Government does not rest idle, accepting existing tariff levels of protection. It has undertaken a continuous review of the tariffs starting with those of the higher levels of protection. Also, this year I have instigated an examination of a whole series of items which have been broadly banded together to see whether surplus protection is being given to 1,000 items, to see whether this might be reduced and also to see what bargaining value a reduction in tariffs would have in negotiations. I am sure that the Australian Government is not contemplating any alteration to the value of the Australian currency nor is it likely to be contemplating it. 
 in reply - I was pleased to listen to the comments of the various speakers in this debate tonight on the Industrial Research and Development Grants Bill. I think it has been a wellinformed and helpful debate. There has been some criticism by members of the Opposition and by members on the Government side in regard to some of the proposed amendments in this Bill. 
First I should like to answer the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn),  who felt that the industry had not been sufficiently consulted before amendments were made in regard to the alteration of the base period. Let me assure him that there has been wide consultation with a range of industry, including many industry associations, such as the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia and the Victorian chambers of manufactures, which are associates of that organisation. The Government has taken cognisance of many of the remarks of the industry organisations, and they are reflected in the new arrangements in the Bill. 
The honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  in a well documented speech criticised the Government on the basis that there is a bias in this legislation towards large companies. If there is a bias it is only because of the magnitude of their operations. But there is in reality a preference or an advantage to small companies. There are 2 types of grants, the general grant and the selective grant. The general grant has a ceiling qualification of $50,000. After that a selective grant is used. Naturally large companies, which would be looking for a grant larger than $50,000, would then have to come under examination by the Research and Development Board. 
That is so. It would apply the criteria, but the proportion of funds allocated for both purposes is largely weighted in favour of the smaller companies. With the alteration this year to 50 per cent of research and development funds being available for companies, the smaller companies must get first call on the available . funds. The Government has made also quite a wide ranging change in eligibility for expenditure. These changes are mainly geared towards helping the smaller company. The factors now taken into consideration include the technical information services, the hire of industrial research and development facilities, patent searches, repair and maintenance of plant, computer charges and work conducted on a part time basis. These factors were not allowable before, and it was the smaller company that was penalised as a result of those factors. 
I accept that, but the honourable member's general comment, if I may say so, sounded as though he was stating that there was severe discrimination against the small companies. This is not correct. Small companies may contract out research and development, which will be eligible for grant purposes, and this again is another factor on the side of small companies. There has been some talk also about the professional qualifications necessary before companies can qualify. I can speak of personal knowledge of companies that have suffered from the difficulty of not qualifying because they did not have this type of personnel. They have now made these appointments and they are indeed pleased that they have professionally qualified people on their staff. As a result their companies have been modernised and streamlined and have become much more efficient. 
In this respect I am able to refer to 2 companies in my electorate, one a saw milling operation, a family concern, and the other, a builder of sand mining equipment - a small, family unit specialised in magnetic separation of materials. Both companies felt that if they wanted to benefit from research and development, they would have to employ university qualified people. They have done so and both companies have been delighted with the result. Where previously there was lack of knowledge in their operations, now they are reaping the benefit from people with outside experience. Although there has been criticism of the proposal on the grounds of arbitrariness and the unreasonableness of the reference to academically trained persons, the professional qualification requirements in this legislation provide an important assurance that industrial research and development undertaken by companies receiving grants can be generally expected to 'be of satisfactory standards. 
A detailed technical and commercial assessment by the grants board of the merits of each company's industrial research and development would seem to be the only alternative way of providing equivalent assurances. However, this would be contrary to the essential nature of the grants scheme, which is the provision of a general incentive to all companies provided they conform to a few simple rules. Any departure from this system would require major changes in the present administrative arrangements. A small staff of non-technical public servants have administered the scheme, which encompasses more than 800 applicant companies. Under the responsibility of assessing the technical existing Act the board is absolved from the merits of each application. The present constitution of the Board is not intended to cover the making of such judgments. 
The requirement of the Industrial Research and Development Act is that for eligibility purposes the employees of a company must be either professionally qualified or be working in direct assistance to a professionally qualified person. This provision aims at upgrading industrial research and standards of work. It is expected that this encouragement to industry to employ more of Australia's professionally trained technicians will help to promote the future development of Australia's technological capacity. The results to date are most encouraging. It is estimated by the Grants Board that between 1965-66 and 1968-69 there was an increase of 64 per cent in the number of professionally qualified persons engaged in industrial research and development. Australian industry and the community in general cannot afford to lose too many of its professionally qualified people to other industrialised countries. 
To overcome some of the problems that have arisen in this area it is proposed to modify the definition regarding professional qualifications and to allow the board to accept either suitable qualifications granted by a tertiary or technical institution or, alternatively, to accept appropriate membership of an approved professional institute. I have mentioned this aspect because the Government has made modifications in order to try to make it easier for smaller companies to obtain the necessary recognised personnel. I believe that this is a major step forward. To remove this qualification opens the door completely, and it would make it very difficult for the Board to determine who should qualify and who should not. I am pleased to find such general support for the Bill, and I am sure that the small criticism that has been offered by members is indeed relatively insignificant. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-I shall answer the question. Some comment was made by a correspondent about this subject. I do not know from where he got his information, but he made a quite unnecessary statement that is causing unnecessary anxiety among some of the people in the Australian dairying industry. Last week I had talks with the New Zealand Minister for Overseas Trade and following those talks I joined him in issuing a statement saying that we would endeavour to set up a Government and industry panel to promote co-operation and the exchange of information on mar keting in third markets. To avoid any cutthroat competition or confusion in the market it was agreed that there would be a very close understanding between the 2 Governments. With Britain going into the European Common Market and with the likelihood of both Australia and New Zealand having difficulty in disposing of their excess production, it is quite vital that we work more closely together. But a suggestion that we would cut our production back for the benefit of New Zealand is quite wrong. We have been aiming to create a mechanism whereby Australia would be able to control her situation if we got into difficult marketing circumstances. That is what the Minister for Primary Industry has been endeavouring to do, and I hope that he will come to some arrangement and agreement with the industry before long. There has also been some rumour, a mischievous rumour, that New Zealand might hope to get dairy pro, ducts - butter - into Australia. Anybody who talks this way does not understand the stabilisation and orderly marketing system in this country, which could not allow any imports to necessitate still further exports to other markets. Our orderly marketing arrangements are complicated. They depend on complementary legislation of all State governments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows (the Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the information in reply to parts (1), (3), (4) and (5) of the question) - 
(a) Production of tinplate in Australia during 1970-71 was recorded as 304,138 tons. 
Statistics on consumption of tinplate in Australia are not available. However, ignoring movements of stocks, for which figures are not available, and ignoring minor differences in coverage between trade and production statistics, the apparent consumption of tinplate in 1970-71 was about 260,000 tons. 
Tariff duties applicable to tinplate are7 per cent (General) and Free (Preferential). 
and (4) Export and import statistics are compiled on a financial year basis and final figures for calendar year 1971 are not yet available. Exports and imports of tinplate in 1970-71 were as follows'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No other reference in these specific terms was made. However, it has been general practice for many years for references to the Board to be made under Section 15 of the Tariff Board Act as a whole, which includes (Section 15 (1) (h)) the question of whether  a  manufacturer was taking undue advantage  of the  protection afforded by the Tariff in regard  to  charging unnecessarily high prices for his goods or acting in restraint of trade to the detriment of the public. 
I am not aware of any such undertaking being sought by  the  Government. The procedures followed  by the  Government in setting levels of protection are designed to ensure that tariffs are no higher than necessary to protect economic and efficient industry. The Tariff Board makes a very thorough examination of the protective needs of such industry. The Board makes recommendations on levels of protection which are the minimum necessary, having regard to prices of imports, to allow economic and efficient enterprises to realise a reasonable profit. This procedure appears to provide satisfactory safeguards against firms which obtain high protection being able to charge unduly high prices. 
The  answer  to the hon  ourable  member's  question  is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I understand that the idea has been canvassed with some industry organisations by a private person who is interested in such matters. Should private bodies or persons wish to form such an organisation then it is, of course, open to them to do so. If such a body were formed, and if it were representative of informed opinion on trade matters in Australia, then any advice it cared to give the Government would, of course, receive full and careful consideration. In 1958 the Government established two organisations through which it has since been able to obtain valuable advice from experienced and eminent businessmen on a wide range of matters including Australian trade. These organisations are the Export Development Council and the Manufacturing Industries Advisory Council. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In so far as grants to industry provided under the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act is concerned eligibility for a grant is confined to those Australian companies which carry out systematic experimentation or analysis in the fields of science, engineering and technology; with the objective of acquiring or applying knowledge that may be of use for devising or developing new or improved products or processes. 
To May 1972 the Commonwealth Government has provided $38m to companies for industrial research and development 
With the exception of loans that may be made available by an agency of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation the Commonwealth does not provide loans to industrial or mining companies for research and development activities. 
There are no arrangements at present to consult with State Authorities regarding the possibility of providing incentives to industry to reduce artificially stimulated consumption; to retard obsolescence and encourage waste recycling. 
Pursuant to section 38 of the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act 1967 I present the Fifth Annual Report of the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
I would like to associate the Australian Country Party with the condolences expressed and tributes paid by the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition to the late  Sir Owen  Dixon; As both gentlemen have said, he was a truly outstanding Australian who won enormous respect both in this country and overseas. He had a long and varied career, reaching its zenith as Chief Justice of Australia. But he was also a great diplomat and as such he was required to show his great knowledge in helping with certain United Nations activities. I note with interest that he was also  chairman  of a committee that dealt with the handling of the Australian wool clip during the Second World War. This was an enormous undertaking but he carried it out with great skill. He was an outstanding and brilliant Australian and we honour him in this House today. 
I would like to associate the Australian Country Party with the remarks of the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition. Unfortunately 1 cannot speak about the Honourable Arthur Blakeley personally; he was before my time. It is sad that it has to be an occasion like this when we are reminded of the services that other people have made to this Parliament. He was a very important person in this House. He was the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Labor Party during a very tense period for this nation. He was a member of this House for 17 years and Minister for Home Affairs during the depression years from 1929 to 1932. That portfolio must have been one of the most onerous of any for a Minister to carry during that time. We honour him for the work he did, and on behalf of my Party I extend sympathy to his family. 
There have been discussions with the States on the question of licensing travel agents. 
May I answer the question? We have expressed the opinion that we would be prepared to licence them in the Australian Capital Territory and in the Northern Territory where we have jurisdiction. 
We have been trying to get the States to co-operate. We believe that we need the co-operation of the States. We believe that the States do have jurisdiction in the area of the licensing of travel agents. No doubt the Leader of the Opposition is correct when he refers to Commonwealth powers as far as overseas travel is concerned but travel agencies are fairly diverse sorts of organisations which deal with domestic travel as well as overseas travel. We believe this ought to be done in a spirit of co-operation with the State governments but up until this point of time we have not had that co-operation. Our aim is to get a system of licensing of agents throughout Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are a number of international or multinational corporations which either own or have a controlling interest in mineral operations in Australia and which export minerals from these operations to their associate or parent corporations in other countries. This kind of activity is, of course, a common feature of world trade in minerals in Western countries and is not unique to Australia alone. It is not possible, however, to provide an exhaustive list of these corporations but the following companies are known to operate, at least in part, in this way: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Consideration is at present being given to this industry's request for additional protection against imports of fine papers and special wrapping papers. 
Yes. However, it is the Government's policy to assist and encourage Australian producers through its protection policy, in the main through tariff protection, and to fully preserve this protection in Government purchasing decisions, rather than through additional preferential arrangements in Government purchasing contracts of the kind suggested. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that the exploratory tests being conducted in South Australia on the spreadability of mixtures of butter fat and vegetable oils compared with ordinary butter are continuing. 
I understand that several estimates of this market's demand for shortening products which would ordinarily be used in the food processing industry have been made by commercial enterprises. However, the Japanese authorities have indicated their concern at the possible inflow of large quantities of such products and it would therefore appear that the actual size of the market might be determined by other than purely commercial considerations. 
I am not aware of any view that has been expressed by the States on the research on mixtures of butter fat and vegetable oils which is being carried out under the dairy research programme administered by the Australian Dairy Produce Board. 
The following answer is provided to the honourable member's question: 
Spain already has a trade agreement with the EEC, under which that country receives tariff concessions on a wide range of her exports entering the Community. Portugal is currently negotiating a trade agreement which could provide for duty free entry into the enlarged EEC on most industrial items and preferences on certain agricultural items. I have no information which suggests that South Africa is seeking, or has sought, favoured nation status with the EEC. Of these countries only South Africa and Portugal currently receive tariff concessions in the United Kingdom. 
Yes. 
The Australian Government is seeking to develop the closest possible trading relationship with the enlarged EEC with the objective of ensuring that we are in a position to take full advantage of the trade opportunities which enlargement can offer to us. We are not seeking EEC membership nor an association agreement with the EEC. 
The timetable for the phasing out of trade preferences in the United Kingdom is contained in the Treaty concerning the accession of the United Kingdom, Denmark, Ireland and Norway to the EEC. It is the same for all third countries which have preferences in the United Kingdom, including South Africa, Portugal and Spain. 
The honourable member forwarded a telegram to my office last week when I was out of Canberra, and my Department has been asked to have a look at this situation and to advise me about it. Unfortunately I have not received a report from my Department. I will immediately examine the matter and advise the honourable member. 
I have not seen the statement referred to by the honourable member but I have been, notified by Bradmill Industries Ltd that it intends to close down its plant at Rutherford, near Maitland, the reason being that it desires to increase the efficiency of the company's operations by concentrating in other areas. The company is trying to find within its own organisation job opportunities for the people who will be affected by the closure. Those for whom the company cannot find jobs will be given the maximum amount of notice and will receive certain severance benefits. 
The competition that the Australian textile industry is facing from imports is a matter of concern, and the Government has taken certain, action in this area. The House will recall that at the end of last year a Tariff Board report was presented which suggested that the quantitative restrictions be lifted. The Government did not accept this advice. Instead it agreed to carry on quantitative restrictions for certain knitted wear for a period of 18 months while negotiations went on with certain countries to see whether voluntary restraints could be imposed. I am happy to say that we have had very satisfactory discussions with Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Korea and I believe the industry representatives who have been there feel relatively satisfied with the results that have been achieved up to date. The specific matter of woven manmade fibre fabric that the honourable member mentions was referred to the Government earlier. It was decided to send that matter to the Special Advisory Authority which recommended temporary protection by way of an increase of about 10c per square yard of fabric. . If this action had not been taken I would say that there would have been much more severe repercussions throughout the whole industry. The matter is now being fully examined by the Tariff Board and when the Government has a report it will make a judgment on what action should be taken. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that at no stage did  Mr Connally  bring up the question of a trading bloc during his talk with  Mr Sato  last November, nor was the matter raised by  Mr Sato. 
Australian Army: Holsworthy Range Firings (Question No. 6108)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many rounds of artillery, mortar and antitank ammunition were fired at the Holsworthy Range in 1971-72 (Hansard, 25th August 1971, page 740). 
Any alteration in the exchange rate of our currency has a significant bearing on industry. If there is an appreciation of Australia's currency the earning capacity of our export industry is reduced, its competitive position with other countries is also reduced and the competition which domestic industries have with imports becomes more intense. For an economy such as ours when we have had bad times with a recession in rural areas, when there has been a degree of stagnation in secondary industry and when export mining industries are finding it difficult to get a price to make their operations profitable any alteration in the rate of our currency would act contrary to national 
Budget policy at the moment, which is to try to get stagnant areas of the economy moving again. 
I have been very interested in the remarks of officials of the Reserve Bank of Australia which I feel represent an approach to a capital inflow problem. It is a theoretical approach. However, I have been more interested to hear that the Australian Labor Party is in favour of an appreciation of the Australian dollar, as was announced last night by the Leader of the Opposition. If that is the case then Australian rural industries should know that the alternative government would reduce their income. I have spoken with people associated with secondary industry and with delegations of proprietors of factories and of trade union representatives who are very concerned about the intensity of competition from imports, particularly in the footwear, textile, clothing, electronic, metal, heavy engineering and forging industries. All of these industries would find their positions worse than they are at the moment if the Opposition's proposals were implemented. Probably the most insulting remark of all made by the Leader of the Opposition in relation to currency appreciation was that tariffs were too high and should be reduced. Who is he to make a determination of the correct level of protection in Australia, and to bandy about casually the view that tariffs are too high? It is the duty of the Australian Tariff Board to determine the levels of tariffs. Appreciation and the reduction of the protection level through the reduction of tariffs would put secondary industry in an intolerable position, and would make even worse the circumstances of some of our primary industries such as our canned fruit industry and our sugar industry, as we]) as our wool industry which is just recovering from an adverse period. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I want to validate what I said about the comments made last night by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in relation to revaluation. Let me read this out. 
It is a transcript of the Australian Broadcasting Commission 
I will table it. In an interview last night the Leader of the Opposition said: 
I think the Australian dollar is undervalued, that as long as that remains it will promote inflation in Australia. It will promote the useless inflow of money from overseas. It is not something that politicians like to talk about because with an election coming on people will immediately assume that if we are elected that's what we will do. But you asked me: I am convinced that the Australian dollar ought to be appreciated in value. 
He was asked about reductions in tariffs and he replied: 
In general terms, yes. I do believe tariffs in Australia in general terms are too high. This causes inflation. Nevertheless, 1 have the same experience as every other elected person, that on specific cases that are put up, one believes that a high level of protection is still required. For instance, for textiles in country towns. There is no alternative for the employment of women. So I must confess there are exceptions which I regard as valid to the general principle that Australian tariffs are too high. 
I will neither confirm nor deny the remarks of my colleague, who is a private member and can make comments as he wishes. A Minister of the Crown or an alternative Prime Minister of this country is not allowed this luxury. If he were then we would create exactly what I said- 
The Reserve Bank of Australia merely put various propositions forward; theirs was an intellectual approach to a problem and seemed to ignore the very great problems that exist in our society for certain industries and regions and the social problems involved. It is the responsibility of us people - the parliamentarians -to take an amalgam of all these considerations and make a political decision; not to take the intellectual Une which some people believe should be taken and so ignore the humanities. 
I should have thought that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition would keep himself informed by reading the morning's newspapers. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As announced in the Budget Speech, the Government has decided that the capital of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation should be increased from $4m to $8m. The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to that decision. The last increase in the capital of the Corporation was in 1965 when it was increased from $2m to the present level of $4m. Since then there has been a substantial increase in the business being written by the Corporation and, as a result, there has been a corresponding increase in its contingent liabilities. The face value of business underwritten has increased since 30th June 1965 from $160m, with contingent liabilities of $83m, to a face value of $622m with contingent liabilities of $375m as at 30th June 1972. These figures clearly show the rapid growth of the Corporation's business. They illustrate the important role being played by the Corporation in assisting exporters, through the provision of a specialised range of payments insurance facilities and guarantee facilities, in expanding and developing overseas markets. 
Although the liabilities of the Corporation are fully guaranteed by the Commonwealth, the Corporation is charged to conduct its affairs on a commercial basis. It is appropriate, therefore, that the Corporation should have sufficient capital to support the growth in its business. The Corporation has estimated that its contingent liabilities will increase by at least $45 m per annum over the next 3 years. In order to establish and preserve a ratio of reserves to liabilities which would provide a reasonable basis for the Corporation to support its growing business, it is considered that an increase in capital of $4m is necessary to enlarge the reserves available to the Corporation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from  12.44  to  2.15  p.m. 
Yesterday, in answer to a question, I stated what would be the effects of an appreciation of the Australian dollar on secondary industry, rural industry and our mining industry. I did not mention the tourist industry, but it is true that such a revaluation would be injurious to the inflow of foreign tourists to this country. The capacity of the Australian tourist industry to compete with the tourist industries of other countries would be diminished because the purchasing power of the currencies of the potential tourists' countries would be less in relation to our dollar. When a country has a tourist industry worth some $150m to $200m, as Australia has at the moment, an adjustment of the currency means that that country becomes less attractive to tourists because their money does not go as far. 
I see that his policy is to encourage Australians to go for holidays overseas rather than spend their holidays within Australia and thus give advantage to the domestic industry. Yesterday when I was answering a similar question I revealed that the Leader of the Opposition had clearly and unequivocally stated that he believed the Australian dollar should be appreciated. This was a grave error on his part. It revealed a lack of understanding of economic affairs. It showed that his intellect did not extend to economic matters; I am sure that he would not have made such a statement if it did. As I mentioned, this would have serious consequences for industries. 
I did not mention the most serious aspect - it is almost a political crime - that is, putting the Australian dollar into the area of speculation. It should be a cardinal rule, and must be a cardinal rule, for any person holding a responsible position in a government that can influence the value of the Australian dollar not to speculate on anything that might alter the value of the currency. We must rigidly stand behind the present value; otherwise we would alter the investment rate within the country and the flow of money in and out of the country, and put pressure on the Australian dollar. 
The Leader of the Opposition has announced to the rest of the world that the alternative Prime Minister believes that this is a measure that should be implemented. It does not matter how much he may deny it or alter it or what declaration the Australian Labor Party may make concerning a reversal  of  this policy, the fact of the matter is that the alternative Prime Minister said it. The only way in which retribution can be exacted  for  this political crime is for the Australian people to reject the Australian Labor Party completely at the next election or, as the only alternative, for the Labor Party to change its leader. 
It is quite obvious that the Leader of the Opposition is not running away from the issue and remains adamant in his point of view. Now he tries to justify his point of view by making reference to the Reserve Bank bulletin which predicates on the question of capital inflow and talks about methods that might be used to control the inflow of foreign capital. It used this argument as one of the methods, but did not recommend it as the method to be used. It merely put forward the argument that an adjustment of the value of the currency would tend to reduce the inflow of foreign capital. Because of the statement of the Leader of the Opposition, over the next 2 months or until we have an election the Australian dollar will be under attack by the international monetary bandits who know that they can speculate on the possibility of a change of government and an alteration in the value of the currency. In other words, these bandits are being allowed to raid the Australian dollar in order to make a profit because of the error of the Leader of the Opposition. 
I have announced that some additional trade commissioner posts will be established at Sao Paulo in South America, at Belgrade in eastern Europe and in the European Economic Community. There will be a definite strengthening of our trade posts within EEC countries to take account of adjustments of trade which will result from Britain joining the EEC. The honourable member repeats a request which I recall he made to me earlier, that we ought to have roving trade commissioners. We have no positions so designated. However, a number of trade commissioners are unlisted and they do occasionally, when the need arises, go to particular countries and have discussions there. But we have no special designation of roving trade commissioner and I do not think it is likely that we will have such a designation. 

 - Mr Speaker, I am very interested to be asked this question, because I give the honourable member for Batman credit for having quoted me correcty. This is quite different from what the Leader of the Opposition has done and what the honourable member for Hindmarsh also has done when quoting me. They have always left out the most salient point, namely that I was referring to a 35- hour week. I did state that there was a strategic attack on industry planned by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and by the Australian Labor Party on the capitalintensive industries because they were the most vulnerable. I said that if these companies were to succumb to the blackmail there would be a flow-on effect throughout the entire community which would have disastrous economic results. I stand by that statement. Nothing could be more disastrous for this country than to introduce suddenly right across the board, a 35-hour week as the Australian Labor Party has been proposing. 
There has been a great concern in the textile and clothing industries about the competition they are facing from imported clothes and textiles. Indeed, the Prime Minister and I received a deputation of representatives of this segment of the economy only last week. They expressed their concern at a situation which they felt was not improving. If anything, they were very depressed about the outlook for the industry, I was able to tell C.em that we have had discussions with various countries trying to arrange voluntary restraints. Whether this will be the answer I am not at liberty to say at present, but we have tried very hard to find an answer to this problem which is causing people to be laid off, to be placed in the unemployed group or to have their working hours substantially reduced. 
If we are to keep our economy buoyant, which has been the objective of the Budget, we will have to look very seriously for the most satisfactory method of achieving that objective if we cannot reach a conclusion with the countries causing the problem so that they exercise voluntary restraints. This brings me back to the second point. When there is a problem like this in a section of an industry, its personnel and leaders must worry very much about the double hunger that has been thrown in their faces by the Leader of the Opposition. I refer firstly to his support for appreciation of the Australian currency, which would cause imports to come into Australia very much cheaper and so worsen the already difficult situation of the industry, and secondly to bis comment that he believes our tariffs are too high and should be reduced. All I can say about the Opposition is that it seems to have a policy of wanting to spell death and doom for these industries which give tremendous employment, particularly to females. 
I move: 
The Australian Labor Party has certainly been trying to do some research work; it has been trying to drag up some skeletons from somewhere in order to justify the unforgiveable actions of its Leader. 
It is interesting to note that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition feels that this matter needs to be raised. 
Well, I will bark in a minute. 
Apparently some 12 months ago I made some comments about devaluation of the currency or adjustments to the parity of the Australian dollar. I would like to look up those comments to see just what I did say and I am glad that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has drawn my attention to them. Apparently what I said was not very startling because it did not produce any comment or reaction from the Labor Party. What has brought this matter into the public arena now is a statement by the Leader of the Opposition immediately after he made his speech on the Budget. It was a statement dealing with an economic matter and the most profound statement that we have heard from the Labor Party in 1972. It has tremendous significance for industries in Australia; it is so significant that there has been a reaction from the honourable member for Riverina and the honourable member for Dawson who have both disowned their Leader and said that they are against revaluation. Quite obviously within the Labor Party there are marked divisions. While watching a television programme last night I was most interested to hear the Leader of the Opposition say that members of the Labor Party were free to make their own independent decisions on matters of social interest and matters of conscience. Apparently members of the Labor Party also can make their own statements regarding matters of tremendous national importance, in this case in relation to the currency. The sad part about the statement of the Leader of the Opposition is that he made it immediately after his speech on the Budget and neglected to make those remarks at that time although that was the right and proper time to make them. Having made his statement in an interview outside this House he then came into the House and tried to justify what he had said. He went on television and said that he believed in the appreciation of the Australian dollar. 
So it is quite clear that the policy of the Australian Labor Party if it gets into office is to change the value of the Australian dollar immediately. Unless the Labor Party decides to change this policy the Australian people will have to accept that it will have serious effects on employment in secondary industries which already are feeling the cold winds of imports from cheap labour countries. The Labor Party's policy will have a serious effect on the canned fruits industry which knows what these effects can be like following devaluation of sterling and an appreciation against the United States dollar. Who knows what the effect will be on the rice industry? The Queensland sugar industry, which is a substantial export industry, knows only too well what the effects will be on it. This is the reason why 2 members of the Labor Party have deserted their Leader and have publicly come out and stated in their own electorates that they would not have anything to do with revaluation. It is up to the Australian Labor Party to say where it stands. The biggest tragedy of all this is that the Leader of the Opposition -really does not understand the error that he has made and continues to try to justify his position. The longer he continues to do this the more serious will be the position in which he puts the Australian currency. He puts it into the ring for international speculation and he demonstrates to the Australian people that he is not a fit and proper person to be the alternative Prime Minister of Australia. 
I listened with great interest to the final remarks of the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  relating to Australian tariff policy and his approach to the question of the levels of tariffs and the protection needed by Australian industry. It seems to me that the Labor Party has been infected with a disease which allows everybody to speak up and say exactly what he thinks and get away with it, because the remarks of the honourable member seem to be diametrically opposed to those of the Leader v the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I am pleased to be associated with the Budget which will guide the economy of the nation for the next 12 months. Confidence on the one hand and lack of confidence on the other can each be powerful influences on the national economy. Confidence can he a strong stimulant and the lack . of confidence a strong depressant. The Budget we are debating was designed by the .Government to bring about a significant improvement in national economic performance in the coming year. It is designed also to stimulate confidence, the great economic catalyst in a free enterprise society. 
In the Budget the Government has gone as far as the bounds of good economic management will permit. To add the extra cost of the long list of proposals that the Leader of the Opposition has advocated would completely alter the taxation arrangements or, failing that, be an exercise of reckless indulgence in financial irresponsibility. In his speech on the Budget the Leader of the Opposition listed something like 23 or 24 items which would commit a Labor government to the spending of more money. Some of the items are relatively small but some are enormous in cost. And this is not to mention the string of other promises he has made as he has moved around Australia, simple promises like taking over the State railway systems or free off-peak rail travel, etc. I am sure that the Australian public has enough wisdom to measure the after effects of such a binge. Within the total Budget strategy and capacity we have aimed to help those who need help most. The Budget provides an extra $145m for pensions, an extra $17m for health benefits for the aged and an extra $72m for education. 
Much of the impact of the Budget is directed towards that large group of people in the community who, I believe, have not received sufficient recognition in the past for their difficulties. I refer to young married couples setting up a home and raising and educating a family. These , young men and women, totally preoccupied with working, building a home and establishing a family, have not the opportunity to organise themselves into yet another pressure group to petition, demonstrate or lobby. Yet they are probably the most vital section of our community - the workers and the builders of our nation. The taxation reductions will be a big help to them. They are conscious of taxation and its impact, and they have an ability to measure the cost of promises against the impost of additional taxation they are .likely to receive. The higher allowances for dependants will also be useful. 
I have mentioned that the' Budget provides more help for education. There will be many thousands more scholarships, with better living allowances and. lower means tests to qualify for scholarships. We are offering help for child care centres. The home savings grant will be improved. One of the main objectives of the Budget is to stimulate stronger consumer spending. We believe that this will generate a chain reaction leading to a rise in business confidence, an expansion of production, a rise in investment and hence a rise in demand for labour. The Budget is the latest in a series of demonstrations of he willingness of the Government to take action on many fronts to improve the state of the economy. Earlier there was an easing in bank lending policy and a reduction in interest rates. The industry investment allowance was restored. We have taken special measures, such as the rural unemployment relief scheme for which S72m has been allocated in this Budget. We are also very conscious of the problems facing the economy. 
At the same time, there are some quite bright spots. In the rural sector in particular there has been a significant improvement in the last year. The output for that sector rose by more than 6 per cent and there were real gains for meat, sugar, sorghum and barley, and a very good recovery in wool prices. We have seen total exports jump almost 13 per cent to record levels, and our current account deficit has fallen to the lowest point in almost 10 years. For the rural sector the Budget contains 2 highly significant new provisions. The first is a proposal for a new long term loan facility which, I believe, will lead to the establishment of a significant new source of rural finance. The second is the new provision for the easing of estate duty for everyone. For rural industry the changes we have made mean that about 8 times as many rural estates as before, or approximately 40 per cent, will now be exempt from estate duty and many more estates will be subject to less duty. All the measures I have mentioned are designed to help people who need help and, in more general terms, to create a climate of confidence in which the Australian economy can function to the advantage of the nation and all its people.. 
I referred at the beginning of my speech to the destructive effects on the economy of a lack of confidence. If we look at the actions of the Australian Labor Party in recent times we cannot escape the conclusion that the Opposition is determined to depress the economy by creating a climate in which confidence is wanting. We all know that Labor Party members are constantly making gloomy forecasts especially about the level of unemployment. No-one would suggest that it is not a legitimate political tactic to do this, but neither would anyone deny that these forecasts by the Labor Party must have a depressing effect on the economic situation. Again we have the example of the Labor Party strongly supporting the idea of shorter working hours for more money. There is a violent disagreement between the Government and the Opposition on this question. The Government sees a general reduction in working hours in the immediate future as being quite unacceptable. It would have the most serious repercussions on the economy and on the living standards of the Australian people. 
By supporting the campaign for shorter working hours the Labor Party no doubt believes that it is acting in the interests of the Australian work force. But is it in the interests of the community to push up costs, to increase the cost of living, to make our exports dearer and less competitive, to reduce the spending power of the worker's weekly pay packet? Is it in the community's interest to add to the costs of local government so that rates become an even bigger burden than they are now? Is it in the interests of the Australian people to make food more expensive and to make homes dearer? There can be no doubt that the Labor Party very seriously misunderstands the national interest and the community interest in this matter. This misunderstanding by a Party which should be able to understand is a betrayal of people who have looked to the Labor Party to speak for them over so many years. This misunderstanding must raise the most serious doubt as to the capacity of the Labor Party to manage the Australian economy properly. 
One of the most important attributes of a government must be the ability to distinguish between what is popular and what is responsible. A government that cannot make the distinction will lead the nation into disaster. The most outstanding example of the inability of the Leader of the Opposition to bring responsibility to economic policy lies in his recent comments on the parity of the Australian dollar. In his original statement and in his subsequent comments in this House and on television perhaps the most significant thing of all was his complete inability to distinguish between the responsibility' demanded of an alternative Prime Minister and his desire to say something he hopes will be popular. I believe that this aspect has ever more serious implications for the future government of this country than the short term consequences for our currency which the statement by the Leader of the Opposition could generate. In both cases - the campaign for shorter working hours and the Labor Party Leader's comments on currency values - there is a salutary warning to the Australian people. Can a Labor government act responsibly in relation to the economic management of this country? Certainly its Leader does not demonstrate competence or capacity. 
There is another very significant danger signal in the equally incredible statement on tariff policy made by the Leader of the Opposition. He said that, in general terms, tariffs in Australia are too high and he would like to see a reduction in tariffs generally. The Australian people must ask themselves what the Labor Party's policy on tariffs means for their future economic security. To make the not just incredible but quite staggering suggestion, as the Leader of the Opposition has done, that there should be, apparently at the same time, a revaluation of the currency and a reduction in tariffs raises the picture of a situation in which Australian industry and all those who depend upon it for their living would suffer extremely serious damage. This blast - a real double-bunger - hurled at Australian industry, the life blood of employment, must leave industry and trade unions staggering. The traditional Labor supporters must be bewildered and perplexed about what the Leader of the Opposition stands for. Job security and peace of mind for the ordinary working man and woman must be shattered. The Australian people need have no doubt where the Government stands on both of these questions. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and I have made it perfectly clear that the Australian exchange rate stands where it is. 
The Government has repeatedly stated in the clearest terms its attitude to tariff protection. We believe that tariffs should be no higher than is necessary to give adequate and reasonable protection to economic and efficient Australian industries. We believe that no decision can be made on the levels of tariffs needed to fulfil this policy without the fullest possible examination by an independent authority, namely, the Tariff Board which makes a thorough examination of all the circumstances of the industry concerned. To suggest, as the Leader of the Opposition has suggested in his sweeping and irresponsible statement, that tariffs generally are too high and should be reduced, is to completely throw away any semblance of a responsible approach to economic management. The Government does believe that tariff levels should be reviewed. We have set in train a systematic process through which tariff levels can be carefully examined. We reject outright the Labor Party's approach to this fundamentally important matter. 
There has been criticism of the fact that the Budget contains no allocation of funds for decentralisation. What this criticism ignores is that the institution of a comprehensive national policy of decentralisation must involve much more than mere money. It must involve a lot more than a simple statement by the Labor Party that it would build some new cities along the roads linking our existing capital cities. When the Government determines its long term approach to this very important question, it will be an approach which looks far beyond the necessarily limited range of vision of a Budget. 
In considering the Budget the Australian people also must make some other important decisions. They must look at all the things I have mentioned - the economically dangerous campaign for shorter working hours and the nationally irresponsible attitudes of the Labor Party to the questions of currency values and tariff protection. They must look at the attitude of the Labor Party to questions of industrial unrest which also present dangers to our economic stability and to our standards of living. The people in our rural areas must decide whether they want the kind of approaches which the Government has taken to primary industry policy with real success, despite difficulties, or whether they want the 'anything for a headline' technique which the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  would apply to rural policy making. Do the primary producers want policy decided by people who, according to one of their colleagues, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  treat rural policy as a bit of a joke. These are the things which the Australian people must decide. When they consider all these matters I am sure there can be no doubt about the decision they will make. I have pleasure in supporting the Budget. 
The debate this afternoon has been useful in that it has clearly illustrated what the Australian Labor Party's policy is. It is to pursue the objective of a 35-hour week. It shelters behind the Constitution in saying that the Parliament cannot legislatively introduce a 35-hour week, but it makes it quite obvious that it will pursue the matter in any way possible to make it a reality. I would like to see the 35-hour week campaign retitled so the people know what it is. It should be called a campaign to reduce spending power. It is the Labor Party's failure to understand the impact of shorter hours that makes it necessary for the Government to try to explain the situation to the Australian people. None of those who are suggesting a 35-hour week, however fine the motives they put forward, are suggesting that people should get less than 40 hours pay for it. If people are to work 35 hours for 40 hours pay they will find, broadly speaking, that when they want to buy something worth $35 they will have to pay $40 to get it. Whenever the worker, the housewife or the farmer wants something that takes 35 hours work to produce he or she will have to pay the value of 40 hours work to get it. 
That is really what the Government has been saying when it has pointed, out that a 35-hour week would add from $2, 500m to in excess of $3,000m to the national wages bill. That $2,500m plus will not come from any fairy godmother; it will come from the people of Australia. It works out at about $200 each, or about $800 for an average family. Everyone will contribute. People will not be asked whether they would like to contribute. They will simply find that prices have gone up. They will have to contribute, some a bit more, some a bit less, on the average $200 a year for each person. This is what the unions and the Labor Party are intent apparently to thrust on the Australian people. 
The only explanation I can think of is that the Labor Party completely misunderstands what is in the national and the community interest. When we look at some of the statements of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on tariffs and on the value of the Australian dollar, we  can  understand Labor's misunderstanding of the implications of a 35-hour week. Are the national interests and the community interest best served by pushing up costs, by increasing the cost of living, by making our exports dearer and less competitive on overseas markets, by raising the spending power of the workers' weekly pay packet? Is it in the interests of Australians to add to the costs of local government so that rates are even more of a burden than they are now? Do we want food prices to go up even faster? Do we want the cost of building homes pushed up at a faster rate? Or are the national and community interests better served by people who are responsible enough to take the unpopular course of speaking out against the things which would lead to a worsening of the individual's economic position? I think that this misunderstanding by the trade unions and the Labor Party of the national and community interest, that is the interest of all Australians, represents a betrayal of those who have supported them over the year, and I think it is Labor's misunderstanding of this whole question which has made it very clear that it does not like being picked up and having its policies exposed. 
I made a statement in Perth a few weeks ago and I think it is important that I repeat it now, because the versions presented by the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  have not been accurate. I said that our efforts and our hopes to make significant progress in curtailing inflation have been seriously jeopardised by a strategically planned attack on industry by organised labour. I said that this attack was apparently aimed initially at forcing a 35-hour week on highly capital intensive industries in which labour costs might be small in relation to total costs. I pointed out that many of the industries on which his attack was being made were capital intensive industries dominated by international corporations. I said - and I make no apology for it - "The Government will be looking to these corporations to resist the demand for a 35-hour week'. Australians as a whole will see the response of these corporations as a real test of how much they are concerned about the welfare and the stability of the Australian economy and the Australian community. 
This statement brought an hysterical reaction from the Labor Party, as it is waken ing some of its ranks now. Its supporters accused me of all sorts of things. They accused me of selling out the Australian worker and they demanded that I resign. I did not resign. But on the next night 1 made another speech in which I commented on the Labor Party's reaction. 1 repeat now what I said then because I believe it puts into a few words the heart of the whole question. I said that I had been attacked because I had drawn to the attention of the Australian public a campaign by the Labor Party and by trade unions that was against the national interest and against the interests of the Australian people. It seems to me that the very real tragedy in this is that it is not just a campaign; the Labor Party and the unions cannot see or will not admit the damage they can do to the living standards of people they say they represent. This is the core of the argument. It is very clear that the Government sees the national interest and the interest of the Australian people differently from the way the Labor Party sees them. Inflation is the most serious problem this country faces. If the Australian people are consistently to seek higher pay for less work, living standards will suffer. (Quorum formed.) The calling of a quorum is a tactic to try to stifle what I am saying. If the Australian people are consistently to seek higher pay rates for less work, and if they are to demand pay increases in excess of productivity increases, the standard of living will not be improved; it will be damaged. We are not doing the wage earner any service at all by encouraging him continually to seek higher pay or to press for shorter hours when all it will do is undermine his standard of living, push costs up and up and reduce the volume of goods his pay packet can buy. 
When we speak out in this way against a 35-hour week we are not trying to set employers against employees. We are trying to protect the interests of the employee. We are trying to dissuade him from being taken in by the illusion or mirage of change which he thinks will be good for him but which really can do him only harm. Some people may be quite happy to make a bargain to work 35 hours a week and to accept the fact that the money in their pay packets will not go as far as it now does, but they should have it made quite clear that this is the bargain. It is the task of a responsible government to make clear to everyone the 2 sides of the bargain. 
Most Australians enjoy the standard of living that this country provides. Most of them want to raise that standard of living through better social services, greater development and more of the good things of life for themselves and their children. They are prepared to work 40 hours a week or even a little longer to achieve those results. I think that the Labor Party underestimates the Australian people when it seeks popularity by talking of reducing working hours. The Labor Party misunderstands the needs of the Australian people and its responsibility to them when it proclaims the 35-hour week as a policy objective. When people say that the real aim of the 35-hour week is more leisure they should remember that if they get that leisure it will be achieved at the cost of a corresponding cut in spending power. They will find themselves no better off. They will get the shorter working week at the cost of damage to the economy of this country which, when selling its products, has to compete with overseas countries. 
It is hard, of course, to determine the exact impact of a 35-hour week in particular areas, but it is clear that the problems raised by shorter working hours will extend throughout primary industry, secondary industry and various service industries, as well as to consumers, and particularly to people on fixed incomes. In some ways people engaged in primary industries are in the same position as pensioners and other people on fixed incomes. They have minimum scope to influence their incomes. The incomes of farmers are largely set in overseas markets. They are unable to pass on higher costs and this alone can mean a fall in their living standards as prices rise. 
Primary producers are in a worse position than other people in that their income is not their cash receipts but what is left after they have paid their costs of production. If costs rise and export prices remain the same the actual cash income of primary producers will be lower. The introduction of a 35-hour working week or the reduction of all weekly working hours by five would have a drastic effect on the farming community. If, for example, the standard working week were reduced by 5 hours throughout the com munity a substantial increase in costs could be expected. About 80 per cent of a farmer's production costs represent purchases from the non-farm sector of items such as fertilisers, transportation, equipment and so on. 
As has already been indicated in what I have said and in what my colleagues have said in this debate, the introduction of reduced working hours would have significant effects on the costs of farmers. Unit labour costs on the farm would also rise. Industries which sell their products on export markets are unlikely to be able to pass on increased costs without loss of sales. On the domestic market, any increase in prices could serve to reduce the consumption of farm products although with some farm products consumers will be forced to absorb price increases which result from increased farm costs. 
For the rural sector as a whole, taking into account the possible impact on costs and returns, a reduction of 5 hours in the standard working week could reduce the aggregate farm income by as much as $200m, or a reduction of 20 per cent on last year's figure. As much as $200m less could flow into country communities which are already finding the going less than easy. This would create an impossible social and economic situation for rural communities as against other sections of the community. This is of course an estimate based on a number of assumptions and it is possible that it could be altered by such factors as the phasing in of a shorter week over- a period of years or the constraint of wage rises over that period. To expect this attitude to wages seems to be not to face up to the realities of life. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbett)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
The following is provided in answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Protocol No. 16 of the Treaty of accession (commonly referred to as the safeguard clause) becomes applicable with effect from 1st January 1973. lt is impossible to say, however, in advance of particular problems arising how effective the Protocol can be in safeguarding the agricultural trade interests of third countries. lt has, however, been recognised both in Britain and in the Communities that enlargement of the EEC could give rise to problems for countries such as Australia, at least for some products, and that remedial action could and would be taken to deal with such problems if they were to arise. 
and (5) There has been and will continue to be discussions between Australia on the one hand and Britain and the Communities on the other concerning problems likely to arise for individual products and the possible means of dealing with them in terms of Protocol No. 16. 
Preferences exchanged between Britain and Australia will continue until the United Kingdom/Australia Trade Agreement (UKATA) is terminated. Britain will formally join the EEC on 1st January 1973. However under the timetable for transition to full membership, Britain will apply the complete mechanisms of the Common Agricultural Policy from 1st February 1973. Britain could not apply the Common Agriculture Policy and still maintain her obligations under UKATA. The future of British preferences in Australia will be determined at the time by the Australian Government. Against this background the answers to the questions are: 
and (b) In 1970-71 imports into Australia from Britain which received a margin of preference are estimated to have been valued at about $750m or 85 per cent of total imports from Britain. $570m or 65 per cent of total imports into Australia from Britain entered dutyfree. 
and (d) In 1970 imports into Britain from Australia which received a margin of preference were valued at $A2l4m or 38 per cent of total imports from Australia. However, almost all Australian goods entered Britain free of duty. 
I have heard many comments from different sections of the community suggesting that the Commonwealth should have taxation laws to assist industry to go to country areas; in other words, in the cause of decentralisation. However, as I am sure the honourable member would know, under the Commonwealth Constitution we cannot discriminate in the application of taxation laws between States or pans thereof. I did read in the Press today, with a great deal of interest, that the Victorian Government has decided to introduce a scheme of giving payroll tax rebates for industries that move to country areas. I think it is a most commendable idea and I congratulate that Government for being the first to introduce it. Only in the last year have State governments been able to move in this area, the Commonwealth having handed this taxing power back to the States which can use it however they wish. We in the Commonwealth have used payroll tax as a means of increasing exports. We have used it as an incentive device to help develop overseas markets and to encourage the development of export industry. This scheme has been operating for a number of years and I think it has achieved remarkable results in encouraging manufacturing and primary processing industries to get into the business. If the same result can be achieved at the State level, then I think it is a really encouraging step in helping effective decentralisation. 
by leave - Honourable members will be aware that there have recently been, or are in prospect, some important developments which will have a significant effect on world trade in the years ahead. It is becoming increasingly clear that international trade is entering upon a new era. Its characteristics are likely to be markedly different from those experienced in the past. It is possible, too, that there may need to be some changes in the institutional framework in which the world economy has functioned over the last 25 years. Australia cannot remain unaffected by major changes in the rest of the world. It is too soon to chart these changes in detail but some of the salient features are already visible. I have thought it appropriate, therefore, to provide honourable members with a background statement of the broad issues which will influence Australia's trade policies in the 1970s. 
Let me make it quite clear at the outset that I am confident that we will be able to meet the challenges ahead provided we follow soundly-based policies and have careful regard to our real national interests. The record of the past decade testifies to our ability as a nation to adapt to changes in our trading environment. A few simple facts will serve to illustrate this. Ten years ago our exports totalled $2,1 50m. In the year just ended - 1971-72 - they reached a record $4,900m - up 130 per cent. A decade ago, when Britain first was negotiating to enter the European Economic Community, some 19 per cent of our exports were sold to Britain. Now, with Britain on the point of entry into the EEC, the proportion has fallen to 9 per cent. The trade surplus of $895m in 1971-72 was also an all time record. We have also, successfully diversified our trade in terms of items exported, as well as countries. Exports of manufactures have grown from $244m 10 years ago to over $950m last year - from 12 per cent of Australian exports then to 20 per cent now. We have seen a rapid expansion of our new exportorientated mining industries. New markets have been found and developed for the traditional mainstay of our export earnings, the rural industries. 
I am sure all honourable members will join me in paying tribute to the hard work put in by Australian exporters in achieving these results. I know that they, for their part, would be the first to recognise the contribution made by the development of sound Government policies to assist them in their export activities. Measures such as the export incentives scheme, the provision of export finance and insurance, the expansion of the Trade Commissioner Service, the negotiation of bilateral trade agree ments and international commodity arrangements, trade promotion and publicity and so on, have played a vital part in our export performance. It is very reassuring to face the future with such a record of solid achievement. 
I heard a radio report of the Bank of New South Wales quarterly report only this morning. In its report the Bank of New South Wales stated that it was against a revaluation of the currency because of the deleterious effects it would have on rural and mining industries. I think this typifies the attitude of any commercial body which has close contact with industry and knows the consequences of any revaluation of the currency. This Bank has enormous accounts in the rural areas and in the mining field. It knows the difficulties that people in these industries are undergoing and it knows just how disastrous revaluation would be at this particular time. Even though it is not terribly well qualified it has done very well in reaching this decision and it was reached because the Bank had its feet on the ground. I am interested to note that the 
Australian Labor Party is now justifying its position on revaluation on the basis that it is better qualified intellectually to make a judgment. One of the interesting things shown in the history of the Labor Party is that whenever there have been currency alterations the Labor Party has always moved for depreciation. This has been its attitude at times when the Labor Party has had great leaders - I will give it credit for that - men who have come up through the ranks and who understand the problems of employment, industry and keeping the economy going. But now there is a new sort of Labor Party which seems to be controlled by the intellectuals. Anybody who has the audacity to have a counter point of view to theirs is ill-educated. It is nice that the Leader of the Opposition is a man of letters, and we know that he is a great scholar in the courts but, my word, that is small compensation for being a man amongst men. 
Pursuant to section 37 of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act 1970 I present the Second Annual Report of the Australian Industry Development Corporation for the period 1st July 1971 to 30th June 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The first discussions on this matter between Commonwealth and the State Ministers responsible for tourism were held at the Tourist Minister's Council meeting on 14th-15th July 1970. At the time I answered the honourable member's question without notice on 16th August 1972 the most recent discussions wilh the States were those held at a meeting of Tourist Ministers on 10th- 11th July 1972. 
For the honourable member's information, the matter was again discussed at the meeting of Tourist Ministers on 18th August 1972. 
The following answer is provided to the honourable member's question: 
The current export incentives legislation expires on 30th June 1973, and a review is at present being conducted to determine what arrangements might apply from that date. 
Japan and the United States of America concluded an agreement on 9th February 1972, which took the form of a joint declaration by Japan and the United States on international economic relations. That agreement made no mention of increasing duties on imports nor of any other action which might breach the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. 
Schools: Science Laboratories (Question No. 62C0) 
by leave - As foreshadowed in my recent statement to the House on international trade I wish to give details of certain tariff action that will be taken by Australia following the expected determination of the United KingdomAustralia Trade Agreement (UKATA) The position is that once Britain assumes its obligations to the enlarged European Economic Community, she will be unable to continue to carry out her obligations under UKATA. This has long been recognised by both Britain and Australia and I have agreed with British Ministers that, on the current timetables of accession to the EEC, UKATA will have to be terminated as from 1st February 1973. I have, however, agreed with British Ministers that the existing contractural benefits to both parties should be maintained up to that date. I have also agreed with them that there should be close consultation in the future to ensure that the inevitable changes consequent on Britain's entry to the EEC will be made with the minimum of inconvenience to the traders of both countries. With this in mind, I announced on 28th July 1972, that it had been agreed under an exchange of notes between the British and Australian governments that, with effect from 31st December 1972, the required notice for the termination of UKATA had been reduced from 6 months to 1 month. I now table this exchange of notes. 
As from 1st February 1973 Australia will be free of the obligation entailed in this Trade Agreement. I have already indicated publicly that one step which would be taken very early by Australia would be the withdrawal of the preferences enjoyed by the United Kingdom on imports under the by-laws in the Australian customs tariff. It is the intention of the Government to implement this withdrawal as from 1st February 1973 and notice is given now so that traders involved may be aware of this change well in advance. On 1970-71 figures this would save Australian industry duty payments of some $21m on by-law imports valued at S285m from the general tariff countries. Moreover, general tariff countries will receive duty free treatment in the by-law area over a further import market of some $220m. This is the value of 1970-71 imports from Britain under the assistance of a by-law preference. The increased competition between supplying countries in this area should be of substantial benefit to Australian industry. I therefore regard the withdrawal of the by-law preferences as a significant cost saving measure. 
This will be the first of a series of adjustments to the preferential rate structure in the Australian tariff. Last year the Government received from the Tariff Board a report on 800 items in the non-protective area; it has asked the Board for a report by the end of this year on a further 1,000 items on which the margins of preference are greater than we are contractually required to extend. These reports will be considered by the Government early next year with 2 considerations in mind - the scope they offer for cost saving benefits and for negotiating coin for the exchange of concessions in multilateral trade negotiations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. I repeat the assurances already given that the outcome of these broad ranging inquiries will not be injurious to the established Australian industries. 
It also follows that for most items covered by Tariff Board reports released after 1st February 1973 a single rate of duty will apply The only exceptions will be where preferences are accorded on a range of specified items to those Commmonwealth countries, such as Canada and New Zealand, with which Australia has bilateral preferential agreements, or where preferences are given to Papua New Guinea or, on a limited range of items, to former or existing dependencies of the United Kingdom. We are already discussing with New Zealand and Canada the question of the future of the preferences they enjoy in Australia. The importance of the preferences accorded to Papua New Guinea and the former  or  existing British territories is also fully recognised and if, after examination, it appears to the Australian Government that some action is necessary in relation to those preferences, discussions will be held with the particular territories concerned. In addition, of course, special rates under the Australian system of preferences for developing countries will continue to apply. In the context of the process of review of the tariff one result will be the eventual elimination of margins of preference currently enjoyed by the United Kingdom. I present the following paper: 
 I am very pleased to be associating myself with the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and in some ways with some of the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  although I am sorry that he has expressed them in somewhat of a sour tone. But 1 have no desire to be provocative or to antagonise members on this issue. Tonight marks an historic occasion, when the Commonwealth has declared a policy in relation to urban development and decentralisation. I do not think there would be much difference of opinion between any honourable members in this House that the major problems facing Australia today concern the congestion of the cities and their allied problems, and the lack of development of country areas and the lack of job opportunities and so on for people living in those areas. The problems of both areas are virtually related, namely, how to relieve the growth pressures in the city and how to give encouragement to the establishment of more industries in the country. I am very pleased to know that there is a high degree of harmony on both sides of the House on this question. 
The Leader of the Opposition sought more information than was contained in the Prime Minister's statement. It is not possible to dot all the i's and cross all the t's at this early stage. To implement a national policy will take the complete and co-operative support of State governments. Of course, in involving State governments there will be a need to involve local government authorities. I should like to say more about the siting of these new growth centres presently. 
The statement which the Prime Minister has made this evening marks the beginning of a major attack on the imbalance of population and industry which has plagued this nation for a long time. A great deal of work has been carried out by officers of State and Commonwealth departments. A report has now been presented to the Commonwealth Government. A lot of work has gone on between Commonwealth departments, such as the Department of Trade and Industry, the Department of Shipping and Transport, the Department of the Interior, the Treasury and the Prime Minister's Department, in examining this matter closely, for it is a matter of great complexities. We want to see success. I regard the measures that the Prime Minister has announced tonight as amongst the most far-reaching and significant steps ever taken by an Australian government. For many years the people of country areas in Australia, and particularly my own Party, have fought for decentralisation. They have made some worthwhile gains with the help of State governments and with some indirect help from the Commonwealth. But not until now has the urgency of the situation been understood by the great mass of Australians who live in our major cities. Today the problems of pollution, crowding, stress and cost have brought home to most Australians th: fact that decentralisation is an urgent national necessity. In tonight's statement, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has firmly set the Commonwealth on a course we believe will lead to a substantial degree of correction of this major problem in our national development. 
The change of direction in the historical pattern of our development to which we are now committing ourselves will not be achieved without great difficulty. In the interests of saner development and a more sensible use of our national resources,  1  hope all Australian governments, all Australian political parties and the whole of the Australian people will work together in the spirit of co-operation which will be needed to make this new approach succeed. There is not the slightest doubt that we must make it succeed. Failure in this new line of attack will not only perpetuate and intensify our existing lop-sided development pattern, and thus make even worse the problems of the future, but also it will set back for a long time - perhaps make irretrievable - our opportunity to make Australia an example to the world of sensible national development in action. The proposals outlined by the Prime Minister will, of course, be be worked out as to their details in the fullest co-operation and consultation with the State governments. The proposals in themselves cannot alter the constitutional situation of the States having the authority and the powers to implement the physical aspects of the kind of programme we envisage. 
The programme is based on 2 main lines of attack. They call for a new method of planning the development of our major cities, and for a new concept for Australia - selective decentralisation, or the fostering of growth centres. I have no doubt that there will be people who will say we should try to prevent further major growth of our big cities, and direct all new growth into other areas of the nation. While there  is  some attraction in such a proposition, I think we must be realistic enough to accept the fact that we cannot completely block further growth in our capital cities. Having accepted that fact, we must then look for ways of directing the metropolitan growth that will inevita bly occur into the best possible paths. The urban development aspects of the programme announced tonight will make such a new approach possible. 
The other main line of attack, and the one which, because of my special interests and the interests of my Party, gives me particular cause for satisfaction, is the Government's plan to strongly support the growth-centre concept. Here again, the regional development aspect of the programme will be founded on 2 main lines of approach. Firstly, we will be looking for a continuation of, and if possible further development of, the existing measures which the State governments use to encourage decentralisation of industry on a generalised basis. By this I mean those measures which induce industry to establish in whatever decentralised location it feels best suited to do. 1 believe it is vital that this approach continue so that industry can be attracted to cities and towns all over Australia where the natural advantages and the facilities provided can make such decentralisation effective and useful. 
But the major new Commonwealth initiative involves the superimposition on the existing measures of a new policy involving the growth-centre concept. This concept is accepted world-wide and by every authority in Australia as the only means of achieving the kind of really large-scale decentralisation which will make a significant impact on our national population imbalance. I am the first to acknowledge that the selection of growth-centres will create difficulties. It will create difficulties for politicians who will be faced with competing claims for selection of growth centres in various regions. We must not run away from these difficulties; in the national interest, we cannot,. What must happen, in my view, is that growth centres must be selected according to criteria which are carefully determined to achieve the gest possible results in the overall national interest. The establishment of a national authority and an advisory committee or committees, as described by the Prime Minister, will I believe make this approach possible. 
May I say how delighted I am to see that  Sir John  Overall has been invited to be  chairman  of this national authority.  Sir John  Overall would be the most experienced and competent authority in this nation to develop such a programme.  Sir John  Overall is the man whose work lies behind the modern concept of Canberra - the man who has been in charge of Canberra's development since 1958 - and I believe great credit rests on him for the magnificent job that he has done. He is a man who has also won great recognition by State governments and has been consulted from time to time with some of their developmental projects. 
The programme outlined tonight by the Prime Minister marks an historic new direction not only in our approach to our population and industry patterns, but also to our traditional federal relationships. I believe that the Australian people will see in this programme the chance to achieve a different kind of Australian development and, indeed, a new kind of Australian living. I believe we can achieve through this programme a new understanding of what quality of life can mean. We can show the world how a sensible nation can go about the kind of development the modern world and the modern needs of man and the demands of his environment require. I look to the Australian people to make this programme work, and I will do all in my power to educate and to help increase the public's understanding of this new national policy. I look forward to all members of this Parliament doing likewise. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The expenditure on printing by the Australian Tourist Commission for the latest year for which annual figures are available was $74,149. in 1971-72. 
Yes. Discussions have taken place between the Australian Tourist Commission and the Australian Government Printing Service about the possible use of the Commonwealth Government's printing services including the sale of some publications produced by the Commission. Further discussions will be held in the near future. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act 1956-71 I present the Sixteenth Annual Report of the Corporation for the year ended 30th June 1972 together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
In a recent examination of an industrial research and development incentive for Australian manufacturing and mining industries the Government considered the question of assistance for individual inventors. 
The Government decided that the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act, which has been specifically designed as a general incentive for industry to encourage more manufacturing and mining companies to spend more of their own funds on  IR&amp;D  activities was not an appropriate vehicle by which individual inventors might receive specific attention. 
For 1971-72 the Government has, however, made available a matching grant of 12,000 to the Inventors' Association of Australia to promote the cause of Australian inventors. 
A number of commercial organisations have been established to promote and finance developments based on scientific or technological innovation in any field of technical activity. They also offer a wide range of services to individual inventors. 
Services provided by Government departments and organisations, such as the Patents Office, the Department of Trade and Industry and CSIRO, are also available to individual inventors. 
I did not hear the name of the product referred to by the honourable member in his question. I will read his question in Hansard and give him a reply. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Used, second-hand or disposals four-wheel drive vehicles were made subject to import licensing control in 1967. This action was brought about by increasing imports into Australia of disposals four-wheel drive vehicles which were being offered for sale at very low prices and thereby threatening to damage an important sector of the Australian motor vehicle industry. 
In implementing this decision of the Government it was decided that the import licensing control would apply to vehicles falling within item 87.02.13 of the Tariff in the belief that four-wheel drive vehicles would not be entered under other tariff classifications. 
However, following the importation of some disposals four-wheel drive vehicles into Western Australia under Tariff Item 87.03, it became apparent that the Government's announced intentions in this area were not being carried out by restricting import licensing to tariff item 87.02.13. 
Action was therefore taken to correct this anomaly by amending the import licensing regulations on 2nd September 1971 so that used, secondhand or disposals four-wheel drive vehicles falling within Tariff Items 87.02, 87.03, and 87.04 became subject to import licensing. 
Yes. 
The Tasmanian Supply and Tender Board had already placed a firm order for a small number of four-wheel drive fire engines before the import licensing regulations were extended to embrace Tariff Item 87.03.100 'fire engines'. Under these circumstances permission was given for these vehicles to enter Tasmania, but the Supply and Tender Department in Tasmania was advised that import licences will not in future be granted for vehicles of this type. 
There has been a Tariff Board inquiry into certain sections of the textile and clothing industries and the Government has made an announcement that it will delay implementation of the recommendations until it can find out whether it is possible to negotiate voluntary restraints with certain countries that have been putting pressure on our local industry because of the importation of their goods. The Government undertook negotiations with these countries but found that it was not possible to come to a totally satisfactory situation with all the countries involved. So an announcement was made some  2  weeks ago that tariff quotas would now be applied to these goods. The reaction that I have had already from the Australian industry has been a very satisfactory one. It greatly appreciates this new approach to providing a degree of protection to Australian industry and I have been told that one of the very large firms has now deferred or cancelled plans to put off employees that it was considering before I made the annoucement 
My Department became involved in this matter early in the year - I do not know what month it was - and then became further involved in it as a result of representations from both sides of the House. I think the honourable member himself made representations on it in May. The role of the Office of Secondary Industry in the Department of Trade and Industry was mainly to provide a liaison service between the Australian Gas Light Company and the Australian companies that might be suppliers of the type of equipment necessary for the construction of this pipeline and the distribution lines. Our efforts have been to see that the Australian companies were given an opportunity to tender for the work that was to be carried out. My Department has been told by AGL that it provided the necessary specifications for Australian firms to tender but they have not been able to fulfil the specifications required. 
Well, I do not think there was any question that the Australian industry could not supply all the large diameter piping and I think the Australian industry accepted this. Our main objective was to see whether part of the contract could be supplied by Australian firms. But up to this point of time the Australian Gas Light Company has said that the specifications have not been satisfactory and so it has given a contract to a Japanese firm. However, I am led to believe that within that contract there is still the opportunity for some Australian supply and discussions are taking place at the moment - I believe there will be further discussions this afternoon - between the Australian industries and the Australian Gas Light Company in a hope that part of the contract will go to Australian firms. It is certainly my hope and desire that Australian firms will be able to get part of the contract. 
It is a pity that some people try to get trade and politics mixed up together because, as had already been demonstrated in this House, a good deal of harm and embarrassment has been caused to one major Australian industry by political interference and suggestion. This Government certainly is trying to keep the 2 areas separate. Trade between Australia and the People's Republic of China is progressing very successfully, probably with the only exceptions of only wheat and zinc. It is interesting to look at some of our export figures. The figures for many of our exports are the highest we have had. For instance, the sale of manufactured goods is up to $7.6m this year, which is the highest figure we have had for manufactures. This is related largely to iron and steel and organic chemicals. We see also that our sales of processed primary products are up to $22m this year compared with only $1.7m last year. If we look back over the years we find that these sales have never been higher than about $4m. This is an indication that we are having remarkable success in trading a variety of products with China. 
It will be seen that we have sold $7. 6m worth of pig iron to China. We have done reasonably well this year with the sale of wool. This includes washed wool, scoured wool and tops. We sold $500,000 worth this year whereas we had not sold that amount in the previous 2 years. We have sold $9m worth of aluminium this year compared with only $400,000 last year. We have sold $5m worth of tallow this year whereas previously we had sold only a few hundred thousand dollars worth. These figures are a fair indication that our businessmen who are at the Canton Fair are doing reasonably well. Our wool sales in this recent year to which I keep referring - 1971-72 - amounted to $6.3m compared with $2.4m the previous year. So in almost every area our sales have increased. Of course, we have succeeded in making 2 sales of sugar to China where we have never had sales before. The honourable member for Dawson made a plea to this House not to get politics tied up with trade because it might interfere with the sale of sugar. That was pretty good advice but it is a pity that he had not realised this when he was talking about wheat. 
It is obvious that there is a very good trading link between the 2 countries. It is our aim to normalise that trade as much as possible. My Department has given every encouragement and help to Australian firms. The Department has put out a booklet giving them full advice on how to make contact with Chinese agencies. We have encouraged Australian businessmen to go to the Canton Fair each year, and something like 100 businessmen have gone. My Department keeps in close contact with the Chinese marketing agencies in Hong Kong so that there is an exchange of information to enable trade to take place on normal conditions. 
An application has been received from United Bearing Corporation Pty Ltd for temporary protection pending a full examination by the Tariff Board. This application for Special Advisory Authority assistance is being examined by the Department and as soon as I have received a report from the Department I will be able to make a further statement. 
Australia has been doing remarkably well in exports of meat over the past 12 months. Indeed, some people were anxious lest the increase of stock in Australia might be such that we would be unable to export all that we produced. The facts are that we are doing extremely well on the American market and until now have exported to that market 273,000 tons. Our quota before restraints were lifted in June was 268,000 tons, so we have already exceeded that figure and still have a couple of months to go. Our exports of beef and veal to Japan have also been very satisfactory. For the year completed in June our exports to Japan were up by SO per cent on the previous year. Our exports of mutton to that market also are up by something like 70 per cent. The European market is showing keen interest. Meat prices in Europe are very high and we have sold one-third more meat to the United Kingdom over the last 12 months than we did in the previous year. Other markets for mutton are developing, especially in the Middle East and in some of the South American countries, and we are also establishing a trade in beef and veal with Chile. All told the market prospects look exceedingly encouraging for Australian exporters. This is mainly because we can meet many of the quarantine requirements of other countries and, fortunately, the industry has endeavoured to maintain the hygiene standards required of their works. There has been a continuing programme implemented by successive Ministers for Primary Industry to encourage Australian processors to lift the standards of their works to meet the increasingly high world standards. We seem to be able to meet most of these standards and it is for this reason that our performance is so satisfactory. 
 I move: 
A statement has been put out by the  Chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board,  Mr Cass,  that a contract has been negotiated with the People's Republic of China for 1 million tons of wheat to be delivered during 1973. I think all of us are delighted that the Wheat Board has been able to negotiate this contract. It is evidence of growing goodwill and the improvement in our relations with the People's Republic of China. On Tuesday last I stated in this House that we had been having remarkable success in selling a wide range of commodities to China, with the exception of wheat and zinc in relation to which sales had either gone down or we had not made sales in recent years. To have made this sale now is a continuation of the excellent performance and the relations of the Wheat Board with China during most of the decade of the 1 960s. I think this sale proves a number of points. It proves that the Government has been trying to maintain good trading relations with China. It was unfortunate that previously we did not make wheat sales to China, but this was probably for a number of reasons. 
I think one of the most degrading and disgusting performances we have seen in Australian politics has been the way in which the Labor Party has continually tried to make politics out of this issue. We have made it clear that we want to continue trading. There are difficulties between the 2 countries in being able to finalise any decision on diplomatic relations because of the position of Taiwan. We have tried to maintain an honourable and respected position in relation to that country, and we will continue to do so. We have a policy of loyalty to friends and people and we will try to maintain that loyalty. But there is a real, keen desire to get into closer relationship with China. When I was asked last night how I had reacted I said that I was delighted and that it proved a number of points, but I did not go any further because 1 did not really want to make politics out of it. Having read some of the comments in the newspapers today - especially one - I think I would be negligent in my duty if I did not comment on it. That was the statement by the shadow Minister for Primary Industry, the honourable member for Dawson, who is reported to have said that he was 'absolutely delighted'. The report states: 1  am not surprised'  Dr Patterson  said. 
We have been expecting an announcement for several months that wheat sales would be resumed.' 
Exactly 5 weeks ago the honourable member for Dawson put out a lengthy statement to the effect that no sales would be made to the People's Republic of China while the Australian Government maintained a hostile attitude towards the Government of that country. He said that, knowing that there was every likelihood of a sale. But the great sin in his statement is that he deliberately told the world that this Government had a hostile attitude towards the People's Republic of China. In other words- 
The honourable member, on behalf of his Party, has deliberately tried to give to the world a distorted impression of this country's attitude to the People's Republic of China, and he did so knowing full well, or saying now that he knew, that a sale would be made. This is a very degrading performance by the alternative Minister for Primary Industry. 
I will conclude by saying that the wheat growers and Australia as a whole must now understand just how far the Australian Labor Party will go in playing politics at their expense. 
I think I have answered this question adequately in the last few days and have revealed that our performance has been very satisfactory, especially in relation to other countries. During the 1960s, of course, Australia was amongst the first 5 major traders with the People's Republic of China. We were one of the largest sellers, if not the largest seller, of wheat to that country. Only when a number of issues came to bear, such as the People's Republic having a greater capacity to produce more wheat and possibly the policital interference and embarrassment that the Opposition caused, were we prevented from being able to make satisfactory arrangements with that country. 
I hear the honourable member for Fremantle interjecting. He says that my own performance was the cause of a lack of sales. I take up the challenge on what I said at that performance - that I did have principles and that I was not prepared to sell my soul- (Opposition members interjecting) 
by leave - We have just listened to what I think is one of the most pharisaic statements ever made in this House. 
Pharisaic- sheer hypocrisy. To put it in language that honourable members opposite might understand, it was one of the most hypocritical, parsimonious statements I have heard come from the honourable member for Dawson. He is embarrassed and red-faced because he has been proved wrong. All he has done during the course of the last 2 years has been to be a mischief maker as regards the relationship between the Australian Wheat Board and the People's Republic of China. If anything, he has made trade with China more difficult. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I think the unfortunate thing about the honourable member for Dawson making a personal explanation is that he has deliberately again tried to bring a political aspect to our trade relations with China and has endeavoured to exacerbate our relations with that country. He is continuing to say that this country is hostile to the People's Republic of China. Only 5 weeks ago a statement was put out by the honourable member. Although he is reported in a newspaper today as having said that he had been expecting for the last 3 months that we would make a sale and that he was delighted, his statement of 5 weeks ago was as follows: 

 Dr Patterson said the recent statement by Chou En-lai assuring Canada of long term wheat sales with China is clear evidence that China will not buy any wheat from Australia as long as the Australian Government continues its policy of hostility to China. 
There have been some remarkable changes in attitude on the part of the Opposition in the last 5 weeks. The facts of the matter, as we have been saying all along, are that if we can normalise trade, if we can prevent embarrassment through political factors such as those which the Opposition has been playing with, we will trade with that country. The facts is that we are trading and we want to trade. We want to build up better relationships with China. This is not only a demonstration that we can sell any commodity to China, but also that China wants to improve its relations with us and we want to improve our relations with that country. A continuation of the performance we have just heard from the honourble member for Dawson will jeopardise our chances to achieve those goals. 
He made some remarks about me and I retaliated. Goodness me, have I not some reason or justification for retaliating in view of the accusations he has made in this Parliament over the past 2 years, including a censure motion on me personally while I was out of the country? He knew after his trip to China that he was wrong and one member of his Party has said publicly that he was wrong. But has there been one word of apology from him? No. He has remained silent and is prepared to allow the stigma to attach to me. Well, there is always a day of retribution and this is the day of retribution. I think that what is worrying the Labor Party is that it is grievously embarrassed. It has displayed to the Australian wheat growers and to the Australian public just how wrong it has been. 
by leave. - On behalf of the Australian Country Party I state how much we have appreciated 16 years of loyal devotion by the honourable member for Mallee, largely as the Whip of our Party in helping us to perform our duties in this House and in co-ordinating activities. As the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has rightly said,  Sir Winton  Turnbull is a most remarkable man - an unusual man. He has shown a devotion to this Parliament and to his Party which I believe is unequalled. 
 We have listened with interest to the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  stating the point of view of the Australian Labor Party in relation to a part of a contract for a great national project being given to Japan. He speaks most appealingly about what Labor would do about a national fuel supply system, a system which would control and direct the production, supply and price of gas in Australia. In other words, the Labor Party believes in a nationalised system of fuel supply in this country. Whilst this might have some appealing overtones for some people it does oversimplify the many problems that we have under a federal system in bringing such a proposal about and into reality if it were the wish of a government to do so. What the Labor Party has said here this afternoon points up some basic and fundamental differences between the Opposition and the Government on ' issues which, I believe, are paramount if we hope to maintain a system of free enterprise in this country. 
The Labor Party challenges the basic principles under which free enterprise operates. It has served notice on Australian industry that a Labor Government would tell it how to run its affairs. It is as simple as that. A Labor Government would tell Australian industry how to make the decisions which this Government believes should be commercial decisions. A Labor Government would interfere with normal commercial processes and judgments which should be the preserve of industry itself. The Labor Party, apparently, whether in office or not, would support duress being applied on individuals or industry if the Labor Party did not like what was being done. Australians should be warned and put on notice of this dictatorial attitude. This Government believes that it should not intervene in normal commercial judgments and decisions. However, it does believe that it has a responsibility to the Australian people to do everything that it is proper for it to do to ensure that Australian industry is given the maximum opportunities to participate in Australian projects. The Government accepts this responsibility and has done its utmost to fulfil it. 
My Department became involved in the question of the supply of pipes for the Gidgealpa-Sydney pipeline some months ago. I have stated already in this House that honourable members on both sides had raised the issue and that my Department was involved. The Department acted as a liaison service between the Australian Gas Light Co. and Australian industry in an effort to ensure that industry in Australia was given a chance to participate to the maximum extent in this project. It has never been suggested that Australian industry was capable of meeting the full requirements of AGL for this pipeline, and I do not think the Opposition would question this. We had hoped all along that it would be possible for Australian suppliers to provide that part of the order which they were capable of providing. But I would be most reluctant to take this matter to the stage where the Government was in effect directing an Australian company on where it should place some of its business. This seems to be a matter now of a philosophical difference between the Government and the Australian Labor Party. Naturally we all want to see Australian industry given the maximum opportunity to develop and to participate in Australia's development. 
The national spirit which prompts people to take a simplistic stance of patriotism in this matter is, perhaps, very commendable. But this approach seems to overlook some very important factors. One that I have mentioned already is the right of Australian business to make its own decisions on commercial matters within the framework of our existing laws. There are technical considerations as well. I am not qualified to express an opinion on the technical matters involved in this question, and I think very few honourable members in this House would be so qualified; but all of us would agree that one of the fundamental criteria in the matter is that of safety. AGL carries an enormous responsibility to ensure that no risks are taken and that the service is as dependable as possible. I refer honourable members to a statement in today's Press reported to have been made yesterday by the  Chairman  of 
AGL,  Sir William  Pettingell. It was quoted by the honourable member for Lalor.  Sir William  said: 
It can be extremely disappointing to find when you start to talk about national codes and national standards that those people to whom we should have looked responsibly in the professional sense were prepared to sacrifice their integrity and virtually thrust on the community standards which would have been, I believe, letting down the community. 
These are very strong words by  Sir William  Pettingell, but they underline the insistence of AGL upon the highest standards of safety in the construction of this pipeline in the interests of the Australian people. A further consideration must be the consumer of the gas that will be carried by the pipeline. Surely it is of great importance that the consumer should get the best possible service at the most economical price. The  3  million to  4  million people that this pipeline could service must be fully recognised and considered. Here again, how this objective is to be achieved must be a matter of commercial judgment. I doubt very much whether it can be achieved by a government telling an industry what its purchasing policy should be, and certainly it should not be achieved by the Australian Labor Party inciting the trade union movement to be the arbitrator by using its power of industrial threat to determine the matter. I would think that a very important factor in providing an economic service to the consumer would be an insistence at the outset upon the highest possible quality standards in pipeline construction. We have all heard of the serious problems which have arisen in other countries with pipeline breaks and so on. I commend AGL for its attitude of insistence on high quality standards. No Australian should condone a lesser attitude to such a matter as this. I note also  Sir William  Pettingell's claim that there is no proven capacity in Australia for making the quality of steel or pipe required for a trunk pipeline that would not fail. 
While in some ways I welcome this debate as a means of explaining to the Australian people some of the circumstances of this matter, in other ways I am concerned about it. Over the last few days discussions have been going on, as I mentioned in the House yesterday, between AGL and Australian industry with a view to reaching the objective which all of us want to see reached, namely, the maximum opportunity for Australian industry to participate in this project. I would be very disappointed if anything we did in this House today were in any way to jeopardise the successful outcome of these discussions. My hope is that the outcome will result in 3 things: Firstly, that Australian industry will be given sufficient of the contract to absorb to the full extent its capacity to meet the requirements of the project; secondly, that in the interests of the Australian consumer a gas service will be provided at the most economical price; and, finally, that this great national project be commenced as soon as possible because it is of national importance and because it would be helpful in taking up the slackness in employment. I think that many people have overlooked the fact that this project is a very big one, involving much more than the particular trunk pipeline we are discussing. The cost of the 34-inch trunk pipeline has been stated as being $S4m. 
But the total expenditure on the pipeline for this project is estimated to be about $150m. Is that Australian or United States? 
Well, it shows that the cost of the trunk line is an even smaller proportion of the overall project. What we have been told by the company is that SO per cent to 60 per cent of this total cost will be of Australian content. The cost of installing the pipeline is estimated to be $45m to $50m. Wages of Australian workers on the project are expected to be more than $20m. In addition to these factors there is likely to be worthwhile business created in local areas through which the pipeline passes. The lateral and distribution lines will involve also an additional expenditutre of $70m to SI 00m. I am told that most of this work most likely will be of Australian content. Employment and industrial activity will be created by the conversion of the Sydney city supply to natural gas and the conversion of industrial and domestic services to natural gas. All this means that the project will be a very significant one in terms of industrial activity and employment in Australia. I think all of us should be very careful that we in no way interfere with the progress of this project. As I have mentioned, it is of national significance and I think everybody would like to see it proceed as quickly as possible. 
One of the questions which has given rise to a great deal of comment and speculation is whether or not Australian suppliers were given the opportunity to quote for the supply of a 34-inch pipeline as required by AGL. All I can say on this point is that the matter appears to remain in dispute. There seems to be a difference of opinion between AGL and the Australian manufacturers as to the capacity, either existing or potential, to meet the specifications required. No doubt the investigations into the by-law question which are being made by the Department of Customs and Excise will give further information on some of these points. I repeat that the Government has been concerned all along to ensure that Australian industry did have the maximum opportunity to participate consistent with its capacity (o do so. This remains our concern and I hope that the discussions taking place this week will achieve this objective and that the project will commence on schedule. I believe it is scheduled to start at the beginning of 1973 and to be completed in 1974. 
The measures set out in the Tariff Proposal which I have just tabled reflect the Government's concern at the possible sociological and other consequences should there be any further reduction in the level of production of small pitch transmission chain by Renold Australia Pty Ltd at its plant at Benalla. The intent of the proposal is to impose tariff quotas on imports of small pitch transmission chain as a holding action for a period of up to 2 years. In recent years imports of chain have reduced the share of the Australian market held by Renold, and earlier this year the company informed the Government that further reductions in output were in prospect with consequential reductions in levels of employment. 
Chain production at Benalla is of particular significance to that community. Renold's plant provides employment for a considerable proportion of the manufacturing work force in the area and the spending power of the employees makes an important contribution towards the economic wellbeing of the locality. The Government decided that the whole matter should be examined further and that, if necessary, special action should be taken to alleviate the sociological effects that would result from any further contraction of the chain production activity. Discussions were held in Australia and the United Kingdom with senior personnel of the Renold organisation. It was accepted by the company that its present operations at Benalla were uneconomic, an opinion expressed by the Tariff Board in its report of June 1970 on chain and parts therefor, of iron and steel. However the company has indicated that if additional short term assistance was accorded, it would explore the practicability of restructuring its activities into a viable, economic production unit with normal levels of tariff assistance. 
With the possibility of long term viable production being sustained at the Benalla plant the Government decided to introduce tariff quotas to enable the necessary examination to take place. Alternatively, if it is not possible to restructure activities economically and closure is necessary, the holding action provided will permit consideration of alternative measures of assistance to alleviate the consequential sociological effects on the Benalla community. 
Tariff quotas which will apply to both complete chain and to parts therefor will be established on the basis of the value of imports during 1971-72 and will provide for imports above quota levels to be subject to additional duties of $8 per kilogram. Quota levels will be set at 60 per cent of base year imports for complete chain which were subject to normal rates of duty. Separate provision will be made for quotas for component parts that are used in assembly production. Chain and component parts of a type eligible for entry under by-law will not be subject to quota limitations. It is proposed to keep under constant review the effect of the tariff quotas during their operation. 
 I am pleased to participate in this debate. I believe that this statement made on Tuesday night last by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has been well received through out the nation as showing a determination by the Government to do something about the volume of capital inflow into Australia, and also the Government's concern about increasing overseas ownership of Australian enterprises and resources. The debate on overseas investment has been with us for a long time. I have little doubt that it will be with us for a long time yet, no matter what decisions are taken by governments. Even if the Australian Labor Party proposals were adopted the debate would still continue. 
One of the main reasons why it would continue is that many opponents of overseas investment are afflicted with xenophobia - a morbid dislike of foreigners. This is the first point I make in response to the sentiments expressed by the Opposition. Underlying much of the Labor Party's thinking on this subject seems to me to be a large element of xenophobia. There is a distrust of foreign investment just because it is foreign; a willingness to do without the benefits of investment if it is foreign - to cut off the nose to spite the face; a disposition to see foreign investors as being engaged in a Machiavellian plot to subvert Australia. This sort of highly charged emotional thinking should have no part in the formation of the policies of a responsible Australian Government. One of the ideas which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  put forward is the proposition that the Government should take the initiative and ensure that Australian-owned companies get preferred treatment in purchasing, whether by government or by private businessmen. 
A large number of my Country Party colleagues are present. (Quorum formed). I can see that this sort of policy would be very attractive to some people. But it is not self-evident that it is in the real interests of Australia as a whole. It seems to me that Australian owned companies would get preference merely because they are Australian, not because they are more efficient, more competitive or offer better product or service. I suggest that the Labor Party should think hard before it advocates policies which would have the effect of giving business to firms regardless of their competitive ability. 
The third point I make about the Labor Party programme is that it just is not possible to come up with policies on overseas investment at the drop of a hat as the Labor Party has done. Its proposals are an incredibly ill assorted and ill digested programme. They provide clear evidence that the ALP does not understand the way in which business operates or the way in which government operates. The ALP seems to believe that the solution to every problem is to set up government authorities. We have at least half a dozen in this latest programme of the ALP in addition to the Government departments. The end result must be a system of happy bureaucrats but unhappy businessmen who would find their valuable time taken up in doing the rounds of Government institutions to get approvals instead of devoting their energies to the real task of developing Australia through increased efficiency, productivity and exports. 
The issues involved in this matter of overseas ownership and capital inflow are very complex. They involve difficult and subtle economic inter-relationships which are not easy to analyse. They involve sensitive judgments as to future probabilities and the actions of overseas industrialists and financiers. They involve the desire of us all to preserve our Australian entity and yet obtain the benefits we can derive from partnership with overseas skills and resources. Let me make it quite clear that  1  share the concern of all Australians that our ability to control our own destinies is not thwarted by the aspirations of overseas investors but, as the Prime Minister has said, we must be sensible about this. For many years we have held the view that broadly speaking the benefits of overseas investment in terms of adding to our economic strength have outweighed the costs involved. The benefits have been great. The record of growth and development we have achieved in the past  20  years just would not have been possible without foreign investment. 
This very growth, however, has meant that Australia's economic circumstances are quite different from what they were a few years ago. So it has become appropriate  to  look again at our policies for this reason. Moreover, the high level of capital inflow which we have experienced in recent years has raised a new problem for economic management. It just does not make economic sense to perpetuate a system of large net capital inflows and rapidly rising currency reserves. It is the rapid growth of our reserves, due largely to the net capital inflow, that has given rise to the suggestion that the Australian dollar should be revalued. The Leader of the Opposition, of course, has added fuel to the flames by his irresponsible act of throwing the value of the Australian dollar into the area of political speculation. I note that other, wiser members of his Party have rejected his policy, but he keeps on repeating it. The Government has firmly rejected any suggestion that revaluation is appropriate to our current economic circumstances. The decisions announced by the Prime Minister are appropriate to the problems we face. There is a need to act, and to act decisively, and this we have done. The prohibition on short term borrowings overseas, the abolition of borrowing guidelines and the relaxation of restrictions on portfolio investment overseas should help to moderate net capital inflow. The control of foreign takeovers will also help here. 
The other problem - overseas ownership and control - is not, however, capable of being solved so easily. We have announced a screening mechanism for foreign takeovers. This is an important new initiative. We have clearly set out our objectives. In contrast to the ALP proposals we have clearly laid down for all to see the criteria against which the Government will be judging foreign takeover proposals. We believe these to be reasonable and practical criteria which will enable the national interest to be served with the minimum practicable interference in the business community and the rights of shareholders. It should be clearly understood that this new policy will not mean that all overseas takeovers of Australian companies will be stopped. Those that will benefit us will be allowed to proceed and they will be welcomed by this Government. 
However we have adopted a new approach. The fundamental question we will be posing is not whether the takeover will be against our national interest. The question will be whether it will help promote the national interest. It is the strength of our economy - the growth that has occurred with the aid of overseas investors - that enables us now to make this quite fundamental change. 
We will be continuing our examination of the wider issues involved in overseas investment and control of our industries. This is not an easy task. The Government must ensure that any policies it introduces are administratively practical and that they will not endanger the confidence of investors that they will be treated fairly and equitably. We must be quite sure that our proposals will achieve our objectives without endangering our other policies and our overall economic well-being. 
I do not want to anticipate the results of our full review. There are many questions on which we will need to reach a sensitive judgment. But it will be obvious to everyone in this House that we will be considering the question of what guidelines, if any, should be formulated for other forms of direct foreign investment in Australia which serve to increase overseas ownership and control. We will not be approaching this task in any parochial or xenophobic way. We want the benefits of overseas investment and whatever measures we propose will be consistent with this objective. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  would have us believe that this Government sees the answer to the problems of overseas investment solely in restrictive controls. This is a quaint charge to lay against a Liberal-Country Party government. It is under our policies, and with or support, that the Australian capital market has grown to a fair measure of maturity and ability to serve Australian companies' financial requirements. It was with our support that the Australian Resources Development Bank was established. We ourselves set up the Australian Industry Development Corporation which in the short time it has been established has already demonstrated its value to the economy. 
The full review of our policies the Prime Minister has referred to will be encompassing what further steps we might take to help the mobilisation of Australian capital for Australian owned companies. But we realise, as the Opposition evidently does not, that we are dealing in all these questions with some of the key elements in our economic structure and management. It is easy for an Opposition with no experience of government to say what it would do. Those with experience of government know that the task of formulating policies and carrying them out is not easy. Only when we are satisfied that we have sound policies will we announce them. 
The steps the Prime Minister has announced are responsible, they are needed and they are practical. They serve notice on those who would speculate on the value of the Australian currency that they will not be permitted to dictate the course of events. They relax, where appropriate, some of the restrictions which have been placed on Australian companies and investors in recent years. They strike a fair balance between our national aspirations for an Australian Australia and our desire to work in partnership with overseas investors who have so much to offer us in promoting our national economic growth. (Extension of time granted). Partnership - real and effective partnership - with overseas interests in the development of Australia is our aim. I commend these proposals that the Prime Minister has announced to the House. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The table below lists Tariff Board reports that have been received but which, as at11th September 1972, have not yet been tabled. Those references by the Minister for Customs and Excise under the Customs Tariff (Dumping and Subsidies) Act upon which reports have been signed but not yet tabled are included and identified by the term ( D &amp;S). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The table below lists matters under reference to the Tariff Board on which the Board had, as at 11th September 1972, completed public bearings, but had not yet forwarded reports. References by the Minister for Customs and Excise under the Customs Tariff (Dumping and Subsidies) Act are included and identified by the term (D &amp; S). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The table below lists matters under reference to the Tariff Board on which the Board, as at 11th September 1972, had not yet completed public hearings. References by the Minister for Customs and Excise under the Customs Tariff (Dumping and Subsidies) Act are included and identified by the term (D &amp; S), and by-law references by the same Minister by the term (B/L). 
I do not know what moves the honourable gentleman to ask this question other than the fact that there has been an announcement that the Government will introduce colour television in 1975. There have, of course, been discussions between my Department and the electronics industry in relation to the introduction of colour television and the possibility of rationalisation of the manufacture of parts for the production of colour television, but 1 can assure the honourable member that at the moment there are no proposals before my Department for increased protection to the industry. 
Pursuant to section 18 of the Tariff Board Act 1921-1972 I present the annual report of the Tariff Board for the year ended 30th June 1972. The report is accompanied by an annexure which summarises the recommendations made by the Board and shows the action taken in respect of each of them. 
I move: 
That  the  Bill  be now read  a  second time.  The purpose of this Bill is to amend certain provisions of Part 'XII of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1971, containing the overseas cargo shipping provisions. These amendments will enable the Australian Shippers' Council to undertake all negotiations with shipowners and conferences operating in all 'Australian export liner trades. 
Broadly speaking, the overseas cargo shipping, provisions, which we administered by the Minister for Trade and Industry, bring under control restrictive arrangements relating to the carriage of goods between Australia and other countries. They require shipping lines to register with the Government details of conference agreements and to give and observe certain undertakings. Among the undertakings which shipping lines can be required to give the Minister is the undertaking to negotiate with shipper bodies he has designated under the Act. Such negotiations cover both the arrangements for and the terms and conditions of carriage of export cargoes in Australia's overseas liner trades. 
The existing legislation requires the setting up of a separate shipper body for each trade. The Minister, before he designates each shipper body, must be satisfied that its membership appropriately reflects the volume and nature of cargo in the trade. Five such bodies have been formed and designated in relation to the trades from Australia to Europe, to Singapore and west Malaysia, the east coast of the United States of America, the east coast of Canada and the west coast of North America. While these are among our most important trades, shipper bodies have not been formed in relation to some 14 other export trades served by conference arrangements and some of these are quite large and important. 
Various factors have inhibited the formation of shipper bodies in these trades. The principal impediments have been: The practical difficulty of securing participation by exporters in a proposed shipper body where a wide variety of export interests contribute to the cargoes carried; the reluctance of shippers to support several separate shipper bodies operating on an ad hoc, part-time basis, particularly as these make heavy demands on executives' time and require separate financing; the shipment of exports forming a major part of the cargoes carried in a particular trade was controlled by foreign importers; and some export interests dominating a particular trade considered they were better placed to negotiate separately,' ignoring the interests of the minority of shippers. 
The existing legislation makes it mandatory for there to be a designated shipper body before shipping lines are required to negotiate under the provisions of the Act with shippers in a trade. This has meant that Australian shippers in many trades have been unable to require the conferences or shipping lines serving those trades to negotiate formally with them under the provisions of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act. 
In 1971, a study team initiated by a very wide cross-section of export organisations made an in-depth examination of their export shipping requirements. The study team, by arrangement with the then Minister for Trade and Industry, worked jointly with officers of my Department. The study team accepted the basic principles of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act which it regarded as worthwhile to Australian exporters. To overcome the difficulties which militated against the formation of separate shipper bodies in each trade, the study group recommended to me that the existing legislative provisions be amended to allow a nationally constituted Australian Shipper's Council to be the one designated body for negotiations in all trades. It saw such a Council as a national body, fully representative of producers, commodity groups and exporters. It would be backed up by a permanent staff with comprehensive research facilities. The Council would ensure adequate representation of shipper interests in all negotiations with shipowners. 
After considering the study groups' recommendations and reviewing the operations of the shipping provisions of the Act, the Government decided to amend Part XII to give effect to these proposals. This does not entail any change in the present policy that these are matters for commercial negotiation within the framework of the Act. Rather it ensures that all Australian shippers in liner trades could avail themselves of these provisions. The establishment of a single body will avoid the need to establish a multiplicity of shipper bodies in other trades, all attempting to maintain small, duplicatory research secretariats, operating on inadequate finances. I can now inform the House that the Australian Shippers' Council, a body representative of major exporter, commodity and producer interests has been formed and has held its inaugural meeting. It has appointed an executive committee and a full-time Director, all of whom have had extensive experience and a long association with export shipping. The amendments proposed in this Bill will enable the Council to be designated as the sole body to negotiate with shipping conferences and shipping lines in all Australian export liner trades. 1 now refer to the main provisions of the Bill. Clause 5 of the Bill amends section 116 of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1971 by omitting from sub-section (2) the word 'relevant' wherever occurring and inserting in its stead the word 'designated', and by omitting sub-section (5). As amended, section 116 will then permit the Minister to designate a shipper body, and require parties to shipping conferences to undertake to negotiate with that body. In addition, the Bill makes 2 other minor alterations to simplify the administration of the legislation. Clause 5 further amends section 116 of the Act by inserting 2 new sub-sections, (5) and (6). 
The Act at present makes provision for an officer, designated by the Minister, to be present at negotiations conducted under the Act. Under the new legislation, the scope and frequency of such negotiations, by definition, will be greatly extended. The new sub-section (5) will permit the appointment of deputies, who will be able to attend negotiations in his stead and exercise the powers of the designated officer in relation to that particular set of negotiations. The new sub-section (6) simply defines 'the designated officer* and 'the designated shipper body'. Division 4 of Part XII makes provision for situations where a particular route is serviced by a single shipowner instead of by a conference of several shipping lines. The Act provides for such a line to have substantially the same obligations as apply to an ordinary conference. Accordingly, clause 6 of the Bill makes similar amendments to section 122 of the Act to those I have outlined in relation to section 116. 
The Government is satisfied that the designation of the Australian Shippers' Council, by extending negotiations under the Act to all export trades and providing a single research and negotiating body, will substantially strengthen the collective bargaining power of shippers. The Council will speak with a national voice; it will build up a detailed knowledge of all our export trades and those who serve them; it will bring to its task an increasing degree of negotiating expertise. Honourable members will be aware that the Commonwealth has regularly contributed to the finances of shipper bodies set up under .the existing legislation. As the successful operation of the Council is important to the effective implementation of the present policy, the Government has decided that it will continue to provide such financial assistance and has made provision for this purpose in the Budget. The Government is pleased to bring forward these amendments which exporters themselves have recommended. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I answered a question on this subject in the House while the honourable member was away. I said that the restraints on exports of Australian meat to the United States of America had been lifted in June or July and that until about a month ago we had exceeded the initial quota that had been given to us for this year, which was the highest quota we have ever received. We still have 2 months to go. The indications are that a record amount of meat will be exported to the United States this year. In regard to the position for 1973, preliminary discussions are taking place at the moment between officers of my Department and the United States Administration, but it is quite impossible to say what decisions the American administration will make for 1973. Between now and next year there will be a presidential election, and if there were to be any change in the Administration the new administration might have some policy changes to make. With meat prices in the United States rising, even with the heavy increase of imports to that country, the portents are that there may not be any restraints next year or that, if there are restraints, Australia will receive a very substantial quota. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Speaking at a seminar of the West Australian Chamber of Manufactures in Perth on June 7th, I said, 'lt is estimated that a 35-hour week would, on average, add something like 9 per cent to the unit labour cost of production. In some cases it would be less; in others, much more.' I also stated, and repeated it in the House on 12th September 1972 during the debate on the 35-hour week, that in relation to initial pressures for a 35-hour week in highly capital intensive industries, many of which are dominated by international corporations, 'The Government will be looking to these corporations to resist the demand for a 35-hour week. Australians, as a whole, will see the response of these corporations as a real test of how much they are concerned about the welfare and stability of Australia's economy, and of the Australian community.' 
, (3) and (4). As I also said in the House during the debate on the 35-hour week, 'It is hard, of course, to determine the exact impact of a 35- hour week in particular areas, but it is clear that the problems raised by shorter working hours will extend throughout primary industry, secondary industry and various service industries as well as to consumers and, particularly, to people on fixed incomes.' Again, it was stated in this debate that the 35-hour week would add from $2,500m to in excess of $3,000m to the National Wages Bill and, although it is not certain how individual employers or industries would adjust their employment and hours of work in the event of a 35-hour week, it would appear likely that overtime at penalty rates would be worked if labour input was to be maintained at present levels. This would inevitably mean more wage cost pressures and more inflation. 
and (6). I am not aware of any available data which would provide the information sought on these points. 
 in reply - I wish to reply to some of the matters that have been brought up in this debate, especially by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  who led for the Opposition and by some of the members on the Government side. I think some honourable members have been expecting a little too much information from the second reading speech. The amendment of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act relating to overseas cargo shipping really needs to be read in conjunction with the sections of the original Act relating to shipping in order to get all the information that honourable members were seeking. 
One question asked by the honourable member for Newcastle was in relation to more information being provided to the Parliament. He asked that an annual report be tabled. It is true that the Australian Shippers Council will be an autonomous body and will raise its own finance privately. But as the Commonwealth will assist in the operations of the secretariat this shippers' body will need to be subjected to Commonwealth audit. Therefore, an annual report will be presented to Parliament for examination. 
It will not necessarily go into the private affairs of shipowners or shippers because this will be confidential information in most cases. I imagine that where there is an agreement for both parties to provide information in relation to their private affairs that information may he included in the report. 
The Government has supported the conference system of liner shipping in our overseas trade subject of course to the safeguards provided in the Restrictive Trade Practices Act because exporters require regular predictable services with known rates of freight. Determining the rates of freight and other conditions of carriage is a matter of commercial negotiation between shippers and shipowners. The Government has legislated to ensure conferences are obliged to enter into meaningful negotiations with shipper bodies on these matters. But there is no obligation for shippers to ship by conference vessels. 
They are free to obtain and use more competitive shipping arrangements. Indeed, products once carried by liner vessels are today shipped by charter arrangements, now that export volume has increased. But the essentia] fact is that the vast majority of Australian shippers give their continued support of the conference system because it provides predictable and regular services from more than 30 Australian ports to more than 250 overseas ports. The question is: What better alternative is there? 
The honourable member for Newcastle questioned the effectiveness of some of these shipper bodies. May I give the honourable member a few statistics. In the Australia to Europe Conference - the AESA - where a shipper body is operating, general and reefer cargoes in 1972-73 increased by 4 per cent. They are to increase by 4 per cent in 1973-74 and by 4.5 per cent in 1974-75. At the same time, wool cargoes went down by 8 per cent in 1972-73 and by 4 per cent in 1973-74. There will not be an increase in 1974-75. In the east coast to North America conference in 1971 there was no shipper body and there was an increase of 25 per cent in freight. In 1972 when a shipper body was formed there was only a 6.5 per cent increase. The Singapore and West Malaysia conference, where there is a shipper body, sought an increase of 20 per cent this year and the shipper body, after negotiation, got a standstill for 1972 and a 7.5 per cent increase in 1973. 
There are heavy increases in shipping costs. One of the big increases has been in the area of stevedoring charges. At the Australian end, there has been a 40 per cent increase in the costs of stevedoring in recent years. The allegation that Australian shippers are at the mercy of overseas monopolies and cartels is not quite true because it is the Government's policy to strengthen the negotiating position of Australian shipping. This is a policy now being adopted by an increasing number of other countries. The Restrictive Trade Practices Act requires shipowners to negotiate with shipping bodies, to provide to shippers Information which is reasonably necessary for the conduct of negotiations and to permit an officer of my Department to be present at such negotiations and to give consideration to any suggestions made by him. This Bill further strengthens exporters' negotiating capacity and ensures that shipowners of liner trades must negotiate rates of freight and conditions of carriage with the Australian Shippers Council, which will have a permanent, full-time secretariat and research facilities. 
On the question of Australia's own shipping line, the Government reintroduced Australian flag vessels into our overseas shipping services in, I think, 1968. The, Restrictive Trade Practices Act protects the rights of efficient Australian flag operators to enter our overseas trades. Australian owned and privately owned Australian flag vessels are now operating in 4 of our overseas trades. The Government extered into overseas trades to secure experience in new technology and modern ship management and a window into conference operations and costs. This window is used by the Government to keep conferences honest. All the vessels introduced have been modern and technologically advanced. Such vessels demand massive capital investment. One vessel of the Exporter class could cost $25m with containers. With the recent delivery of the 'Australian Exporter' the Government's initial programme is nearing completion and the evaluation of the benefits of the involvement which could be gained by Australia having its own shipping line is now possible. Plans for further expansion can be considered after a soundly based and proven evaluation of our experience and the benefits from operating such a service. 
The Restrictive Trade Practices Act is claimed by some as being nothing more than a paper tiger. Certainly in the area of shipping and conference lines that is not true. It is a very effective instrument in enabling sound negotiations to take place. Determining the complex freight rates and other arrangements for overseas carriage of Australia's diverse exports is properly a matter for commercial negotiation between exporters and shipowners. Government policy has been to strengthen the negotiating position of shippers to ensure meaningful negotiations. This will be furthered by the provisions of this Bill. Shipowners already are obliged by the Restrictive Trade Practices Act to negotiate with shipper bodies, to provide reasonable information, to permit a government officer to be present at such negotiations and keeping him informed of progress and to give consideration to his suggestions. Infringement of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act by conference failure to meet any of the above obligations requires the Minister to consult with parties to the conference and if no satisfaction can be obtained then the matter has to be referred to the tribunal for public inquiry and report. If the tribunal agrees that there has been a breach of the conference agreement, the conference may be disbanded. Then there is no conference, no dual right for freights and the possibility of a fine of up to $50,000  -  one of the heaviest fines imposed by the Commonwealth Government. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  mentioned that an alternative Labor government would bring about the establishment of a commission to handle such negotiations. I should imagine it would be similar to the Federal Maritime Commission that operates in America. 
The Opposition spoke of a commission to handle negotiations. 
-I take back the words United States'. Such a commission could be similar to the Federal Maritime Commission in the United States which does this sort of work, But it has not been found necessary, certainly in Australia, to have a similar organisation to handle our shipping regulations and negotiations. As I have already mentioned, under the Restrictive Trade Practices Act Australia has legislation which places the onus for negotiation where it belongs - with the shipper and the shipowner. 
The formation of the Australian Shippers Council ensured that shippers have access to expert advice and facilities. The Restrictive Trade Practices Act provides for sanctions where necessary. The establishment of regulatory agencies, such as a commission, could lead to the establishment of a layer of bureaucracy and cumbersome administrative legal procedures. In America the Federal Maritime Commission has 20 separate sections in its central office. Any complaint has to be processed through a formal legal hearing system which often takes years before it is completed. The Australian system of commercial negotiation, backed by Commonwealth legislation, appears to be the most appropriate for our circumstances at this time. 
I should like to make one final remark in relation to the allegation that the Australian Dairy Produce Board lost $300,000 by not going outside the conference line to negotiate shipping arrangements for the north bound area - into South Bast Asia and Japan. I think the honourable member for Newcastle was referring to the Orient Overseas Line - OOL - which offered a 10 per cent reduction on what the north bound conference offered. The honourable member and the House should know that the OOL does not serve Japan, nor could it give a guarantee of sufficient refrigerated space in ships going to South East Asia - to such areas as Hong Kong, Taiwan and the Philippines. For this reason the Australian Dairy Produce Board signed with the conference. It did not lose $300,000 as a result of not accepting the OOL proposition. It probably saved itself $300,000 because it would not have got nearly the service and would not have been provided with a guaranteed service which an industry such as the dairying industry, with a highly perishable product, needs. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The rice industry has been fairly sluggish in recent years because of world overproduction and large stocks being held by many of the principal pro ducers, but this year there has been a reversal of circumstances in the rice industry as there has been in nearly every other primary industry. There have been poor seasons in two of the principal Asian producing countries. Stocks are now low and world prices have risen by about 25 per cent. The outlook for the next year or so is very optimistic. I am only sad that Australia is not able to take full advantage of the marketing situation because our crop last year was below average. But in the forthcoming season I think there will be some increase in Australian production. We have, of course, one of the most efficient rice producing industries in the world. It is highly mechanised. It has a reliable source of water and its yields are amongst the highest of any country. So it is good to observe yet another primary industry seeing the future more optimistically than it has in the past. 
I cannot inform the honourable member as to the facts because I am not aware of them. But I would like to say that negotiations are continuing between the Australian Gas Light Co. and Australian manufacturers of gas piping. I am hopeful that an agreement will be reached whereby part of the contract can go to Australian manufacturers. 
In reply to that interjection, I do not think there is any disagreement at all about part of the contract going to overseas firms because in view of its capacity it is impossible for Australian industry to fulfil the whole contract within a reasonable period of time. Nobody is arguing about that. The argument has revolved around whether part of the contract might be taken up by Australian manufacturers and I have stated on behalf of the Government - 
1 am talking about the supply of piping necessary for the line. Negotiations are continuing. I am very hopeful that an arrangement will be made with Australian industry to supply part of the piping. 
I am very interested to hear the honourable member for Lalor interject and ask whether I can be more positive than hopeful. I certainly know how the Labor Party would handle the matter. It would intervene and say: 'This is what you have to have. This is the difference between the way in which we administer the private sector of the economy and the way in which the Labor Party would administer it. The Labor Party has no reservations about a massive bureaucracy intervening into business and telling it what it should produce and how much it should produce. (Opposition members interjecting)- 
I join with the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in expressing appreciation to the many people who have made this session of Parliament a successful one. I congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  on the manner in which you have carried out your job as  Speaker  of this House. I think you have done so with great impartiality and with distinction to yourself. On many occasions your patience has been really tested but you have come through and shown great wisdom and kept order in this House. I thank you for the job you have done. 
Parliament depends on the services of many people; they have been mentioned by the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition. They range from the attendants to the people in the dining rooms, to officers of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the Parliamentary Library and Hansard and to the drivers. All help this place to continue to function. It is hard really to put one's finger on where responsibility starts and finishes. It is the combined support of everybody in this place that really makes it work. I would particularly like to pay a tribute in this last session of the Parliament to the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  and to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  for the way in which they have been able to co-ordinate the work of the Parliament and for the way in which this session has concluded. It has ended in probably the most sensible and orderly fashion that I have seen in my 15 years experience. 
I would like to pay tribute to the many honourable members  -  10 in all - who will be retiring. I think it is the most distinguished and probably the most unusual group of members who have retired from this Parliament since Federation. Firstly I would like to mention the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  who is the father of the House. I think he holds the love and affection of all members of this Parliament for his dedication to the parliamentary system and for his devotion to public life and to the Parliament over a long period of time. I have a particular affection for him. It is a family affection. My father was in this Parliament for many years with the right honourable member and they had a very deep personal association although they were pretty good warriors, apparently, on their respective sides of the Parliament. We will miss the right honourable gentleman. He is a great personality and a great character. He will be remembered by all of us who have shared a period of parliamentary life with him. 
It would not be fair to go through the list of all the other honourable members who are retiring but I would mention 3 members of my own Party. They are  Sir Charles  Adermann,  Sir Winton  Turnbull and  Mr Ceb  Barnes. They have given great service with distinction to the Country Party. On behalf of my parliamentary colleagues I would like to thank them particularly. J would especially like to mention the honourable member for  Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  who has a distinction which I doubt will be equalled in our lifetime. He has spent 26 years in this Parliament and has not missed a day's sitting. That is an outstanding record. I think it is a record in British parliamentary history. I congratulate my colleague on his wonderful example. I doubt whether any of us will ever be able to emulate it. . 
Both the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition have mentioned the services of  Mr John  Ewens, the retiring Parliamentary Counsel, who for a long time has been responsible for drawing up legislation to be presented in this Parliament. In recent years the Office of Parliamentary Counsel has been formed to service this Parliament. As the Leader of the Opposition said, it is important that legislation be drafted as clearly as possible so that members of Parliament can understand it and, more importantly, so that the courts of the country can interpret the law as we wish to see it interpreted. These people do  a  very important job and we thank them for it. Many of them have to work long hours and at weekends to ensure that the legislation is brought before the House on time. 
The Leader of the Opposition also said that few members of the Opposition acknowledged the difficulty of being a Minister and carrying out ministerial duties. Equally, I might say that few of us on this side of the House have an appreciation of the duties of the Leader of the Opposition and his senior colleagues in attacking the Government and being able to expose its weaknesses or its failures. I hope it is an experience that we do not have. If it is au onerous task, we feel sorry for the members of the Opposition and we hope they keep doing it for a long time. The Leader of the Opposition also mentioned the pressures that are placed on our wives and families. 1 join with him in those remarks. I think they are very apt. Tho total responsibility that we have to our electorates, to the Parliament, to committees and what have you, does not leave much time for family life. 
We have an election before us. We must go before the people and present ourselves for examination. We must explain to the people our behaviour and the way we have performed if we are to warrant their support in the new Parliament. Only the people will be able to make the judgment. For the next few weeks we will all have to be fairly humble in seeking their support. I think we need to be humble as members of Parliament and realise that we do not make the decision. The decision is made by the people in our electorates. They are the ones who make the judgment. Anything we do in the next 2 or 3 weeks will not really be the determining factor. The most important factor of all is how we have behaved as individuals or as parties during a period of 3 years. One cannot change one's performance over a short period of time. Most honourable members who come into this House come with a sense of purpose, to do the best job they possibly can for the people they represent and for Australia, but we will now have to answer  to  those people. I hope that all honourable members can be successful so that the members in the new Parliament will be exactly the same as in this one. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the first Annual Report of the AIDC it was stated, inter aiia, that: 
To help preserve Intact the financing of the Australian participation in Robe River, pending sales by the Liquidator who had invited public tenders for MINSEC's holding, AIDC undertook to provide $7.8m as an interim substitute lender for MINSEC which had a commitment to find this sum for Robe. The Corporation's undertaking for the $7.8m was conditional, and AIDC could terminate the arrangement if the shares held by the Liquidator were sold to overseas interests. 
In addition, AIDC joined a group of Australian finance and investment houses in an effort to see whether a competitive Australian bid could be tendered for the Liquidator's holdings, either of Robe River Limited alone, or of all the mining shares up for sale. A composite bid has attractions in that not only might it have preserved Australian ownership and control in the individual companies but it might have allowed these diverse ventures to have been combined into a cohesive new Australian mining development house. 
AIDC did a great deal to assist the group in its studies, and stood ready to provide very substantial bridging finance to enable the group to fund its purchase if it were the successful bidder. 
In the event, the hopes of the group were not realised; most of MINSEC's major portfolio holdings were bought by large overseas mining companies.' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Comprehensive information on overseas ownership and control of these activities is not available. However, information obtained by the Department of Trade and Industry indicates that 16 flour mills, 14 stock feed mills and 63 bread bakeries are owned and/or controlled by overseas interests in Australia at the present time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government established the Australian Industry Development Corporation as a body, set apart from Government with the intention that it conduct its affairs for all practical purposes as if it was a private enterprise company and with the confidentiality of its commercial affairs respected in the normal way. It would not, therefore, be appropriate for me to ask the AIDC to make public the particular information you have requested. However, the following companies have themselves announced publicly that they have had funds provided by, or other financial commitments undertaken or on offer from AIDC: 
 Mr Speaker,  on behalf of the parliamentary members of the Australian Country Party, I congratulate you on your unanimous election to the position of the supreme office bearer of the House of Representatives. I wish you well. I hope that you can fulfil your role with great dignity and distinction, as that role has been carried out by your predecessors. 
In the period in which you were a private member of the House of Representatives, members of the Country Party who were members of those earlier Parliaments knew you and liked you as a person. They believed that you were a man of honour. We believe that you can fulfil the role that has been cast upon you. You have displayed to this House at times a great sense of humour through your interjections. I hope that, when the atmosphere becomes tense and tempers are high, you will be able to draw on this wit to defuse that atmosphere and to maintain order. 
On rare occasions you have demonstrated a degree of unruliness as a private member. I am glad that you have had those few lapses because you will have a degree of sympathy for members who may forget that the forms of this House must be maintained. As long as you dispense justice strictly, fairly and impartially, I can assure you that you will have the support of members of the Australian Country Party. 
I realise that the occupant of the position of  Speaker  faces many responsibilities and obligations. With the assistance, co-operation and help of all honourable members, 1 hope to emulate the good work of my immediate predecessors,  Sir John  McLeay and  Sir William  Aston, in their conduct of the office. They served as  Speaker  of this House for 11 years and 6 years respectively. I believe that they carried out the duties of their office in a manner befitting their responsibilities to both sides of the House. They were completely unbiased - I am serious about this - and I hope in the future to be able to emulate their deeds. 
It was mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition that at times 1 had been unruly. That is true. As a matter of fact I state quite frankly that I have been suspended from this House on 2 occasions, once by  Sir John  McLeay and once by  Sir William  Aston. But I joined  Sir Robert  Menzies and  Sir John  McLeay who also were suspended from this House during their time here. So honourable members can see thai: I joined an heroic throng of people. I conclude by thanking the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  and the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  for nominating me. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa - Prime Minister) -  Mr Speaker,  I have ascertained that it will be  His  Excellency's pleasure to receive you in the Library of the Parliament this day at 2.42 p.im. 
Sitting suspended from 12.7 to 2.41 p.m. (The House proceeded to the Library, and, being reassembled) 
I desire to inform the House that the Parliamentary Party of the Australian Country Party has elected me as its Leader, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  as  Deputy  Leader and the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  as Whip. 
I join with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in supporting the remarks of condolence for former parliamentary colleagues, they being  Mr T.  P. Burke,  Mr J.  Mortimer, the Honourable W. J. F. Riordan and the Honourable H. V. C. Thorby. I agree with the Prime Minister that it is very sad indeed that we commence a 
Parliament having to recall memories of former colleagues but I think that it is most fitting that the activities of these men are recorded and that their contribution to the country, to the Parliament and to their political parties is remembered. 
I knew only 2 of these men -  Mr Bill  Riordan and  Mr Jack  Mortimer. Both were members of the Parliament during my time here and both made notable contributions to the Parliament and left this place with affectionate memories. The  Hon.  Vic Thorby, a former member for Calare, was a distinguished member of the Australian Country Party. He gave long service to both the Federal Parliament and the State Parliament of New South Wales. He was the  Deputy  Leader of the Federal Country Party for 3 years and he held a number of portfolios, as was mentioned by the Prime Minister. He was one of those rare people who held portfolios in both the Federal and State Parliaments. He took a leading part in the formation of agricultural policy in this country not only as a parliamentarian but also as a distinguished member of some of the principal farming organisations of New South Wales. We in the Country Party look upon him as being one of the pioneer members of the Party and his name will long be held in great esteem. To the relatives of these 4 gentlemen I express on behalf of the Country Party our sympathy at their loss. 
 Mr Speaker,  I join with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in the splendid remarks they have made about these 3 North American statesmen - Lyndon Baines Johnson, the Right Honourable Lester Bowles Pearson and Harry S. Truman. It is a pity in a way that it is necessary to bulk these 3 distinguished people together. I think each one of them is deserving of a special occasion. They were men of outstanding characteristics. They were outstanding world figures and all 3 have made notable contributions not only to their  inn  people but also to mankind generally. Their achievements will be immortalised and will remain, I believe, as an inspiration to other public figures who will follow them. They have had to shoulder enormous and onerous responsibilities and it is therefore fitting that a few moments in this House be taken in paying tribute to them and expressing sympathy to the peoples of Canada and the United States of America. 
The Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition have very competently mentioned some of the achievements of these men but I think the job of making a complete summary must be left to the historians. Of the 3, only Lyndon Baines Johnson was known to me personally as he was known to many other members of this House. He was extremely well known to most Australians. He will be remembered as the only  President  of the United States of America to visit Australia while in office. In fact, he visited Australia twice.  His  friendship to and his affection for this country were obvious. I believe that when the late Harold Holt made the comment 'AH the way with LBJ' he was expressing the affection and opinion of a great majority of the Australian people, not only in respect of the President's actions but also in admiration of the responsibilities that this man was carrying. This affection was put into evidence when he visited Australia on his first triumphant tour, a tour which could be matched in numbers and spontaneity only by the tours of  Her  Majesty the Queen. 
The second visit of the  President  was when he attended the memorial service on the sad occasion of the disappearance of Harold Holt. It was a most generous gesture by one of the busiest men in the world when he came to Australia to give a clear indication of his affection for our former Prime Minister and for our country. When I sat behind the late  President  during the memorial service I could not help feeling what a powerful but lonely role this man played in carrying the great responsibilities of the Western World and yet how fragile and temporary that power was in the light of death. I am sure that Harold Holt's disappearance made an enormous impact on the  President,  as it did on many Australians at the time. Many will remember Ladybird Johnson when she accompanied the  President  to Australia. On that occasion as Minister for the Interior I had the pleasure of looking after her one morning. I should like to have my sympathy extended to her and her family in their sad loss. 
I direct to the Prime Minister a question concerning ministerial staff other than his own staff. What arrangements have been made for the security clearing of members of ministerial staffs? Will he assure  the House that all staff who have access to Cabinet papers and official files will undergo the same security clearance procedures as apply to other members of the Public Service? 
 I congratulate the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  on being unanimously elected to this very important post. He has had experience already as a  Deputy Chairman  of Committees and in this capacity has performed to the satisfaction of honourable members and shown a good deal of competence. I hope that the same unbiassed approach that he showed on those occasions will continue now that he is  Chairman  of Committees. I have also been aware of his very keen interest in the Standing Orders Committee of this House. This has been a continuing interest. I wish him well in his new position. 
I second the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  that this House censures the Government for jeopardising Australia's security and injuring our reputation as a reliable ally. These are strong words. They express the severest censure against the Government. When the issue is national security it is a supreme issue. I was pleased to hear the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  say that this is an important matter. He said also that he was disappointed at the way in which the Leader of the Opposition had treated it. If he thinks this is an important matter, why is the Government restricting this debate to only 3 speakers in the Opposition? Why is it treating the debate so lightly? Is the Government frightened of pubic debate? Is it frightened that the Australian people will gain a clearer understanding of the antics and the statements of members of the Government over the last 2 months? 
We have listened to the  Deputy  Prime Minister. Nobody can get a clearer picture of the Labor Party's policies from that speech. One is not sure whether this radio monitoring station was meant to be secret or whether it is not secret. One minute we hear of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  having a confidential and classified briefing because it is secret. Now the  Deputy  Prime Minister says that of course everybody knew about it, that it was never secret. The Prime Minister even wrote a threatening letter to the Leader of the Opposition for exposing this matter and asking questions relating to security. But apparently it is not secret. The actions of the Government in the area of national security are engendering great concern and fear in the minds of many Australians. After a period of 3 months of office by this Government Australia is being seen by the world as having new foreign policies that are drawing us more and more into the communist orbit. These policies are fraying our long established and traditional relations with old friends. Regrettably, this impression is valid and one that brings distress to many Australians. 
While the Government can claim that some of its actions have been taken as a result of the mandate given to it - a mandate that was by no means overwhelming - the Australian people were not aware or expecting, let alone told, that the degree of national political realignment following the election of a Labor Government would be so radical and pursued with such indecent haste. Australians find it sickening to see the ingratiating way in which the Government is reacting and responding. In the 'West Australian' of 27th February a cartoon appeared which expressed far better than any words the feeling of many Australians in recent weeks. It depicted the Prime Minister taking some flowers from the grave of an Australian soldier and handing them to a representative of the North Vietnamese communist Government. That is what the Prime Minister has done. His headlong rush to humour the communist nations against which our soldiers have recently been engaged has caused deep distress among many Australians. 
It is the sight on television of Australian communists and unionists kissing and embracing communist North Vietnamese union leaders in Australia that the soldier who fought in Vietnam and the family of the soldier who suffered injury or loss of life see as a display of an appalling lack of sensitivity - in fact, almost treachery. The congratulations by the Young Labor Association in Western Australia to what it calls the sole and legitimate government of Vietnam - that is, the Hanoi Government - on its great and courageous victory against the American imperialists and the gifts of money that Australian communist union officials are handing to communists for their own use distress many Australians who understand the objectives of communism. The Prime Minister by his actions has been associated with these things. 
No-one can criticise the Prime Minister for his desire to achieve understanding between nations of whatever political colour. I do not complain of his wish to assist eventually in the reconstruction of countries damaged by years of war. But is it really in Australia's interests, for example, for the Prime Minister to dump the 18 million people of Taiwan in his headlong rush to recognise China? Why has there not been a single word of protest against China's nuclear testing programme from the Prime Minister and others who are so critical, and rightly critical, of the French tests? Why has not a single word of protest been uttered by the Government against the barbarous treatment of Francis James? What a hue and cry there would have been from the Government if the treatment that James received at the hands of the Chinese had been handed out by America or South Africa. He was illegally imprisoned, without trial. From his appearance and his physical state when he returned to Hong Kong he must have been shamefully treated. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I take up the interjection of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  He said that at least the Government got him out. I think that this House and the Australian people need an explanation as to what the Prime Minister did in trying to get this man out of China when he knew, as Leader of the Opposition, that  Mr James  was in China. Did the Prime Minister make contact with any country? Did he reveal this information to the Australian Government at the time to try to help an Australian citizen? The Prime Minister's whole approach to our relations with other countries has displayed an extreme lack of understanding of the feelings of the Australian people. They are offended by his haste to ally himself with the communist nations, as I am sure are our friends in South East Asia. They are worried about his inability to control his Ministers. They are worried about his Ministers' attacks on the United States of America. They are worried about his display of ineptitude in Indonesia when he was given a quick lesson in international statesmanship and its requirements. 
The Prime Minister will tell us of the good reception in Indonesia of his regional association scheme. But if we read the 'Australian* of 27th February - a journal which was not noticeably unsympathetic to the Prime Minister during the election campaign - we learn that the Prime Minister's self-assumed mantle of an Evatt-style world statesman has been hit for six by his Indonesian escapades. The whole incident in Indonesia was symptomatic of the damaging rush and hurry which mark the Prime Minister's approach to Australia's international relations. It is only natural that an anti-communist nation like Indonesia would have reservations about responding quickly to a proposal from the present Australian Prime Minister. 
Before a new anthem we need a new attitude of responsibility to the nation and its people. If we are to seek a new national identity, and we should, then we must also seek a new national consciousness of our duties and responsibilities to international friends, allies and neighbours, and this attitude and this consciousness will not come from the damaging attacks which the Prime Minister and his Ministers have been making since they came into office. On television last night we heard the United States Ambassador to Australia say quite openly and firmly that Australian relations with America had been put under a strain by the statements made by 3 Ministers of the new Australian Government. Anyone who understands the constraints which must apply to any representative of one nation in another must have been surprised by the outspokenness of the Ambassador in his reference to this disgraceful series of incidents involving 3 Ministers. That the American Ambassador should have been moved to make this comment demonstrates clearly the seriousness of the actions of the Ministers concerned. It demonstrates the degree to which the American Government took note of the statements and the damaging effects which these statements by 3 senior Ministers had on our relationships with the United States, a country which came to the rescue of this country in its gravest moment of crisis. It is a friend with which we want to maintain the closest of possible links. I believe those relations are important. 
The Prime Minister of course says that they are, but the problem is that it is not the Prime Minister or even his Ministers who determine Labor policy. Let us look at what some of the people in the Labor Party organisation have had to say lately.  Mr Whitlam  said: 
Our mandate and duty to maintain the American alliance was equally clear. This we will do. 
But  Dr Waterson  a prominent member of the Victorian State Council of the Australian Labor Party said: 
This year, the Federal Conference of the Labor Party will jettison the American alliance. 
Of course, we all heard the  Deputy  Prime Minister state in the clearest possible terms, as he usually does, at his Press conference on 20th February that if the Federal Conference makes a decision then the Prime Minister would accede to that decision. A couple of weeks ago  Mr Bill  Hartley and  Mr Bob  Hawke, who are well known to honourable members, both made it clear that the Prime Minister must do what the Australian Labor Party Federal Conference tells him to do.  Mr Hartley  went on television to say that the Labor Party was determined that Australia would disentangle itself from the American alliance. In fact recent statements have given new clarity to a statement made by  Mr Hartley  in Newcastle in April last year. He said then: 
It is valid for the Left to support the election of the Australian Labor Party to government, at the same time attempting to develop approaches and initiatives which would bind the Government to a left-wing course of action when it took office. 
If anybody wants evidence of the determination of the Left to direct and control the elected representatives of the people there is plenty of it today. In this House yesterday the  Deputy  Prime Minister told us of arrangements being made to bring troops home from Singapore. But how can we place any reliance on that statement? I do not for one moment suggest that the  Deputy  Prime Minister was deliberately misleading the House; but it cannot be denied that he omitted some very important words from his statement to the House. After telling us of the troop withdrawal timetable he should have added: 'Provided the Federal Conference does not decide something else' because then - as I said on 20th February - 'the Prime Minister will have to do whatever the Conference decides'. They are the words the  Deputy  Prime Minister should have used but did not. 
Let us get back to some of the Ministers in the new Government. The Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  did his bit to help achieve his Leader's alleged policy on the American alliance by saying on 21st December that  President  Nixon was using the ceasefire negotiations in Indo China for electoral purposes. What a gratuitous statement. It was an insulting remark about the head of the world's most important country by a senior Minister of this new Government. The Prime Minister, and I give him credit for it, saw it in the same light. He told the Minister in effect to keep quiet on foreign policy. 'I am the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs', said the Prime Minister, 'and I will do the talking'. The Minister for Overseas Trade did not take the slightest notice. He told the world he did not have the slightest intention of taking any notice of the Prime Minister. Is it any wonder the Cabinet has got itself into such a shambles? Is it because the Prime Minister really is what somebody called him the other day, HMV Whitlam -  His  Master's Voice Whitlam, the man who does what he is told and whose words and policies are those of other people, his political masters? He is the Prime Minister who jumps when the Labor Party's Federal Executive tells him to jump. The  Deputy  Prime Minister says he will.  Mr Hawke  says he will and  Mr Hartley  says he will If the Federal Executive decides that troops will come home from Singapore now, then the Prime Minister will do as he is told and bring them home now. That is what the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Defence said the other day. The Minister for Defence, of all people, was proclaiming the power of the backroom boys of the Labor Party over the Government's defence policy. 
The Prime Minister made an incredible blunder iri revealing to the Press in the most curious circumstances details of the Australian radio Installation in Singapore. It is almost impossible to work out why he did it, unless the Prime Minister tells us. Many people have put forward theories but the one- that seems most likely and the one that has met with the widest acceptance is that he wanted to put Singapore in a position where it would have to tell us to withdraw our troops. If that is why be did it, it shows nothing more clearly than the Prime Minister's captivity at the hands of the Labor machine. The Prime Minister is deserving of the strongest censure for his inexcusable action in divulging this matter knowing it to be subject to a need for security. The hamfisted way in which he went about making the disclosure has not fooled anybody. I just cannot believe that the Prime Minister would be so naive as to believe that a restricted briefing to selected members of the Press on such a matter would not have leaked out even if the poor old ABC was excluded. There could be no other explanation than that that is precisely what he wanted to happen and knew would happen. This is a shocking way for a Prime Minister to behave. Any man who is prepared to play with the nation's security to meet his own domestic party political problems must be strongly criticised. 
When we on this side of the House talk about democracy we mean the right of the Australian people to tell their elected representatives what they want. When the Prime Minister and the Government talk about democracy they mean the right of the Federal Executive of the Labor Party to tell the Government what to do. It is impossible for this House to have confidence in a Prime Minister whose ineptitude is surpassed only by his dangerous and inescapable captivity at the hands of his political masters. 
 First of all I want to congratulate the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  on bringing forward this statement and presenting the rules for the use of VIP aircraft to all members of Parliament and to the Australian public. Unfortunately, this is an emotive issue which can be used to try to discredit people who are using these aircraft. At the same time it is an area in which anomalies can be created and it could appear that distortions have taken place. Of course, if people want to abuse the privilege they will do so. We hope that this will not happen. 
The Minister said that there will be some amplification of the rules for the use of VIP aircraft by members of Ministers' families. Far too much emphasis has been placed on this in the past. I think it is quite wrong that Ministers arc not allowed to take with them a member or members of their families who are dependent upon them if there is room on the plane and if no additional expense is caused to the Government. I think that such a concept is far too narrow. It shows little understanding of family life and the difficulties that a Minister of State has. 
The other question I want to refer to - and I thank the honourable member- for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  for bringing it up - is whether in my position I will have use of VIP aircraft should 1 need them to get me to certain political functions or during campaigning. This privilege has always been available to the Leader of the Country Party during the course of campaigns.  His  right to aircraft on such occasions has been accepted by members of this House. I know of no time when the Opposition has complained of the Leader of the Country Party using a VIP aircraft during the course of a campaign, and I hope that that privilege will still be bestowed upon me as leader of a significant party. 
The statement lays down a privilege for the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  l eader of the Opposition and makes reference to people of similar status or importance who may be visiting Australia being entitled to this amenity. The words 'similar status' are also used in relation to serving officers. I believe that I have a similar status. I think the forms of this House are such that I should be entitled under that criterion. I have similar status regarding salary; I have similar status regarding staffing facilities.*!, hope that the Government might consider interpreting 'similar status' as entitling me to the use of VIP aircraft. I have written to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Unfortunately I did so a few days prior to his visit to Papua New Guinea and Indonesia. A message came back from his office that there was inadequate time for my letter to be looked at before the Prime Minister's departure. I am grateful for the remarks of the  Deputy  Prime Minister that this matter will be considered. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether he had discussions with the Secretary of the Department of Defence about whether  Mr Clem  Lloyd was to be included in or excluded from the Australian party which was to have discussions with Lord Carrington and his advisers. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. One of the most unsavoury aspects of the Minister for Defence and the 
Lloyd affair has been the involvement of the Secretary of the Department of Defence,  Sir Arthur  Tange. 
I would like to congratulate the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn)  on his contribution to this debate. I know that making a maiden speech is a very trying experience, but I think he impressed all of us with his sincerity and his concern for humanity. I would also like to take the opportunity of congratulating other honourable members who have made their maiden speeches. Last year in this House I accused the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  of a political crime in telling the world that he, a prospective Prime Minister, believed that the Australian dollar should be upvalued. Today I take a further charge against him for an economic crime against the exporting industries and against the Australian people by his clumsy, damaging handling of the Australia dollar. Today the nation is paying the cost of the Prime Minister's wilfulness. It is paying the penalty for his contempt for the productive industries and for private enterprise. It is suffering the consequences of the Prime Minister's failure to consult those Ministers whom one would expect to be able to exercise a wiser and restraining influence on him. 
On 22nd February the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said that Australia's growth rate was not sufficient to support the program on which the Labor Government was elected. In that one sentence the Minister exposed the sham of the Prime Minister's claim just before the election that the Labor Party's grandiose proposals would be financed from an increasing national rate of growth. But one could almost be forgiven for thinking that the Government that has pledged to transform the nation on a program financed by the products of this increased growth has made a declaration of war on the productive and export industries. After the 3 Labor Ministers engaged in an exercise of hurling insults at our friend, ally and customer - the United States . of America - one of the first things the Prime Minister did .was to make certain that his prophecy was fulfilled by revaluing the Australian dollar. He revalued it unilaterally at a time when no other country was moving its exchange rates but when he knew that other currencies were likely to move in the near future. He could not wait till then, but rushed in and gave the export industries a backhanded Christmas present of a 7.05 per cent revaluation. This is the only occasion on which Australia has adjusted its currency rates independently of international changes and pressures. 
Why did this happen? It happened because of the Prime Minister's stubborn refusal to admit to even the slightest possibility that he could have been wrong. Having made one mistake, he insisted on compounding it rather than admitting the error. Having told the world that he believed the Australian dollar should be revalued, he could not be diverted from the course he had set. The hot money poured in, and the speculators have now taken their pay-off. But the Prime Minister took the astonishing action, as I have already said, of a unilateral revaluation of the currency. He had to do it, not because it was the correct thing to do but because earlier he had committed himself to it and, having done that, nothing in the world would persuade him that he might be wrong. Having blundered into one decision, when he was faced with another decision he blundered again in failing to devalue the Australian dollar with the United States dollar. As a result, we have seen a revaluation of over 18 per cent against the United States dollar in 2 months - a degree of realignment which even the Prime Minister could not have had in mind when he first made his incredible statement of last August. 
This whole series of events must go down in our history as a series of blunders by a Prime Minister whose egotism has caused and will cause unprecedented damage to Australian industry. Not only did this decision damage the competitive position of our export industries but it also damaged the competitive position of our domestic industries. In many cases these industries are one and the same, so they suffered a 2-pronged attack by the Government. In the case of secondary industry and mining in particular, the people who stand to suffer are the very people - the employees - whom the Labor Party claims to represent. 
These decisions were damaging for a number of reasons. They caused direct dam age to Australian industry - primary, secondary and mining - in relation to both export and domestic markets. They caused serious damage to industrial confidence, the confidence that industry must have if it is to survive and grow. They were based on insufficient information and were made in ignorance of the views of departments other than the Treasury. They were made without the benefit of views which would have been put by Ministers who, unlike the Prime Minister, understand the damage and the repercussions of revaluation. They were symptomatic of the Prime Minister's dangerous impetuosity. He was peeved by the exposure of his original mistake and refused to admit it or to correct it. 
It would be extremely interesting to hear what the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  or the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry think of these decisions. Not even the Prime Minister knows what they think because they were not given the chance to tell him. To add to the injury caused by the revaluation, the Government has rejected the idea of compensating exporters for losses they will suffer as a direct result of the Government's ill-advised currency decision. What is even more deserving of criticism is the deceptive way in which the Government has approached the question of compensation. A series of statements has been made about adjustment assistance. This built up the hopes of industry that the Government might after all be prepared to offer at least some help in offsetting the losses it had caused to Australian industry. But, as I have pointed out on a number of occasions, the Government has not the slightest intention of offering any such help. With its talk of adjustment assistance, it has fooled a lot of people into believing that it will provide revaluation compensation. But there will be no compensation. Even with adjustment assistance, the Government has laid down such stringent criteria that it will be virtually impossible for any industry, except the fruit industry, to qualify and that is virtually a once only welfare payment. Even the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  of whom I expected more, continued the perpetration of this fiction in this House on Tuesday when he spoke at question time about an interdepartmental committee to look into the question of compensation. The recommendations of that committee and the Government's decision on the question had nothing whatever to do with compensation for losses resulting from revaluation. 
Australian exporters should by now know and understand that, in contrast to the $111m in devaluation compensation provided by the Liberal-Country Party Government, the Labor Government will provide nothing. Not one cent will be paid in revaluation compensation. With its offer of some ephemeral and unattainable thing such as adjustment assistance the Government is trying to pull the wool over the people's eyes. It is nothing more than a confidence trick. What is the end result of the new Government's currency decisions, added to the changes in exchange rates that have taken place in recent years? It is that the Australian dollar is one of the most over-valued currencies in the world; perhaps the most overvalued currency in the world. Exchange rates, in a free market, tend to reflect the differences in the internal purchasing powers of various currencies. The value of any currency can be seen in its internal purchasing power, purchasing power being dependent upon national productivity; in other words, how a country manages its manpower and resources. But when a country's currency is pegged like ours, we can have a situation in which there is more inflation in one country than in another but this does not show up in the exchange rate. That is what has happened to us. We have experienced higher inflation than has the United States, but our artificially high pegging of our currency prevents the exchange rate reflecting the real situation. 
Since November 1967 our dollar has appreciated by over 45 per cent against sterling, and by 26 per cent against the United States dollar in the last 14 months. There has even been an effective appreciation against the yen since December. Can anyone really claim mat Australia's real .gross national product has been growing faster than that of all other countries in recent years? The report of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development says that our growth has been sluggish at 3 per cent to 4 per cent. Much of our growth has been eroded by inflation. Inflation has been far worse in this country than in the United States. The United States dollar today retains 59 per cent of its 1949 purchasing power but the Australian dollar retains only 37 per cent of its 1949 purchasing power. 
The United States dollar is worth much more than is our dollar. Yet we have created the ludicrous situation in which we have artificially tried to make the Australian dollar worth more than the American dollar. Since 1971, we have appreciated 26 per cent against the American dollar, cutting the returns to our exporters by a net 21 per cent. We have done this while our costs have increased by about 10 per cent, far more than costs have increased in the United States. We have appreciated against sterling by 45 per cent while the pound is holding its purchasing power. What we have done by pegging the exchange rate at an artificially high level is to put a tax on our export industries and to give a subsidy to our importers and remitters of capital. 
Why has all this happened? It seems to me that we have become obsessed with our high overseas reserves and balance of payments situation, and we are allowing this to become the dominating factor in our whole approach to the management of the economy. There are ways of dealing with balance of payments problems, but this is not one which will apply equitably right across the community. Do not let us get so hung up about balance of payments that it causes an imbalance in our economic judgment. I am afraid that is what is happening. What will be the cost to primary industry of these deliberate Government decisions? It has been estimated that the cost to primary exporters of the Government's unilateral revaluation on 23rd December will be between $150m and S200m in one year. Since then, of course, there has been a further Government decision not to revalue with the United States dollar which has greatly accentuated the difficulties. Estimates made by various industries indicate possible losses for the second revaluation of SI 8.5m on wheat, with annual losses for other commodities likely to run into $45m on meat, $5m on cotton, $4m on fisheries and losses on sugar rising to somewhere between SI 7m and $23m in 1973 and up to $29m in 1974. Of course, the impact on some of these industries has been masked by the present world shortage of these goods and the very high prices prevailing. 
What has been the effect on our foreign reserves in the last 3 weeks? The foreign reserves of the Reserve Bank of Australia have fallen by $600m, not to mention the payments by the Bank for forward exchange cover commitments, amounting to at least $100m, and probably a good deal more. I am sure that no-one in his wildest dreams ever expected the Australian dollar to be revalued against the United States dollar by more than 18 per cent in 2 months or by 26 per cent in less than 14 months, or against sterling by 45 per cent since 1967. Not only are these revaluations making the task of exporting extremely hard by their direct effect on returns, but they are also making the competitive position of our exporters impossible. For example, over the period in which the Australian dollar has appreciated by 45 per cent against sterling, the South African rand has appreciated against sterling by only 25 per cent. How can our exporters, especially our fruit industry, compete against South African exporters under conditions like that? 
Look at minerals. The Labor Premier of Western Australia has appealed to the Prime Minister to devalue the Australian dollar. He says projects worth $700m in his State are in jeopardy as a result of this Government's hotheaded actions. Some $ 1,000m have been slashed from the value of iron ore export contracts by this Government.  Mr Lang  Hancock has said that this Government has cost Western Australia a $ 1,500m steel mill and a $200m alumina refinery. He has said that this Government, through revaluation, has made at least one giant iron mine uneconomic, as well as the famous crayfishing industry of Western Australia.  Mr Hancock,  using words very much in fashion in the Labor Party these days, has said that revaluation has 'aborted a golden future for Western Australia - a future which would have made the recent mineral boom pale into insignificance'. 
It is hard to escape the feeling that one of the major underlying motives of the Government in its currency decisions is to achieve by stealth a redirection of resources away from the primary and export sectors towards the consumer sector. It is certainly being successful in taking income and resources away from the export sector, but I am yet to be convinced that the promised benefits to the consumer will eventuate in the form of cheaper imported goods and a slowing down of the rate of inflation. If there were any chance of revaluation helping to reduce the rate of inflation, which I do not accept, then it is being cancelled out by the Government's unbridled spending and its unwillingness to resist cost- increasing wage pressures. But there seem to be very strong grounds for believing that the Government's objective is to benefit the great mass of its own supporters in the capital cities, and to make the primary, secondary and minerals exporters pay for it. If we look at the figures for exports by States, we will find that the Government is trying to divert resources away from the big export surplus States of Queensland and Western Australia - and to a lesser extent South Australia and Tasmania - to the import surplus States of New South Wales and Victoria. In other words, the Government is trying to give benefits to the cities of Sydney and Melbourne which put it into office, at the expense of the States which have much smaller populations. 
But then the war on industry is being waged on other fronts. We have seen another round of the old Australian pastime of putting the boot into the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd. It experienced a 14 per cent drop in profit in the last half year - over 22 per cent on iron, steel and minerals - yet it cannot increase its prices to an adequate level to cover rising wage and material costs. This was the worst profit setback in the company's history. Yet the Prime Minister accepts the finding of an incomplete inquiry and tells BHP to accept it. What is the result? BHP postpones $l,300m worth of expansion. What a way to inspire confidence in industry! So this is the way the Government is treating industry - hurting it with revaluation, preventing it from expanding and clamping down on its freedom to earn adequate profit, and leaving in the dark the possibility of export incentives and the reintroduction of the investment allowance. 
I rise to speak on the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Bill 1973 which is designed to amend the Act to increase the maximum contingent liability which the Corporation may assume under contracts of insurance and under guarantee. I applaud the action of the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in introducing this Bill. Basically the Bill increases the Corporation's contingent liability from S500m to S750m. The fact that this change is needed is itself evidence of the very rapid growth in exports in recent years under the stimulus provided by a government dedicated to the task of export encouragement. That dedication stands in stark contrast, I believe, to the attitude of the present Government which seems committed to the task of sabotaging the export industries. If it pursues this course, as it seems determined to do, then if will discover that it is seriously damaging - indeed it has already - the productive and export base of the Australian economy, not to mention the Australian people who depend on that base for their living. 
It is interesting to look at the fast growth of business by EPIC and to consider whether this growth should be even faster. At the end of the first year of its operations EPIC had issued policies worth S22m or 1.3 per cent of Australia's total exports for that year which amounted to Si, 636m. At the end of the last financial year EPIC had on issue policies worth $622m or 12.7 per cent of our total exports for that year, which were $4,902m. So EPIC is today insuring an increasing proportion of our exports. But when you know that the Export Credits Guarantee Department in Britain insures about 36 per cent of that country's exports, there would appear to be room for even further growth in the proportion of Australian exports which EPIC insures. Of course, there are differences in the composition of Australian and British exports. This must account for some of the difference - perhaps much of the difference - between the proportion of export insurance business carried on by the 2 organisations. Nevertheless, I think the Government should be making every effort to encourage exporters to make use of EPIC's facilities to cover a growing percentage of our exports. While I would like to think that this will happen, I am not encouraged to think that it will. 
The actions of the Government so far in damaging the export capacity of this nation deserve the strongest censure. 
This damage has been done to all export sectors - primary, manufacturing and mining - principally through the Government's impetuous and ill-advised decision to revalue the Australian dollar by 7.05 per cent last December, compounded and exacerbated by the Government's deliberate decision to do nothing when the American dollar was devalued by 10 per cent in February. It is very hard to believe that a Government that would strike such a deliberate blow at our export industries has the will to do all it should to encourage growth in exports. lt is fashionable in some quarters today, of course, to deride the suggestion that we need continuing and growing export activity in this country. The astonishing thing is that this is said when it is only in recent months that we have been able, for the first time in 10 years, to balance our international books of account. 
The damage I spoke of a moment ago to our export industries has been made all the more a matter for concern by the Government's outright rejection of appeals that it agree to compensate exporters who suffer losses as a result of the Government's decisions. I am sure that if the Minister had been given an opportunity to put his views to the Government on this whole question of revaluation, and of compensation for export losses, the outcome might well have been different. But he was not allowed to do that, and now we are stuck with a situation in which a wrong decision has been made, and the Government refuses to do anything about it or even to do anything to try to offset some of the results of that decision. 
This is a matter about which the Government will hear a great deal in the future, not only from me and my colleagues, but also from a vast area of business and industry in this country as repercussions of the Government's decisions flow through the country. I can mention one very well known Australian manufacturer of photographic and other equipment which exports 60 per cent of its production. Now, as a direct result of the decisions of this Government, that company is facing an impossible situation in that it will not be able to export, thus losing a major outlet, and loss of the export market will so affect its cost structure that it will not be able to compete on the domestic market either. As a result of the disastrous policies of this Government, that firm, which must be typical of many, expects that the employment of 700 people at its plant in Sydney will be in doubt within 12 months. 
If the Government is sincere in its commitment to export, as this Bill would suggest, I urge it to think again about the value of the Australian dollar and about the direct and serious financial losses it has imposed upon Australian industry. 
The Export Payments Insurance Corporation was established by the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1957 and since then a number of improvements have been made to the Corporation's facilities. An unconditional guarantee facility for certain transactions was introduced in 1964. Cover against political risks came in 1965 and the unconditional risk cover was extended in 1969. In 1970 the Corporation was empowered to insure exports to Australia's external territories and the maximum contingent liability was lifted in 1971. Also in 1971 the buyer credit facility was introduced - a most important improvement which placed the Corporation on a more equal footing with its overseas counterparts. 
Honourable members may remember that a minimum of $200,000 for at least 2 years was originally imposed when EPIC's unconditional guarantee policies were first introduced. This placed the scheme beyond the reach of all but a very few Australian exporters. It was suggested that a minimum of $40,000 would be nearer a reasonable mark. Events quickly proved this to be right. In the light of experience the minimum was later reduced to $50,000 and after further experience the minimum criteria for unconditional guarantees have now been brought down to $1,000 in excess of 180 days. The new buyers' credit scheme as proposed will be just as inadequate as a practical export aid as was the unconditional guarantee scheme in its initial stages. I strongly urge the Government to avoid a long process of evolution to bring the new facility to a generally usable state by aligning it more closely at this stage with EPIC's present unconditional guarantee scheme and with buyers' credit schemes already existing in competitor countries. We all are aware of the need to avoid any kind of international credit race, but there can be no reason why Australia should voluntarily remain so far behind its competitors in the struggle for international trade. So I say that there is need for improvement in the area of buyers' credit. The scheme was introduced. It is now working successfully. I think it needs to be amended and brought up to date, as the unconditional guarantee scheme has been brought up to date. 
These days interest rates are very much an integral part of the credit terms with which Australian capital equipment exporters must compete overseas. Many countries are offering long term loans at interest rates which simply cannot be met by exporters relying upon normal commercial rates. The trading banks and other institutions providing buyers' credit will be up against this problem. For that reason I firmly believe that it is essential that they be assisted by the Reserve Bank to lend at competitive interest rates when necessary to gain export business in Australia. 
I hope the new Government will take note of these remarks and will continue to look for ways of improving facilities which the Corporation offers to exporters. I commend the Minister for bringing this measure before the House. I appeal to him to do all he can to persuade his Government to adopt a less damaging attitude to Australian industries and exports. I heard on the news tonight that the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry will continue the export incentives for a further year. This is welcome news to secondary industry, which was left in an uncertain state as to whether this operation would continue. I am sorry that the Government can make a decision for only one year. The situation seems to be clouded in an atmosphere of doubt when the Government can make a decision pertaining to a further 12 months only. Normally decisions in relation to export incentives have been made on the basis of 3 years. Apparently industry will be left now in this state of uncertainty and doubt as to what will happen. On the other hand, I must commend the Government for its action in lifting the amount of this liability. I know that the action will be appreciated by industry. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I refer him to a report in today's 'Canberra Times' headed Terrorists to be named in House* and a report in today's Australian' headed 'Murphy to name 30 Terrorists'. I ask the Prime Minister whether these headlines, whether correct or not, represent a very serious and frightening departure from the concept of the need for guilt to be proved by the courts before a person is branded as a criminal? 
This is a very important matter of principle.  Mr Speaker,  I would be pleased if you called honourable members to order. 
I ask a question of the Prime Minister. Since his Attorney-General raided the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation quarters in Canberra and Melbourne on 16th March - 12 days ago - the only explanation by the Government has been that a statement would be made in Parliament when it resumed. In view of  Senator Murphy's  reluctance and failure to explain in his statement and to reply to repeated questions in another place as to why he raided ASIO, and in view of his statement made yesterday that he was not denied information by ASIO, will the Prime Minister now respond to repeated requests by the Opposition and the Press to explain to the Parliament and to the Australian people why  Senator Murphy's  action was necessary? I believe that as the Prime Minister is the Minister responsible under the Act for ASIO he should answer the question. 
I ask a question of the Prime Minister. Did the Prime Minister authorise  Senator Murphy's  raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation? Did he authorise  Senator Murphy  to take possession of any goods or property in the possession of ASIO, a Commonwealth authority? Is it a fact that while the Prime Minister has refused to say whether or not he authorised  Senator Murphy's  raid he has left, and is leaving, the Attorney-General open to a charge under section 30 of the Crimes Act relating to the taking possession of goods or property of Commonwealth authorities by an unauthorised person? Does the Prime Minister agree that while he continues to refuse to give an explanation for his part in this matter he is leaving the Attorney-General vulnerable to action before the High Court? 
 Mr Speaker,  I thank the House. In replying to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  I would like to comment on two of his remarks. It was a rather highly charged speech that he made, and I would not endeavour to divert and answer all his arguments. One argument he used referred to a decision by Judge Warren of a United States court in 1964. That decision has already been overruled by the Supreme Court of the United States in 1973, so it is not a good example to use. The second accusation I want to challenge is that the Country Party was responsible for the rejection of the redistribution in 1963. Certainly the Country Party opposed it, but why was it rejected? It was rejected because the Country Party was supported by the Australian Labor Party. That is a very shallow argument for him to use. 
This Bill proposes changes in our electoral laws which will have serious and drastic effects. The criteria which have existed since Federation and which have been accepted by all governments in the interests of truly representative government are to be changed. There is no justification for the changes proposed by the Australian Labor Party. The margin of allowance in enrolment between electorates is to be reduced from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. Certain factors relating to disability of rural representation and which the distribution commissioners are required to have in mind are to be struck out of the Electoral Act, and the. degree of imbalance in enrolments requiring redistribution is to be narrowed. 
The Labor Party's motives are based purely and simply on its desire to entrench itself in office. The Government is acting with an eye to the possibility of an early election. This is the reason for giving this Bill top priority in its legislative program. But before chancing its fortunes it wants to change the electoral boundaries in its own favour. As the law stands, there is no requirement for a general redistribution. The. Government is entitled, indeed obliged, to hold a redistribution in Western Australia; but the Government wants a general redistribution on a basis that would reduce the rural voice in this Parliament and maximise the power of the Labor vote in the cities. There is little that is noble in the Government's motives. Its self-righteous claims of concern for democratic principles are so much eyewash. Its motives are sheer political skullduggery aimed at depriving rural people of fair representation and at trying to divide the anti-Labor parties - in which it has failed. This Bill has very little to do with the democratic right of every Australian to be equally represented in this House. What we are seeing is an attack by the Labor Party on that right, a tampering with the electoral law aimed at consolidating and strengthening the Labor Party's hold on office. 
Before I come to the substance of the matter before us I must say that the second reading speech of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  was an affront to the House and a travesty of the standards and traditions that have been established for the content of second reading speeches. Second reading speeches are intended to help explain to the Parliament and the public the contents of a Bill. They are, by tradition, semi-official in character and free from party political propaganda. The Minister has so violated those standards that no one can now accept his speech as an unbiased, impassionate guide to the spirit and interpretation of the proposed amendments. The Minister's speech was an insult to the officials of the Commonwealth Electoral Office, and I hope that the Minister will take an appropriate opportunity to assure the House that the officers of the Electoral Office were not required by him to have any part in the preparation of the blatantly political material which accounted for a large part of his speech. 
We will be subject in this debate to a welter of words about the so-called democratic principle of one vote one value. It will be revered in hollow terms as being absolute. It is theory and far removed from what is practicable. If it is correct, why allow even 10 per cent tolerance? The fact is that there can never be mathematical equality of voting numbers. Nor can there be equality of representation with that principle. The best the Government can do is to lay down criteria that will help the Electoral Commission take into account factors which would cause inequalities of representation. There will be very little said by the Government about the right of every voter to enjoy real equality of representation in this Parliament. 
In his second reading speech the Minister spoke about the equality of representation but what he was really talking about was equality of voting power. The Minister said that the Labor Party did not 'accept the proposition that the relative value of a person's vote should depend upon his geographical location'. The Country Party says that the relative value of a person's representation is affected to a significant degree by his geographical location. The Minister said: 
There can be no doubt whatever that a man is entitled to equal representation whether he lives in the city or the country. 
The Country Party agrees with that. But what the Minister is asking the House to agree to will not achieve that objective. It will take us further away from that objective. The Minister said:   we intend to amend the law so that, as far as may be practical, the value of the vote of one citizen shall be equivalent to the vote of another. 
If the Government holds this principle so sacred why is it not moving to do something about Tasmania? Why does the Labor Party tolerate a gross violation of the principle of one vote one value in that State where the average enrolment is under 44,000 voters per electorate, between 10,000, 12,000 or 15,000 fewer than the average in other States. Labor tolerates this violation of this so-called principle because it knows that it would lose a seat in Tasmania if it did anything else. If the Labor Party is so attached to the principle, let it ask the people to change the Constitution to get rid of this aberration of one vote one value in Tasmania. Let us see Labor ask the people to change the Constitution to give Tasmania only the limited number of senators it would be entitled to under a one vote one value principle. Why should Tasmania with 220,000 voters have 10 senators while New South Wales with 2,581,000 voters also has 10 senators? Where is there evidence of Labor's inviolate principle in that? 
May I remind the House of the deliberate deception employed by the Minister in his second reading speech in his efforts to cloud and confuse this issue. He said that section 24 of the Constitution ensures that representation of the States in the House of Representatives shall be in proportion to their respective populations and therefore the vote of an elector in any one State shall be no more or no less valuable than the vote of electors in other 
States. The Constitution does not provide for equal value of votes. It prevents this from happening by saying that there must be at least 5 members elected in each State. The Labor Party and the Minister, with a complete lack of regard for the truth in this matter, are prepared to mislead the Parliament and the people to achieve their objective of entrenching themselves in office. The Minister in such an important matter as the second reading speech makes untrue statements and ignores the situation in Tasmania where a wide departure from the one vote one value principle is condoned and accepted and not even questioned by the Labor Party. 
The Minister's absurd claim that the Labor Party is the largest country party in the House is another example of his distortions. He justifies his claim by including in his list of Labor seats those taking in city areas and so inflating the total. The fact is, of course, that in Victoria, for example, the Labor Party holds not one country seat. The Labor Party has been utterly rejected by country voters in Victoria and therein lies the explanation of Labor's determination to force through these proposals. Labor knows it is unacceptable to the majority of country people; so it is going about the task of holding office by electoral manipulation aimed at tightening its grip on city seats. But is it the mathematical value of a person's vote that should be the be all and end all or is it the value of representation he is able to receive in this Parliament? Equality of representation should be seen to be far more important than mere mathematical equality of votes. The changes the Minister is asking us to approve will do nothing to bt ing about greater equality of representation. They will have precisely the opposite effect. 
One of the great objectives of the new Government we are told is the elimination from the Australian community of division and inequality. The proposals now before us will do nothing to achieve those objectives so far as political representation is concerned. We are being asked to approve changes in the Act which will further reduce the opportunity for country people to enjoy equality of representation in a real sense, and which will further increase the inequality of representation which already exists between city and country electorates. 
There are several points which should be established. 
The first is that, except in Western Australia, there is no need for a redistribution of boundaries under the electoral law as it stands. The redistribution in Western Australia should now be the subject of the Government's interest rather than the present Bill. But the objective of the Government is to change the law so that a general redistribution will be justified. The law is to be changed so that the Labor Party can perpetuate itself in office at the cost of the democratic right of every elector to enjoy equality of representation. The second point is that under the law as proposed, redistributions of boundaries will become much more frequent - frequent to the point of absurdity. There will be a redistribution within the life of every Parliament, a redistribution before each election. There will be confusion; there will be gross instability of electorates; there will be a serious lack of continuity of representation. 
In Britain, the Parliament regarded this type of instability as being so undesirable that it passed an Act after the 1954-55 redistribution to reduce the frequency of redistributions to between 10 and 15 years. The Australian Labor Government wants to change boundaries on which only 2 elections have been held. Five elections were held on the boundaries established in 1922, 5 on the 1934 boundaries, 3 on the 1948 boundaries and 5 on the 1955 boundaries. Under the present law we could have at least one and possibly 2 more elections, depending on when they are held without a redistribution. From now on the Labor Party wants only one election on a set of boundaries, and then a new set. The Minister said recently that this Bill would not lead to more frequent redistributions. He said redistributions are to be held only after a census. That is not so. A redistribution can be held at any time, and in fact is virtually required to be held, according to the present law, when certain situations arise. 
Be that as it may, if the Minister is saying that the Bill will not lead to more frequent redistributions, then he is arguing against his own philosophy. On the one hand he says electorates should be as nearly equal as possible, yet on the other he is proposing to let electorates get out of balance much further - under the amended Act - and much more quickly. He is saying there should be one vote one value, yet he is taking action that will speed up the creation of imbalance between electorates - a situation which then, he says, will not be rectified by more frequent redistributions. The grounds for redistribution will arise much more frequently, but redistributions apparently will not be held any more frequently. One cannot help having one's suspicions aroused as to the real reason for these proposed changes. Of course, the real reason is the Labor Party's determination to alter the law to its own advantage. 
My Party, in contrast to the Labor Party, does not accept that unbalanced political representation is good for a nation. We do not accept that it is wrong to take actions which can mitigate against the effects of unbalanced representation. We most emphatically do not accept that actions should be taken which, like the actions proposed by this Bill, will accelerate the imbalance of political representation. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  talks of decentralisation of industry while the Minister for Property and Services acts to centralise political power. Despite the fact that country people make a disproportionate contribution to the export effort, the Country Party does not cite this as a reason for country people being given special consideration in the area of equality of political representation. What we do say, and say strongly, is that it would be quite wrong if the political voice of these people were to be swamped by the political voice of the cities. We do say that the rural industries which are a major part of the nation's economy must have strong advocates in this Parliament because they are in the minority in terms of people involved in them. 
The principle of limited over-representation on a mathematical basis for minority groups is an accepted principle. The Labor Party accepts it without question as far as Tasmania is concerned. In the States, all governments - Labor and non-Labor - have accepted the principle of lower enrolments in nonmetropolitan electorates. In Britain, the minority areas of Scotland and Wales have considerably smaller electoral enrolments than England. The Rules of Redistribution of Seats in Britain require that, subject to several factors, the numbers of voters in electorates are to be as nearly equal as practicable. A departure from the rules is permissible if special geographical considerations make it desirable. Yet, working under these rules, the commissioners in their report presented to the 
British Parliament in June 1969 had this to say: 
The 196S electoral quota for England . . . was 38,759. We decided that the limits of 40,000 and 80,000 used by the Commission in 1954 could reasonably be applied in this review. 
The commissioners went on to say that, because the new quota was higher, it was their aim to concentrate electorate enrolments between 50,000 and 70,000 compared with a variation between 45,000 and 65,000 in 1954 in 80 per cent of electorates. So here we have a situation in which the law calls for the one vote one value principle to be followed, yet the commissioners regard a variation between 40,000 and 80,000 voters as being an acceptable practical application of that principle. In their reports in 1947 and 1954, the commissioners in Britain took the view that, in general terms, urban electorates could more conveniently support large numbers of voters than could rural electorates. They recommended an upper limit for urban constituencies about one and a half times the quota. This recommendation was modified by Parliament, but the commissioners held to their view. The actual weighting in favour of rural electorates was increased as a result of the 1954 report. Nearly all governments throughout the world make allowances for regions or areas and a degree of balance between population groupings. If the Labor Party accepts without question - as it does - the over-representation in this Parliament of Tasmania, why does it claim to find the principle so abhorrent in other places? 
The Country Party says that the political voice of the rural people and rural industries must be heard - no matter through which party that voice is heard. We say that people and industries whose contribution to the nation's wellbeing is vital should not be deprived by their geographic isolation of the right to adequate and equal representation in this Parliament. We say that it is wrong that political power should be concentrated in a few great cities, swamping rural expression. We say that it is right that the political voice of the country areas should be protected from measures aimed deliberately at hastening its diminution. In the normal course of events it has already been significantly reduced. We believe that good government for all the people comes from a reasonably balanced Parliament organised so that it can pay regard to the wellbeing of all the nation's interests. At Federation, approximately two-thirds of the representatives in this Parliament came from country electorates. Now two-thirds come from city electorates. 
For a nation which needs greater dispersal of population, inland development and less overcrowding of cities, it seems crazy to accentuate the drift of political power and dominance. Labor argues that it is wrong for a country vote to have more mathematical value than a city vote. But it is just as wrong for a city vote to have more practical value than a country vote. It does now, and Labor wants to carry this distinction even further. Ignoring the real disabilities of representing people and their organisations and their industries spread over vast areas, Labor wants to give city people higher standards of representation than country people. It is all very well for the Minister to talk about giving country members the use of charter aircraft and so on. All the aeroplanes in the world will not compensate a country member for the difficulties he faces in giving his constituents proper representation. These are difficulties which city Labor members have never experienced, which they do not understand and which they are prepared to ignore to give their Party a tighter grip on the electorate. The city member is able to devote far more time to his constituents and give them far more personal attention, and therefore a higher proportion of representation in a practical sense than can the country member. 
I believe that there is a strong case for giving more consideration to the representational difficulties of electorates such as Gwydir, Riverina, Eden-Monaro, Hume, Calare, Wimmera, Mallee and Maranoa than to huge electorates such as Kalgoorlie. This is not for one minute to ignore the difficulties of that gigantic electorate. It is obvious that some electorates, while of immense size, contain relatively few significant centres of population. It is, of course, difficult for the members in these immense electorates to give adequate attention to each centre of population because of the tremendous distances between them. But wc must accept that the disadvantages of distance are offset to some extent by the limited number of centres. On the other hand, there are many country electorates which, while not covering the huge areas of some others, nevertheless present special representational problems because of the large number of significant population centres spread over a considerable area. 
I believe that these electorates offer much more difficulty in the representational sense than either the small, compact, city electorates or the wide, scattered, remote electorates. For example, instead of the relatively small number of big schools which the city electorate might have, the country electorate has a very large number of small schools. This kind of thing is multiplied over and over all through the area that a country member represents and throughout community life and its activities. Does the Minister really suggest that it is possible for a member representing an electorate like Gwydir, with 32,000 square miles, to be able to give the same service as the member representing Grayndler, which occupies 3.95 square miles? Can the people of Gwydir possibly have anything remotely approaching equality of representation with the people of Grayndler under the conditions proposed by the Government? Does he realise that Gwydir is 8,000 times bigger in size than Grayndler and is equal to the size of Austria? Can the Minister or any honourable member say that such a difference does not create difficulties of a magnitude which additional facilities, however generous, cannot possibly eliminate? In the ringing climax to his politically loaded propaganda speech on this Bill the Minister said: 
Electoral laws should provide equality, not privilege. 
Members of the Country Party agree with that statement. We say that the electoral laws should provide, as far as is humanly possible, every Australian with equal opportunities for representation in this Parliament. We say that the law, even as it stands, does not do this. We say that the changes now proposed will further reduce the opportunities for country people to enjoy equality of representation while increasing the privilege of city people who already enjoy easy access to all that political representation means. We say that even without any alteration to our present law there is growing a heavy imbalance of political representation concentrating more and more power in city areas. 
This Bill will further aggravate the problem of a parliamentary voice for country people. Representation means far more than the right to mark a ballot paper. It means the right to be able adequately and fully to consult with one's fellows so that views can be discussed and views marshalled. It means the right to be able, without undue difficulty, to talk with one's member - the right to proper communication with those who sit in this Parliament. That right is, in large measure, denied to many Australians because of their isolation. It is a right which is easily and readily available to city electors. It is a right which for many country people is protected to a degree, but only a limited degree, by the existing law. 
The Country Party does not have, as the Minister suggests, a guilty conscience on electoral matters. To the contrary its members would be failing in their duty if they did not fight with all their power to protect the limited rights of country people and to give them, to the maximum possible degree, something at least approaching equality of representation to which they, as Australian citizens are entitled. Labor's electoral self-interest and electoral greed discredits this legislation. In the interests of continuing high standards of Australian tradition and behaviour this Bill must be denounced. 
The Prime Minister will recall telling me on Thursday last that I had failed in my duty to see what were the terms and conditions under which the DirectorGeneral of Australian Security Intelligence Organisation was appointed. So that the House may know those terms and conditions on which the Prime Minister and the AttorneyGeneral so heavily rely to establish the legality of the Attorney-General's action in raiding 
ASIO, will the Prime Minister table the terms and conditions as soon as he possibly can this afternoon? 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the AttorneyGeneral's statement in the Senate yesterday that he discussed with the Prime Minister and the Cabinet the whole matter of the course he took in the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation affair and why he took that course, and that he outlined to the Prime Minister and the Cabinet his reasons for taking that course, will the Prime Minister now assure the House that he did not deliberately mislead the Parliament and the Press yesterday? Will the Prime Minister reconsider his statement that he did not know why the AttorneyGeneral visited the Canberra office of ASIO? Does he not agree that on the face of it it seems that there is a conspiracy between the Prime Minister and the Attorney-General and the Cabinet to withhold the truth from Parliament? 
I direct to the Prime Minister a question which is supplementary to the question asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in relation to the raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation headquarters in Canberra. The Prime Minister will recall being asked a question on this matter last Tuesday by the honourable member for Indi. I ask: Does he recall that he did not answer that question? Does he recall that he did not answer -except to say that he did not know - a similar question put to him at a Press conference on Tuesday and a further question I put to him yesterday? In view of the fact that the AttorneyGeneral has said that the Prime Minister does know why he visited the ASIO office in Canberra, because he discussed his visit and the reasons for it with him, will the Prime Minister now pay the House and the Australian people the courtesy of answering the question? Will he demonstrate the truth of his assertion to the House yesterday, that we now have a Prime Minister who tells the truth, by telling the truth. 
I second the motion of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  dissenting from your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  that the words 'You ought to be ashamed of yourself are unparliamentary. I believe,  Sir, that  you are creating a parliamentary precedent in classifying this expression as unparliamentary. I cannot recall any such phrase being ruled out of order in this House previously. You have been in office now for 5 weeks. You have performed your duties well and with dignity. I think most honourable members have been impressed by the way you have carried out your duties. However on the first occasion when a major test is made in this Parliament of the credibility and veracity of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who seems to take it upon himself to sling any accusation whatsoever at the previous Government, and when he is challenged, you rule in favour of the Prime Minister. In other words, you are protecting the Prime Minister. 
When you were elected to office,  Mr Speaker,  I spoke briefly and said that I believed you were a man who could carry put the job, that you had displayed an understanding of Parliament during your manyyears here and that provided you dispensed justice without bias and impartially you would have the support of this side of the Parliament. I believe there is every reason for honourable members of this Parliament to doubt that your ruling today was not unbiased. Either it was biased or you displayed an incapacity to handle this House or a lack of knowledge of the rules of parliamentary procedure and of what is parliamentary and not parliamentary. We have had a series of strange circumstances since the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  took it upon himself to raid the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation headquarters in both Canberra and Melbourne. Every time members of this Parliament have tried to squeeze out some sort of information from the Government we have had evasiveness and a lack of reply to our questions. In other words, the Prime Minister through his actions has shown a complete and utter contempt for the Parliament. He has refused to answer many questions that I have asked him concerning the simple proposition: Why did the Attorney-General attack ASIO headquarters in Canberra? He dodges the question every time. This may appear to be irrelevant to the motion before the Chair but it is not because the more we ask questions related to this unusual set of circumstances, circumstances which are most strange, the more we find diversive tactics being used to try to take public attention away from this breach of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Act which has been committed by this Government. 
The tactics that have been used include claims that there has been a conspiracy, and there is over-dramatisation of the question of terrorism in this country. The Government has built up the issue around its suggestion today - and this is what we are getting to - that the previous Government had lied in a reply that it gave to the Yugoslav Government. This suggestion was made in a reply in this House today. The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  . asked a question in relation to this matter. The Prime Minister took it upon himself to make the accusation that the previous Government had lied. In one week we have heard the Prime Minister make some of the most outrageous, statements that have ever been made by Prime Ministers in the history of this country. One such statement was that there was a conspiracy in his own Public Service, an accusation that will live and be remembered for a long time in the Public Service., Today he makes, the charge that the previous Government had lied to another government. When my colleague., the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  stated by way of interjection that the Prime Minister ought to be ashamed of himself, you asked the honourable member for Gippsland to withdraw that remark on the ground that you claim it is unparliamentary. I want to know your justification of the claim that .it is unparliamentary because if that statement, which is not offensive in itself to a person, is claimed to be unparliamentary there is a bool? full, of statements that have been made in this Parliament which are also, unparliamentary. 

 Mr Speaker, I am sure that if you looked up the records you would, find a long list of accusations which you have made about previous governments or personalities in this Parliament and. if they were revealed to you 1 am sure that your conscience would be pricked, I have here a copy of Hansard of 20th April 1972 reporting you as saying in the House: 
If he is referring to me personally I would say that he is an unmitigated liar and I will not withdraw that expression unless he withdraws his implication. 
The then Speaker in making a ruling said: 
Order!  The honourable member for Sydney will restrain himself. The language he has used is not desirable and it should not be used in this House. 
But were you named,  Mr Speaker?  Were you thrown out? Did the then  Speaker  react in  a  trigger happy manner by saying: 'Withdraw or you will be named'? Heavens above, if this is to be the standard of performance expected in this House every honourable member in the House will be fearful of making an interjection. Is Parliament supposed to be a House where there is complete order and where the honourable member who has the call is not allowed to be interfered with or subjected to interjections during his speech? This goes back to Hitler's parliament, the best organised parliament in the world, where one person had the floor and nobody was allowed to interject. There is a series of incidents taking place in this country which must be worrying persons who are concerned about the rights and civil liberties of citizens. The Australian Labor Party champions itself as the only party concerned with civil liberties. However, the performance in this House today does not display any great civil liberties in respect of the rights of members of Parliament in a democratic institution where there should be freedom of expression. 
What is concerning us on this side of the House and the whole of the Australian community more and more as it understands the facts is the attitude of this new Government towards stifling the civil liberties of people. Why this unusual act of the Attorney-General going into and torpedoing ASIO? Why? Because the Government wants to form its own Commonwealth police service in this country which will take directions from a Minister. Will this be an infringement of civil liberties? The action of going to ASIO has spread terror and fear amongst the whole Yugoslav community in Australia and that fear is spreading further to all new Australians. There are threats of deportation. And today when the honourable member for Gippsland made what is a relatively innocent remark you,  Mr Speaker,  took the stern action which led to his expulsion from the House. Is it little wonder that a previous Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  felt so incensed about the matter Is it little wonder that the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  who had been a Minister for a long time in the previous Government felt so incensed? Every member of this House was shouting: You ought to be ashamed of yourself'. There should have been one motion that every member of the Opposition be expelled from the House. 
It was most noticeable while the Leader of the Opposition was putting his case to support his motion that there should be dissent from your ruling, that there was constant interruption from honourable members opposite who took a series of points of orders to try to prevent the Leader of the Opposition from putting his case. When we ask for a sensible reply, what happens? The Government will not give it. 

 - Mr Speaker, I believe that the peremptory way in which you responded snowed a lack of understanding of proper parliamentary procedure. Maybe you can be excused for it because this is the first  major test you  have had. But the damage has been done to three of my colleagues on this side of the House. They have been expelled from this chamber and that is a very serious reflection on them. But I believe that those members were acting in good conscience in refusing to withdraw a remark which I think was justified. I would say myself that the Prime Minister ought to be ashamed of himself for stating that the previous Government had lied. That is an  immense libel by  the Prime Minister of a previous Government, and it also involves a third government. This matter needs close examination and scrutiny. What we want to see in this House is a chance for people to be able to scrutinise these things and not be shoved aside by the Prime Minister by making some witty remark or avoiding the question. 
At present there seems to be an inconsistency between what the Attorney-General has said in the Senate- that he told the Prime Minister all the related facts about the ASIO raid - and the facts that the Prime Minister has told this House and the Press outside this House. We want to know where the truth lies. We believe that your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  is grossly unfair. We believe that, if this is to become the pattern of rulings from the Chair, it is disgraceful and deplorable. We on this side of the chamber will have to take the sternest action if this is to be the standard. We dissent from your ruling and we are more than quietly disturbed by it. 
 I second the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  which seeks the appointment of a judicial inquiry of 3 judges to inquire into matters relating to Croatian activities in Australia and also the raids on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. Firstly, I believe that the extraordinary motion brought forward by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in no way purifies or cleanses the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  in respect of his actions. In fact its unusualness condemns him rather than exonerates him. Secondly, I am staggered by the statement of the Prime Minister in which he said that his Government was going to assert its own authority, asserting the unchallenged right of the majority of the. members of the House of Representatives, to take whatever action it thought fit. In other words, the Executive is going to overrule the Parliament; the Executive is going to overrule existing laws on the statute book. Australians, take note of this. I warn you that I have never heard such a dictatorial statement in this Parliament by a Minister, let alone a Prime Minister. 
In the 4 weeks since the Attorney-General directed and took part in raids on offices of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation no real attempt has been made by the Government or the Prime Minister to explain why the raids took place. This Parliament and the people of Australia have been treated with contempt by the Government, and now only 3 speakers from each side are to be allowed to debate this question this afternoon. This House has been shamefully treated by the Prime Minister, who asserts his truthfulness and courtesy, yet does nothing to demonstrate the reality of those assertions. 
We find it impossible to get the Prime Minister to answer questions and we find it impossible to get him properly to retract vigourous, vicious and hysterical accusations made, against honourable members on this side of the Parliament. Nothing has been revealed which could in any way justify the disastrous actions of the Attorney-General in raiding ASIO. To the contrary, what we have been told is that the justification relied upon by the Attorney-General - the report of a meeting - is false. We have been told that the grounds on which the Prime Minister based his shocking suggestion of a conspiracy by public servants - the same report - are false grounds. The Prime Minister and the AttorneyGeneral have blundered into this mess like bulls in a china shop. They have thrashed around without the slightest vestige of selfcontrol or responsibility, causing damage at every turn. Public servants have had their reputations blackened. The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has been seriously damaged, its standing eroded and its effectiveness undermined. 
The Prime Minister has been asked over and over again why  Senator Murphy  visited the Canberra office of ASIO in the first place. Over and over again the Prime Minister has refused to answer this vital question, which holds the key to the whole sorry mess. It appears now that the only way to get at the truth of the whole affair is by means of a judicial inquiry. The Parliament itself, having failed because of the attitude of the Prime Minister to establish the truth, now must resort to an independent inquiry in an effort to uncover information which a Prime Minister with any respect for Parliament already would have given. The insidious and dangerous process of making unsubstantiated assertions without supporting evidence has discredited the Government's whole approach to this matter. 
The statement of the Attorney-General in the Senate was a mass of such assertions and allegations. This Government, by unsubstantiated assertion and by the whipping up of hysteria, has placed every Croatian migrant under a cloud of suspicion which will take a long time to remove. It is not a thing of which the Government can be proud. Is this part of the Government's plan to destroy the Security Organisation? What other motives possibly could have justified the almost unbelievable actions of the Prime Minister and the Attorney-General? A judicial inquiry offers the only hope of finding the answers to these questions. To my mind the most important thing, and a much more fundamental and important question than terrorists operating in Australia- 
This involves a paramount principle of which this Parliament must take full cognisance. A dangerous precedent stands to be established, and will be established if we do not prevent its acceptance, by the Attorney-General's attempt to assert what he claims is his ministerial authority over Parliament. In this action he is supported by the Prime Minister. On 11th May 1789  President  George Washington of the United States said: 
Many things, which appear of little consequence of themselves and in the beginning, may have great and durable consequences from their having been established at the commencement of a new general government. 
That is what we are faced with here today. The Attorney-General claims that he has ministerial authority to do what he did on the night and morning of 15th and 16th March when he went to the offices of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in Canberra and Melbourne, stood over ASIO staff and took possession of information which was the property of our Security Intelligence Organisation. It seems to me that unless he can cite directly the authority on which he relies to establish that he is an authorised person in terms of the Crimes Act in the situation he engineered when he raided ASIO, we are entitled to say that the Attorney-General has acted illegally and has placed himself above the laws of this Parliament. 
If the Attorney-General cannot or will not show that he acted legally, we are entitled to say that he placed himself above the laws of this Parliament as set down in the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Act. That Act states in section 5 that the functions of the organisation are as follows: 
to obtain, correlate and evaluate intelligence relevant to security and, at the discretion of the Director-General, to communicate any such intelligence to such persons, and in such manner, as the Director-General considers to be in the interests of security; 
to advise Ministers, where the Director-General is satisfied that it is necessary or desirable to do so, in respect of matters relevant to security, in so far as those matters relate to Departments of State administered by them or to authorities of the Commonwealth established by or under Acts administered by them. 

 Mr Speaker, this Parliament has passed a law which places ASIO under the control of the Director-General. The law passed by this Parliament did not place ASIO or its DirectorGeneral under the control of any Minister. The Prime Minister and the Attorney-General rely very heavily - in fact they appear to rely almost completely - on the terms and conditions of the Director-General's appointment by the Governor-General to establish the legality of the Attorney-General's incredible actions. They tell us that the terms and conditions make the Director-General subject to the directions of the Attorney-General. The terms and conditions do no such thing. 
If the Attorney-General believed the DirectorGeneral to be guilty of misconduct, certain courses would be open to him as set out in the terms and conditions of appointment. He would have to suspend the Director-General and set up an inquiry. There is nothing whatsoever in the terms and conditions which could justify even remotely the AttorneyGeneral's action in raiding ASIO in the way he did. There is nothing in the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Act to allow the Attorney-General to give directions to the Director-General, nor does it make the Director-General responsible to the AttorneyGeneral. In my view the Attorney-General has acted unlawfully and in defiance of a law passed by this Parliament in acting as he did. 
If the Prime Minister is suggesting that the Director-General is guilty of misconduct in the sense of paragraph 8 of section 7 of the terms and conditions, why has not the DirectorGeneral been suspended to comply with the only course open to the Attorney-General in these circumstances? Parliament, the supreme authority, placed the administration of ASIO outside the scope of ministerial responsibility. I have seen it suggested in the Press and elsewhere that it is simply inconceivable that a Commonwealth statutory authority is not responsible to a Minister. But it is conceivable in this case because Parliament made it so. It is not good enough merely to say that it is inconceivable that a statutory body such as ASIO is not responsible to a Minister or under the control of a Minister. 
Control means domination or command and the Parliament has specifically placed ASIO under the control - the domination or command - not of a Minister but of its DirectorGeneral. If the Executive, which I say has placed itself above the Parliament in this matter, says that a law is inadequate or inappropriate, it must propose to Parliament that the law be changed. Neither the Cabinet nor the Prime Minister has power to give any individual Minister authority to override the provisions of a Commonwealth Act. The AttorneyGeneral may be responsible for the administration of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Act, but he cannot take upon himself any power or authority to administer ASIO other than in strict conformity with the Act under which ASIO was established. 
The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation is not a part of the AttorneyGeneral's Department. The Attorney-General cannot administer it as he would have power or authority to administer his own Department. Parliament itself determined the functions of ASIO and neither the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General nor anyone else can act in any way which contravenes these functions. Parliament decided that the Director-General of ASIO should not be directly responsible to a Minister and thereby subject to political control or interference. If a situation arose in which the AttorneyGeneral believed that the Director-General was not properly fulfilling his duties and exercising his functions under the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Act according to the terms and conditions of appointment he would be dismissed. But the Attorney-General has no right whatsoever to go to ASIO and take information from it. Certainly he cannot resort to the melodramatic midnight raiding of ASIO and the direction of swarms of Commonwealth police to seal safes and containers. This is a most important matter involving the authority of this Parliament. I commend it to the careful- attention of honourable members. 
Throughout this matter this Parliament and the people of Australia have, been badly treated by the Prime Minister, by the AttorneyGeneral and by the Government. The Parliament aud the people are entitled to know the full facts of this whole astonishing affair which has caused widespread and wellfounded concern and disquiet in the Australian community. What is at stake is the effectiveness, perhaps even the survival, of our independent Security Organisation. I can call on no less an authority than the Government's main instrument of public relations in the election campaign, the 'Australian', which said this week: 
There must be a royal commission or at the very least an independent judicial inquiry, into the entire affair. 
That newspaper and the Australian people are sick to death of the contempt with which the Parliament and the nation have been treated by the Prime Minister and the Government. This Parliament and the people of Australia are entitled now to a full and proper explanation of the Government's actions and those of its Attorney-General. Anything less is unacceptable. 
 I want to make only one small point. I support the motion for dissent from the Speaker's ruling because I do not believe that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has the right to speak on a matter involving a redistribution of New South Wales electoral boundaries. He defended his position by saying that the Commonwealth Electoral Act takes into account the divisions and subdivisions of New South Wales boundaries. That is not so. When I was Minister for the Interior and had the responsibility for amending section 19. of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, honourable members on both sides of this Parliament asked that that section of the Act which took into account State boundaries be withdrawn. It was withdrawn with the support of the Australian Labor Party. When the Act came before this Parliament only last week and amendments were made to section 19 no effort was made by the Government to replace the old part of section 19. It is still not part of section 19. Therefore, I maintain that the Minister for Services and Property has no right to claim that he is in any way involved with the New South Wales redistribution. Even though there may be joint rolls, that in no way infringes upon the rights of a State government to make its own decisions regarding redistribution. 
I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I thank honourable members. I want to take only a few minutes in this debate. Firstly I should like to compliment the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  for a fairly comprehensive statement relating to the  New  Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement talks which took place between him and  Mr Freer  in New Zealand. I should like to thank the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  for his remarks about the part that I played in previous discussions with the New Zealand Government on the continuation of this agreement which was established initially by  Sir John  McEwen and  Mr Jack  Marshall. The statement really deals in generalities. It expresses a spirit of willingness to co-operate with New Zealand to bring about a free trade area. 
A number of assumptions are made in regard to matters which were discussed with the intention of further developing ideas. I regret that the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has not further amplified some of these matters. But he did mention that there will be further discussions in  6  months time and perhaps after those discussions we might receive more details. The Minister talked about the joint development of economies of both countries and the complementary use of resources in each country. This sort of thing has been happening to date to a limited degree. I would say that the most notable example would be the development of the Manapouri power resources for the conversion of alumina into aluminium. Australia is getting the advantage of New Zealand's cheap power and New Zealand is using Australian resources. 
The Minister made the point that the discussions centred mainly on the exchange of manufactured goods and the development of secondary industries in both countries. Questions relating to primary products remained very much as they have been in the past and this was only a secondary matter. I think the point that the Minister makes in relation to the development of secondary trade is that relating to Article  3:7  and the further modification to introduce a transitional phase between the application of Article  3:7  and listing on schedule A. I see this as being of considerable significance. It is a progressive move and I support the Minister in this proposal, although I do not quite see how it is to be implemented or how it will work. At the moment Article  3:7  really relates to an arrangement that is arrived at between an exporter in one country and the manufacturers or competitors in another country. Until arrangements are made whereby there is harmony between the interests of both countries, there is not an exchange of letters accepting the situation. This is a matter which requires private discussions between individual companies. I am not quite sure in my own mind how this can be furthered. No doubt, the Department of Overseas Trade has ideas on this matter, otherwise it would not have been proposed. If it can be developed, I welcome it. I think it is a good step forward. 
It is true that it is a big step from Article  3:7  to schedule A and I have found a good deal of inhibition on the part of New Zealand manufacturers in taking the step to compete completely with Australian industries. They wanted a degree of protection and the protection afforded has been not by tariff but by the use of import quotas. I can understand their reservation and fear. This is fairly natural in any country. But I would hope we can find a way of breaking down that fear so that we can move more and more towards the objective of free trade and a more integrated economic relationship between the 2 countries. 
The Minister for Overseas Trade, confirming really what was said by previous governments, on page 4 of his statement said: 
It was understood that the appropriate arrangements for meeting the needs of this sector- 
He was referring to the primary industry sector -  particularly with respect to meat and dairy products - would be a continuation of co-operation between both countries in third markets rather than the Introduction of disruptive competition in each other's domestic market. 
That certainly has been the policy in the past and I welcome this statement. It would be utterly foolish for 2 countries which have the objective of working closely together to try to wreck each other's pricing and production arrangements. Both Australia and New Zealand are large producers, by world standards, of meat and dairy products. To try to compete in each other's domestic market can do only harm. It can only be disruptive and react to the disadvantage of the producers in the 2 countries. Consumers temporarily might get some advantage, but if this means undermining the security of large primary industries in either country, it is not in the national interest. 
As both Australia and New Zealand are major producers of meat and dairy products, we have much to sell on other markets of the world. It is important that there is cooperation, particularly in regard to dairy products. The virtual exclusion now of Australia from the United Kingdom market means that we will have to look vigorously for markets in other parts of the world, such as Japan, South East Asia and the Middle East countries. New Zealand, while obtaining some advantage in the United Kingdom during the 5 years transitional period, will not be able to satisfy her total export requirements and therefore she too will have to look for other markets. If there is going to be a dog fight as to who can get access and advantage in these other markets, we will find that both countries will push the prices down to ruinously low levels. Of course, this does not apply to meat. I do not see any great fear in regard to the prospects for meat because there is a world wide shortage and all the prognostications are that this shortage will continue to grow. Both Australia and New Zealand will have great opportunities to satisfy the demand for meat. 
However, for dairy products the picture is much more difficult. The critical thing about keeping New Zealand dairy products out of Australia is that if they were to come in it would completely undermine the equalisation arrangements which operate in Australia for stabilisation and price arrangements. I believe that the prices for dairy products, particularly butter and cheese, in this country, are low in comparison to prices in other countries. Only those countries which are getting the benefit of export production surpluses from other countries receive the benefit of low prices. We could find a situation when New Zealand is excluded from the Common Market whereby both Australia and New Zealand have a surplus to dump on markets which are not large consumers of dairy products and, naturally, this will depress the prices. This is what both Australia and New Zealand must watch very closely. 
The Minister for Overseas Trade made brief reference to the question of forest products. He said that there had been talks and progress had been made, and that was the end of the sentence. I would have liked a little more explanation as to what this progress really meant. The area of greatest concern for New Zealand at the moment is the pricing arrangements for newsprint exported to Australia. I have been involved in discussions in this area for 2 years. We have an arrangement whereby New Zealand has the right to 89 per cent of the Australian market for imported paper. But the problem has been not to get access to the Australian market, which we allow duty free, but the pricing arrangements - what price Australian newsprint users will have to pay. I presume it is in this area that the Minister is saying that progress has been made. He shakes his head, indicating that this is not an area. I presume that no progress has been made in that area and the position remains as it was previously. Perhaps it is in relation to timber products whereby there can be an exchange of Australian hardwoods to New Zealand and greater access of softwood timbers into Australia. Perhaps it is in relation to some of the manufactured products, such as tissue paper. It may be in relation to hardboard, corrugated paper products in the use of cartons. I do not know, but no doubt when the Minister is in a position to tell us more about these matters he will do so. 
I certainly hope that in the process of developing arrangements between Australia and New Zealand full cognizance will be taken of the industries in each country. To try to override or to abruptly disrupt industries in either country will only set us back on the course that we have been following, and following successfully for many years. We have to be conscious of the fact that New Zealand has a problem in relation to the development of secondary industries, although I believe she has made outstanding progress. The fact that there has been rationalisation and complementary development of the motor industry with components and parts shows that these things can be accomplished provided there is a willingness on the part of international companies to do it. The Ford company, Chrysler Australia Ltd and General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd have played a significant role in this area. I hope that other companies will be able to find ways and means of allowing part of their production to take place in New Zealand and for the components to be assembled and so have the advantage of the economies of scale which a 16 million people market offers instead of a 3 million or a 13 million market in New Zealand and Australia respectively. This makes good sense and I am pleased to see that the Minister has been forthcoming in continuing the policies that have been established by previous governments and this certainly has the support of members on this side of the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Nicholls)  adjourned. 
Is the Minister for Northern Development aware of a statement by the Minister for Primary Industry at a meeting of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in Paris calling for international co-operation in reducing the level of assistance to Australian farmers? ls it true, as reported, that returns to Australian wheat growers in future will be determined by world prices? If so, what effect will this have on the price paid by Australian consumers of wheat? Does the Minister realise that the income of wheat growers during the present 5-year period has been reduced as against the previous 5-year period? Is the Minister aware of the fact that severe grain shortages are predicted throughout the world and that reductions in incentives to grow wheat can only make the situation worse, bringing further hunger and starvation throughout the world? 
 I should like to speak for a few moments on this subject and say how much I welcome the tabling of this report. For various reasons the report was not tabled during the lifetime of the previous Government. I had charge of this report and I believe that the tabling of it will be of great value to small businesses. I believe that it demonstrates recognition of an excellent job done by  Mr Wiltshire,  the  Chairman  of the Committee. In 1968 the then Minister for Trade and Industry,  Sir John  McEwen, announced the appointment of an expert group set up to assist the Department of Trade and Industry in exploring ways of providing guidance to small industry management in order to help improve efficiency. The previous Government's decision to act in this field was in recognition of the vital role of small business in the Australian economy particularly in respect of the preservation and stimulation of competition which is the mainspring of efficiency and also by providing a wide range of employment opportunities and scope for innovatory talents, personal initiative and judgment. It is clearly in the national interest that small business management should receive guidance as to the best way to deal with its problems. The members of the Committee, particularly the  Chairman,  deserve to be congratulated for the excellent job they have done in bringing down this report on the way in which small businessmen can be helped to improve their efficiency. 
The Minister has questioned the sincerity of the previous Government in setting up the Committee. 
I thank the Minister for saying that he has now changed that word. 1 am sorry that I did not hear him say it. I can assure the Minister that the previous Government was very genuine. I pose this question: I wonder just how sincere the present Government is in showing a willingness to help small businesses because many of the actions of this Government in recent weeks have hurt both large and small industries and will continue to hurt them. I think of revaluation and also the Government's obvious inability and what seems to be a lack of willingness to try to get at the basic cause of inflation - that is, excessive wage rates - in the community. One must really ask whether the Government is fair dinkum when it says that it wants to try to control inflation and thereby help the small business firms which feel the impact of these inflationary pressures very severely indeed. If the kind of treatment that this Government is handing out to the small business of farming is any indication then the rest of the business community has not really very much to look forward to. 
The previous Government set up this Committee under the chairmanship of  Mr Wiltshire  because it recognised the great importance of small business to the Australian community. As the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said in his statement, in 1967-68 factories employing 100 or fewer people accounted for over 96 per cent of all factories in Australia. So small business is really big business in this country and it demands close attention by this Government. The Committee found from its investigations that problems encountered by small business are pretty much the same as in every country. The importance of small business is obvious from the figures which the Minister quoted and which were taken from the Committee's report. Small business is a major component of the industrial and commercial life of every country and the problems and difficulties arising from smallness are universal. In many countries the government provides assistance for small business and the form in which it is offered varies from one country to another according to the social organisation and the temperament of the people concerned. In the report there is a recommendation on the forms of assistance which the Committee considers would be ideally suitable for the Australian environment. 
The importance of small business must be viewed in purely statistical terms. It provides opportunities for the expression of independence, initiative, enterprise, the play of competition, the encouragement of special talents and technical skills and a counterbalance to the concentration of economic power. Our industrial structure relies on the supporting facilities which small business provides. There are considerable areas in manufacturing and service industries where the owner-proprietor type of business provides a more economic form of organisation than does a large company structure. Some small businesses have within them the seeds of growth into new large industries. In some cases owners of small businesses think that the shortage of funds is one of their significant problems and that their size and legal status place them at a disadvantage vis-a-vis large enterprises with public company status. They therefore hold the view that government should assist by making a review of income tax retention allowances and granting more liberal investment allowance and other forms of financial incentives. I hope that when the Government is reviewing its policies in relation to export incentives and investment allowance it will remember that many small businesses owe much to the previous Government's initiative in bringing these things forward to enable them to grow into enterprises of some standing and significance. 
The small business sector of Australian industry is of national importance, as I mentioned. It has great potential for economic growth and for efficient development. I believe more attention could be given to means whereby this important part of the national economy might be assisted in its development. The provision of assistance which is acceptable to small business will require a thorough understanding of the real nature of small business, the people involved and their problems. I believe that the report that has been tabled today, if studied by students of business and by small business itself will enable them to have a much better understanding of what small business really means. I believe that educational and training institutions have not directly concerned themselves enough with these, matters and without the help and encouragement along the lines now proposed in this report much might bc forgotten or neglected if these institutions do not h.'Ip by providing the interest and attention that is needed. 
An important role for the Government to play is that of a catalyst stimulating and motiving the managers of small businesses and all bodies capable of serving them such as industry organisations, professional bodies and the educational institutions that I mentioned. The Government will need to coordinate the activities of such organisations and provide the essential support facilities. No private body is likely to take on this role,  noT  would a private body be likely to have the necessary status and authority to motivate such dispassionate bodies into implementing necessary courses of action without the encouragement and support of the Government. I believe that the Government can satisfactorily and effectively undertake the function of acting as the necessary catalyst to help the development of small business fcl this country. I believe that if the Government is genuine in its attempts the report will serve a very useful purpose. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I wish to speak to the statement that has been made in the House by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  I believe this to be a major policy statement. It is regrettable that we have not had more time to examine it so that there could have been a more informed debate by honourable members on this side of the House and a closer examination of the impact and the consequences of the statement. This debate could have been adjourned but I think from the experiences of the last few weeks there would be great doubt in the minds of members of the Opposition as to whether the debate would ever come on again so that we would have an opportunity to speak on this matter. So I speak today to this statement which I see as highly significant. I see it as a blueprint towards nationalisation of the Australian petroleum and gas industry. I believe that stemming from this statement today we will see the encroachment of bureaucracy into this area of commerce in Australia. There is no mandate for the Government to move in this direction. There was no statement in the policy speech of the Australian Labor Party that there would be created a national petroleum and minerals authority which would have control over the exploration, assessment of resources, development, transportation and the refining of minerals or petroleum in this country. 
We can see from this statement that the Labor Party is standing behind the resolutions of the 1971 ALP Federal Conference held in Launceston. Apparently every Australian now has to read the results of that Conference to determine what the Labor Party suggests it has a mandate to do. In other words, the people at that Conference - not the members of Parliament - determine the policies of the Australian Government. I see this emerging as the socialist instinct of the Labor Party. The Labor Party seems to regard big business as a bogy. If it is big, it is bad. If it is foreign business, it is twice as bad. The Labor Party is now launching its attack on the oil and gas industry in Australia. I see this as a very disastrous move for Australia. There will be. disaster because this move will create doubts and uncertainty in the minds of those people who are willing to invest their money in companies which carry out exploration to find the necessary energy resources that we will need to meet our demand during the balance of this decade. If the present rate of exploration is not maintained or indeed is not built up, we will have such a deficiency of petroleum in this country by 1978 that we will have to rely extremely heavily on imports of petroleum. 
The action of the Government in announcing today that it is to move into these areas must create doubts and fears in the minds of the people who are already active in them. There are methods of controlling companies which operate in the areas of gas and petroleum in this country. There are Commonwealth laws and there are State laws. These laws initially extend from the granting of exploration leases right through into every phase including the control of the retail price of petroleum. But apparently this is not good enough for the Government. It intends to move into these areas in much greater depth. The Government has to become more and more involved. The history of oil exploration in this country has not been a very exciting one. Until the early 1950s it was the popular belief that there was no petroleum to be found in Australia. Many holes had been drilled over a period of half a century and all had proved to be dry. Geologists believed that 
Australia was too ancient a country to produce oil, that the sedimentary basins were J ry. Not until the discovery of oil at Rough Range in 1954 was new life given to exploration programs in this country. 
Why did that discovery take place? It took place because the Bureau of Mineral Resources had carried out an assessment of likely resources of petroleum in this country and had interested the Ampol Petroleum Co. Ltd in undertaking a drilling program. Ampol discovered that it did not have the necessary financial resources or the knowhow to become involved in this work, so  Sir William  Walkley travelled around the world and interested the California-Texas Corporation in forming WAPET. As a result of this effort, bringing in overseas risk capital and knowhow, Rough Range was discovered. This discovery also resulted in a decision by the then Government to give incentives by way of subsidies for oil drilling and taxation concessions to encourage people to invest in exploration. We needed to find oil to try to replace our heavy import requirements. But another discovery of oil was not made in this country until 1963 when oil was found at Moonie. A period of 9 years had gone by and a lot of people had despaired. During that time almost 100 holes were drilled, every one of which was dry and investors thought that they were wasting their money. 
This discovery was closely followed up by a discovery on Barrow Island. But even the Barrow Island discovery required the drilling of 100 wells before that field could be declared economic. A sum of $100m  -  Si 00m of risk capital - went into proving that ground. This was the amount spent by an overseas company which had the knowhow that we did not have in this country. As a result of these 2 discoveries many many more companies were formed. We saw the establishment of Australian companies, joint Australian and overseas companies, and overseas companies. They came in and they spent money. It was not until the discovery of a substantial oil and gas field by Esso-BHP on the Gippsland shelf off the Gippsland coast that this exploration paid dividends. 
It is worth looking at the discovery which took place on the Gippsland shelf because after the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd had carried out its original survey it realised that it did not have the capital - Australia's biggest company did not have the sort of risk capital required - or the knowhow to be able to do the job. So representatives of the company went off round the world and talked to international oil companies to see which company would be interested in joining up with BHP. Eventually the Esso Company agreed to do this. It took almost 5 years after the discovery of this oil for the fields to be brought into production. During this time enormous amounts of money had to be spent. There were no other significant discoveries of oil or gas in this country after 1965 until 1971 when Woodside-Burmah discovered a large deposit of hydrocarbons basically in the form of gas on the north-west continental shelf. That company was offered a very substantial lease in that area when no one else was interested in taking up the options available. It drilled and found some smells of hydrocarbons. The company went on and spent $100m in drilling holes until it got a proven field. I heard the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  talk as though this were one of the biggest fields in the world. The estimated size of the field is 20 trillion cubic feet of gas which is not big by world standards. Some of the fields in Siberia have an estimated capacity in excess of 200 trillion cubic feet. So let us not be extreme. Although the north-west continental shelf field is a significant and important field for Australia it is just one of the fields around the world. 
The Government is now giving notice that it will move into these areas and that it will do the work and use public funds - the taxpayers money - to chase oil in this country. Let me assure the Government that even in those parts of the world where oil is known to be, where there are relatively proven areas, only one out of 12 holes proves to be successful. The Government will be getting into a very expensive business if it moves into the business of offshore drilling. Of the 5 rigs commissioned around Australia only 3 are operating at the moment. These three are being operated by Woodside-Burmah on the north west shelf. It costs $33,000 a day to operate each one of these rigs. The cost of operating the 3 rigs is $100,000 a day. Already this year the company has lost 30 days because of cyclones and strikes which means that a total of $3. 25m has been lost in unproductive time because of these factors. Yet this is the sort of business that the Government is talking about getting into. Apparently the Government gives this activity a greater priority than it gives to other areas of government responsibility that it should be attending to, such as social welfare and helping the needy in the community. 
We have the chance of attracting overseas interests to this country who are prepared to come in and spend their risk capital and to try to develop our resources. But the Government is not satisfied. It wants to use Australia's already important and strategic financial resources to spread its activities to all aspects of industry. Let us consider the cost of running the north-west shelf field where deposits of gas have been found. These deposits now need to be developed and it will cost from $300m to $400m over the next 5 years to make this field productive. To continue proving the fields over this period will require an expenditure by the company alone of $30m to $40m. Is this what the Government will do? 
I mentioned earlier that I believe that the Government's policy is a policy of disaster as far as meeting our energy requirements by the end of this decade is concerned. I say that, because if the Government frightens private industry and creates doubts as to the certainty of its investment in this country it will have to come in and replace that capital. The Government will require at least $100m for exploration each year on top of the funds needed for development purposes which, as I mentioned before, will run to $400m or $500m in the initial stages of the operation of the northwest shelf field alone. I believe that if this is to be the approach of the Government - this socialist Government - it is putting its priorities in the wrong place as far as the expenditure of public funds is concerned. So I have grave reservations about the statement made by the Minister today. I believe it to be a doctrinaire statement which illustrates the Government's obsession to get into the private sector of the economy. The way the Government is carrying out its objectives is hamfisted, because from what I can find out already there has been no consultation at all between the Government and the people who understand the problems of the industry. The Government is just barging in with stand and deliver tactics on the industry because it has an obsession about big business, and big business is overseas business. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Daly)  adjourned. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. In light of the fact that 3 Australians were executed by the Yugoslav Government without any information being given to the Australian Government beforehand and that the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia, knowing of these executions, said nothing of them while he was here, will the Prime Minister say what action he now proposes to take? Does he regard the actions of the Yugoslav Government and its Prime Minister as so serious as to warrant at least that he ask that the Yugoslav ambassador be recalled or even that diplomatic relations between Australia and Yugoslavia be suspended? 
I would like to join with the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition in the very fine remarks that both of them have made about the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden. They have catalogued the meritorious service that he gave to the nation. We do honour to one of our beloved colleagues, the Right Honourable  Sir Arthur  Fadden. Death is always a sad occasion. Members of the Australian Country Party look upon  Sir Arthur  Fadden with intense pride and as a person who brought joy to many people's hearts. I do not think that he would want us to have this as a very solemn occasion. He was not .that sort of person. It is now 15 years since  Sir Arthur  Fadden left this Parliament but for those who had an association with him it seems like only yesterday. He was a personality, a character, in his own right. He will be remembered by all of us. 
I was fortunate in having a lifetime of association with  Sir Arthur  Fadden. I suppose my strongest recollections are of the time when I was just a young schoolboy, probably 6, 7 or 8 years of age.  Sir Arthur  never failed to know me and my name whenever 1 was in bis presence. This was an indication that he was a thoughtful man, indeed a humble man. I always witnessed that this was his performance with all types of people during all his life; it was not unique with me. I think it was his humble upbringing in north Queensland which gave him this capacity to mix with people in all walks of life. He had the great capacity of making them feel at ease and of turning any occasion into one of happiness and merriment. 
I was pleased to hear the Leader of the Opposition mention the occasion when  Sir Arthur  retired from this House. I remember it very clearly. Usually when honourable members retire a lot of serious, sad speeches are delivered. But  Sir Arthur,  as honourable members will recall, turned the occasion of his retirement into one of telling anecdotes and of referring to occasions and personalities. This place was not some hallowed legislative chamber but it became more like a club where everybody was equal and friendly. Those present could have been a group of cane cutters or sportsmen and they could have been anywhere in Australia. When  Sir Arthur  had finished speaking other honourable members in the chamber took advantage of the occasion to pay a tribute to him, and also tell another story. It was a unique occasion and I doubt whether it will ever ba equalled in this Parliament 
Although he had a lighter side to his nature,  Sir Arthur  Fadden was an intensely responsible man and indeed a much more sensitive man than most of us ever realised. He took, to heart things that people or the Press said about him personally. In 1951, I think it was, he had to introduce a horror Budget which brought great wrath upon him. Indeed, the Press gave him an awful time for a long period. But the well known phrase that he used on that occasion and which I think is still remembered by people was that he could hold a meeting of all his friends in a telephone box. And I think that was true. We do tender our sympathy to his widow and his family. He was a very devoted man. He had great friends and great loyalties, and we will miss him. 
Can the Prime Minister say, or will he find out, when the Australian Government first learned that 3 Australian citizens whom the Yugoslav Government had earlier indicated were dead, along with others, were in fact still alive? I refer to the 3 men who have since been executed. I also ask the Prime Minister: Is the reported rumour true that one man is still being held in prison or will he find out whether it is true? 
The whole attitude of the Labor Party towards the execution of 3 Australian citizens in Yugoslavia is shameful. I believe that the case presented by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  today in trying to explain his own shallow attitude is too smart by half. He is trying to shelter behind the actions of the previous government taken in circumstances which were completely different. We were led to believe by information given by the Yugoslav Government that the whole of the force involved in the Bosnian incursion had been liquidated. Now we apparently find that 3 men survived, although there is some doubt that they were ever involved in the incursion. The 3 men were held for a number of months, tried and executed. Now what do we hear? We hear that the circumstances are just the same as applied in the time of the previous government. The Prime Minister shelters behind the tabling of letters written by the previous Minister for Foreign Affairs and the previous AttorneyGeneral. He says: This is the way that the previous government performed'. 
Some of those letters relate to cases with no bearing at all on the 3 men executed or on the Bosnian incursion. Why has there been no outcry by Labor members against the Government of Yugoslavia? Why has there been no complaint against the Yugoslav Government about the deception it has perpetrated against the Australian Government and the Australian people? Is it because the Government of Yugoslavia is Communist? Just imagine the uproar if this had happened in the United States of America. Why does the Labor Party accept, apparently without question, the account of the Yugoslav Government, a government now shown to have treated the Australian Government and the Australian people with contempt? What an insult to the Australian people to have the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia visit this country knowing that 3 Australians had been executed by his Government only 3 days before! He did not say a word about it. How do we know that these men were guilty of any offence against the Yugoslav Government? How can we believe the version of the affair given by the Yugoslav Government, especially now that its account of earlier events is shown to be wrong? 
The Yugoslav Government did not convey correct information. In fact, it lied to the Australian Government. It is all very well for the Prime Minister to accuse the previous government of having lied to the Yugoslav Government, basing his accusations on unsubstantiated facts. Here is a case in which we know the facts to be correct - that the Yugoslav Government lied to the Australian Government. Why have the Labor Party and the Australian Government been so silent on this issue? Is it because they have an uncomfortable feeling that perhaps the evidence on which the Yugoslavs relied for the convictions was that which appeared in the unsubstantiated statements of allegations made by members of the Labor Party? Was there any link with  Senator Murphy's  incredible raid on the headquarters of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation 2 days before the executions took place? We know that he raided ASIO headquarters for some reason. We have never been told. There has never been any explanation by the Prime Minister.  Senator Murphy  made his raids on 15th and 16th March and the men were executed on 17th March. How do we know that these men were guilty of the crimes with which they were charged? 
I have read reports that  Mr Vlashnovic  one of the men concerned, claimed that he entered Yugoslavia quite legally for the purpose of visiting his mother but was arrested on his arrival, imprisoned and later executed. 
We would like the Government to check it out. We do not like to see this casual attitude. The Prime Minister has said that the previous government should have looked. We were led to believe that all these people had been liquidated, but now it seems that there were arrests. It is a different ball game. Do not try to excuse your own conscience. You have reason to have a troubled conscience. These Australian citizens were stood before a communist firing squad - it amounts to that - and you are prepared to accept the matter as casually as you do. What effort has the Government made to establish the truth? All we have had is a formal, restrained, limited protest note from the Prime Minister, not a sign of the outrage that would follow if the Labor Party had these executions thrust upon it from a non-communist country. Apparently because it happened in a communist country and because of the influence of the left wing of the Labor Party, Labor has remained relatively silent about it. We are about as likely to hear criticism of the communist Government in Yugoslavia from the Australian Labor Party as we are to hear criticism of the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong from the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns). 
The Prime Minister's casual, off-handed treatment of this whole affair at question time yesterday and later during a Press conference deserves the strongest criticism. He made it clear that his concern is not for the fact that 3 men were executed on the say so of a communist government but merely that those men did not have access to Australia's representative in Yugoslavia. It is shocking to hear an Australian Prime Minister adopt such a trifling attitude to the putting to death of 3 Australian citizens. Above all he should be the protector and the guardian of Australian citizens. He should ensure that fair play and justice prevail. The Prime Minister's clumsy efforts to cover up for the Yugoslav Prime Minister are an insult to the Australian people, to the Australian Parliament and especially to the families of the men who were put to death. The Prime Minister has made it plain that there will be no further protest to the Yugoslav Government. Despite the fact that the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia must have been made aware of the executions either before his arrival in Australia or during his stay here he said nothing about them. For the Prime Minister to suggest otherwise is to test the credulity of the House beyond breaking point. 
Why is the Prime Minister not prepared to take the firm action that should be taken against a foreign government that has so shamefully treated the Australian Government and the Australian people? One can only assume that the Prime Minister is more concerned about avoiding offending the communist Government of Yugoslavia than he is about accepting the responsibilities of being the Prime Minister of this nation. The Prime Minister's attempt at subterfuge by talking about information his Government has obtained that the previous Government could not obtain must be exposed. He knows very well, as he acknowledged at question time today, that the previous Government had not been informed that people had survived - that they had not been liquidated. Only recently have we discovered that they were not all liquidated. There has developed a new responsibility on the part of the present Government to take strong action in this matter. I believe that the Prime Minister should stand up and be counted as a person who will defend the interests of Australian people and who should not allow them to be executed by a firing squad in a foreign country. Until the Prime Minister- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Does the honourable member for Kennedy wish to take a point of order? 
Until such time as the Prime Minister does that the people of Australia will continue to have growing contempt for him and for his Government. 
I am pleased to support this Bill. It is a relatively brief Bill to amend the New South Wales Grant (Flood Mitigation) Act 1971 to include 3 creeks in the Tweed area. They are in the Richmond electorate which I represent so it is very nice to have the occasion to speak on an amendment to an Act which relates to my electorate. Naturally, I feel that there is great virtue in the inclusions of these 3 creeks, namely, Cudgen Creek, Cudgera Creek and Mooball Creek, which are all adjacent to the Tweed River. The history of this legislation goes back to the early 1960s. I am pleased to say that I have been closely associated with the evolution of a form of financing which has involved local government, State government and the Commonwealth to see that this sort of development takes place. 
The rivers of northern New South Wales - the Manning, the Macleay, the Clarence, the Richmond and the Tweed Rivers - were all suffering from devastating floods during the 1950s. The damage from the 1954 and 1956 floods in the Tweed, Richmond and Clarance areas was enormous. The earlier floods in 1952, I think it was, in the Taree and Kempsey areas also caused enormous damage. Houses were washed away, shops were inundated and farms were put out of production for many months. In the early 1960s we had another series of floods. This built up into a very big issue along the north coast of New South Wales, and people there demanded that some mitigation action be taken. It was not possible to devise a scheme to prevent flooding. The amount of runoff was enormous. The volume of water that came down the rivers was beyond control. An alternative approach was considered. That was to try to lessen the impact of the flood. The greatest damage from floods is due to water remaining in areas for a long period rendering the ground useless for grazing or cropping, causing tremendous stagnation and a most unpleasant smell over the whole district. 
The answer was to provide better drainage or to build levee banks and flood gates to control flooding when there were only minor or medium level floods. Schemes were evolved by the local authorities with the help of the New South Wales Department of Works for this to be undertaken. The expenditure involved was beyond the capacity of local government authorities and the State Government to meet and did not allow them to become deeply involved in the scheme. However at the end of 1963, prior to the elections, the Government announced a commitment to become involved in an arrangement wherby local government authorities would be responsible for 20 per cent of the charge and the balance would be shared in the proportion of 40 per cent each by both the State and the Commonwealth. 
I feel that the evolvement of this scheme is largely due to the efforts of 4 members of Parliament during the period prior to its introduction. They included the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock),  the honourable member for Macarthur at the time and also a member who came into this House after 1963, the present honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson),  who at the time was the member for Casino in the State House. These men played a leading part in liaising between the State and the Commonwealth. It took a good deal of negotiation and discussion to get all the parties eventually to agree. I do not think anybody will ever really appreciate what a difficult task it was. All the local communities were saying: The Commonwealth should provide the money'. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. It follows that asked by the honourable member for Gwydir of the Acting Minister for Overseas Trade and relates to the placing of a ban by the Seamen's Union on French ships. The Minister completely dodged answering this question. So I ask the Prime Minister: In view of the very serious implications that this ban has on the export of Australian goods, particularly  on skins from Australia to France, will he say whether his Government supports the action of the Seamen's Union and will he say what action he will take against this sort of industrial, political action which is having such serious effects on some of Australia's industries? 
I again address a question to the Prime Minister. In view of his rather slick answer in which he said that his Government would take the same action as his predecessors took relating to the ban placed on French ships by the Seamen's Union of Australia, I inform the Prime Minister that the previous Government supported protests and condemned the action of the Seamen's Union to such a point that the union withdrew the ban. I now ask the Prime Minister: Do I take it that his Government also condemns the action of the Seamen's Union and that it will take action similar to that of the previous Government? 
I second the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  that honourable members be given reasonable time to present their points of view on the Medical Practice Clarification Bill which has become such an emotional issue and an issue of such great conscience throughout the Australian community at present. lt is not an issue on which all opinions are on one side. It is not an issue in respect of which anybody would agree that all the rights or wrongs are on one side or the other. However I believe that a lot of honourable members in this House feel that they need to explain how they will be voting. Within their electorates and their own organisations there are diverse points of view, and to vote one way without some clarification of why they voted in that way will put them in a rather embarrassing and invidious position. So I humbly ask the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  to reconsider what he has said previously and enable this House today to debate fully this very important national issue. Because the Opposition is asking for more time, because this will interrupt the program to which he has tried to adhere rigidly, and speaking on behalf of all members of my Party I say that we are prepared to sit tomorrow to deal with normal Government business. 
Yesterday in his rantings and ravings - I do not want to refer unduly to this because I will get emotionally upset myself - the Leader of the House said that if the Opposition wanted to debate this matter it would do so by sitting on Friday or Saturday. I conferred with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  immediately after the Leader of the House made that speech, and said that my Party would be prepared to sit on Friday. I also asked the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition whether he would consult with his Party to see whether it was prepared to do likewise and then to notify the Leader of the 
House. This he has done. This is a reasonable request and I ask the Leader of the House to reconsider it. I see no reason why caucus should have the right to determine the time allotted to debate an issue of conscience of the magnitude of this issue. Let us have a free vote on the question of how long this House really wants to debate this matter. Let Government supporters be free to decide whether the whole of today can be put aside for this debate. I am not saying this with the intention that we should just talk it out and have no vote. I am in favour of having a vote. I would say that there should be some time limit. Make it 10 o'clock tonight or 6 o'clock tonight. But at present there is no possible chance of a debate adequate to enable the views of private members of this House to be presented. 
In my own Party we have a list on which honourable members are asked to put their names if they are interested in speaking. When we had our Party meeting yesterday there were 13 names on the list of those wishing to speak to the Bill. Apart from myself the names were: The honourable member for Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock),  the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson),  the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  and the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  All those people have their own points of view as to why they want to speak. It may not be possible to give them all a chance, but as the procedures stand at the moment our Party will be lucky to have more than two or possibly three speakers. I consider that to be quite inadequate. I would imagine that private members on the Government side must feel equally deficient in regard to having an opportunity to express their points of view and explaining their reasons for voting as they do. So I request back bench supporters of the Government to consider the whole aspects of this debate and not just be led along by the hysterical remarks of the Leader of the House. 
 No one would deny that the matter we are debating today is a complex one, a serious one and one which gives rise to the expression of very strong and widely divergent views. Every member of this House is aware of the depth of feeling this Bill has aroused. The Bill deals with a matter which goes to the basic philosophical and religious beliefs of the community. In my opinion, but perhaps not in the opinion of others, it raises matters of law, of health, of responsibility, of social justice, of ethics, of morals and of personal and community standards and values. Extreme points of view are taken. On the one hand, for example, we have the view that abortion is wrong in every case and the other view that abortion should be available whenever requested. I think we would be wrong to place ourselves at the end of either of these extremities. 
Whether we start from the point of a strongly held personal view, as I do, and as many others of us do, or whether we have not such a firm point of view*, we all have a responsibility to look at the whole range of arguments with great care and in the knowledge that we are dealing with a matter that goes to the foundations of the attitudes to life and freedom held by the people of this nation. No doubt much of what I say and what other honourable members say will be unacceptable to people whose views are based on quite different premises. I think all of us, if we are honest, must admit that we can readily imagine situations in which we would find it difficult to resist the idea that an abortion should take place. Faced personally or through family associations with a situation in which a decision must be made, I think most of Ug could find ways of justifying in our own minds that an abortion should be performed. But what we have to keep in mind here is that we are looking at this Bill not from a purely personal viewpoint but as legislators charged with enacting laws for the good of our society. We must have in mind the needs and the good of the community at large and we must look at this Bill not only as individual members of the community but as people whose job it is to enact the community's laws. 
As to whether the law should have a say in the matter at ail, I will say something later. 
It is impossible in the few minutes available to me to consider all the arguments in detail, and in any case I want to raise some considerations which I think should be discussed even though they do not involve the more direct legal and medical questions related to abortion. Before I speak about what I believe to be the principles involved in the matter we are discussing I want to say something about the Bill itself. The title of the Bill is misleading. I do not think anyone really believes the objective is to clarify the law. It is to secure the introduction of abortion on request. 1 am advised that under the law as it exists in the Australian Capital Territory almost any request for an abortion based on medical, psychiatric or socio-economic grounds is given proper and serious consideration by the appropriate authorities and most are agreed to. I am disturbed that the Bill is such a slipshod one. To state that it has been hastily prepared with little research is understating the situation. 
We have had, in fact, a series of drafts of the Bill as it has been amended to take account of objections raised to its provisions. Despite improvements, there are still disturbing provisions in it. To take one example, the Bill defines a medical practioner as a person registered under the laws of the Commonwealth, of a State or of a Territory and permitted thereby to practice medicine for reward in a State or Territory. I can see nothing in the Bill to prevent any such person from anywhere in Australia coming to Canberra and bringing his patients with him and performing abortions here. I can see nothing in the Bill to require that such an abortion or in fact any abortion is carried out in a hospital or operating theatre. There is nothing in the Bill to say that a doctor, faced with a request from a girl of say 12, 13 or 14, need consult the child's parents. I can see no provision for the father of the unborn child to exercise his responsibilities or his rights. In fact, the father is denied any legal right in determining the fate of the unborn child. 
I think the main point put forward to support the concept of abortion on demand or on request is that the matter is entirely private between a woman and her doctor. On the face of it, this seems a reasonable thing to say, and it would be reasonable if the matter did concern only the woman and her doctor; but it does not. There is at least one other life involved - that of the unborn child. I know there is a lot of argument about the point at which an unborn child becomes a person in the legal sense, but my own view is that when we are considering abortion we cannot leave out of that consideration the unborn child, no matter what stage of development it has reached. 
I mentioned a moment ago the question as to whether there should be any laws relating to abortion. This point of view is put forward again on the ground that the matter is a private one between the woman and her doctor. But if it is accepted, as I accept, that a third person is involved, there must be laws to protect the rights of that person - a person incapable of defending his or her own rights. If it is accepted, as I accept, that society is involved then laws must be framed by society for its own good. I see the fundamental right as that which has been described as the right to life of the unborn child. Others will argue that if there is a fundamental right is belongs to the woman. Much of this argument rests on whether a foetus becomes a human person at the moment of birth, at the moment of conception or at some point in between. These are matters on which it is very difficult for the layman to express a viewpoint, but my own view tends towards the belief that definable life begins - certainly the potential for life is established - at a very early stage in pregnancy, though I think it might be taking too extreme a viewpoint to say that it begins at the moment of conception. However, there is a very strong body of expert medical opinion which adheres to the view that human life begins with the implantation of the fertilised ovum. 
If we look for some legal guidance on the status of the unborn child, we find that in the Supreme Court of Victoria in 1971, in the case of Watt v. Rama, it was held that where a child had suffered injuries in an accident or had suffered grave disabilities as the result of her mother's injury, the defendant had owed a duty of care not to cause injury to the child. The child in this case was bom on 4th January 1968 and the motor accident in which the injuries were suffered occurred on 15th May 1967  -  almost 8 months before the child was born. It seems that the court had no doubt that this child - although only a matter of a few weeks past conception at the time of the accident - certainly had the legal rights of other members of the community. 
The question arises as to whether abortion is always wrong, or is acceptable in some circumstances. I think all of us would agree that there are circumstances in which the judgment has to be made as to whether first consideration must be given to the life, or health of the mother or that of the unborn child. The purely medical decisions can be made only by an expert in the form of a doctor. But there are other circumstances when some people incline to the view that abortion is justifiable, such as when pregnancy results from rape. The view of the Australian Council of the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists can be summarised as  follows: 
Rape and incest, socio-economic factors, illegitimacy or the simple fact that pregnancy is unwanted, are not, on their own, indications for the termination of pregnancy. 
However the flexibility of the present legal system in Canberra would permit a gynaecologist, after consideration of these and other factors, and after proper consultation,  to  terminate pregnancy when he considered it to be in the best interests of a woman and her potential child. I think the point at issue here for many people is whether the circumstances of conception can affect the  Tightness  or wrongness of abortion. Another of the arguments revolves around what has become known as the quality of life. It seems to me  that  there is a real question to be dealt with here - whether the right to life of the unborn child can be subordinated to the quality of life of the existing family or the community. Is this an attitude of selfishness or an attitude of realism? Is it right to see abortion as the answer to quality of life problems instead of the greater acceptance of responsibility for providing for the needs of a family and the community? Again, we are told that there are many children born who are unwanted and because they are unwanted they suffer. It seems to me that if a child is not going to be wanted, there is a very heavy responsibility resting on those who have the power to set the life process in train to take steps to prevent conception. 
In the first 2 years of the South Australian experiment, of those women having pregnancy terminations only one in eight had employed contraception. I know that to talk of responsibility will be seen by many people as an easy answer - an answer which does not take into account the many difficult and different practical matters involved. Nevertheless, I do not think we should look upon abortion as a substitute for lack of responsibility at an earlier stage, or as a substitute for knowledge of and education in contraception and, also, an understanding of the principles on which our society is founded. I believe we are on a dangerous course if we see abortion simply as an alternative to contraception. We must ask ourselves whether the attitude represented by this Bill could lead to a lessening respect for life not only of the unborn child but also of people who have far less potential for usefulness in society. This is one of the great questions we must think about very carefully. I believe that in a democratic society the emphasis must be placed on the rights - including the right to life and the right to fulfilment - of the individual. This is in contrast to a totalitarian society in which the right of the individual is subordinated to the rights of the state. 
I am concerned that we should not allow ourselves to move, perhaps unwittingly and certainly not consciously, into a kind of society which accepts the subordination of the rights of the individual, including his most fundamental rights. I believe the demand for abortion on request is part of the manifestation of the change of values occurring in our society. J cannot help seeing this trend as one which raises a serious threat to the continued existence of the basis of our society - the family. I know this view will be challenged but it is a view that I hold strongly. The trend of which I speak is evident in such matters as call for the legalisation of homosexual acts, for the making easier of divorce, for legalisation of the use of soft drugs and, in some cases, for the legalisation of euthanasia and infanticide and relaxation on controls of pornographic matter. To me, these trends must result in a weakening of those institutions - marriage and the family - which provide the best environment for the upbringing of our children. 
In an age when the setting in train of the life process can be managed and controlled, and even prevented, it seems to me an abrogation of our responsibility to ourselves and a betrayal of humanity to claim that abortion, except where justified on grounds already provided for in the law, is an acceptable and appropriate alternative to the exercise of the control which an acceptance of responsibility would suggest should be exercised. It seems to me. to be not an expression of the liberation of a woman but an affront to her womanhood and a denial of her rights if it is suggested that all responsibility for avoiding or terminating an unwanted pregnancy should rest with that woman alone. If a man now is permitted by society to avoid responsibility in these matters, to what greater extent will he be encouraged to avoid responsibility in these matters if women are called upon to accept an even larger part of what should be. a dual responsibility on those who have the power to start the life process? 
If we declare that abortion must not be seen simply as an alternative to responsibility or to education in contraception, should we not be making sure that such education is freely available? Should we not be doing all we can to ensure that adequate sex education is given to our young people? Should we not be seeing to it that mothers of young children are given the help they need in caring for them? Should we not examine our attitudes, both as individuals and as a community, to the unmarried mother, to the illegitimate child and to the deserted wife? Should we not be moving more quickly to the establishment of family planning clinics? Whether this Bill is passed or not, might it not be worth while to consider the establishment, perhaps in the Australian Capital Territory for a start, of special clinics to deal not only with family planning, .education and similar matters but also with abortion legally performed under the existing law? 
I think it might be well worth while asking a committee consisting of, say, representatives of the Department of Health, the Department of Social Security, the various hospitals, the Australian Medical Association, the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists and other appropriate people to look into this matter. We cannot avoid the problem of backyard abortion, but legislation has not cured this problem. I believe that we should take a more positive step to make people aware of the provisions of the existing law before we think of making dangerous changes to that law. As to the suggestion for an inquiry, I do not believe that putting the responsibility on a judge will change the basic underlining principles. I am afraid that I will have to oppose the amendments foreshadowed and oppose this Bill. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Following the very strong expression of the House last Thursday on the question of changes in the abortion laws in the Australian Capital Territory, I ask the Prime Minister a question in 2 parts. Firstly, will he assure the House that he will resist attempts to circumvent the decision of Parliament by resort to the use of the draft criminal code for the ACT or by the use of regulations? Secondly, will he accept my assurance - I am sure that I speak for all honourable members who, out of a strong conviction on the basic principles involved, voted against the Bill and the amendment - that the House will co-operate to the fullest possible extent in helping the Government expedite the development of measures such as family planning clinics, child care centres and education programs which will make an important and constructive contribution to the solving of the serious personal problems which abortion raises for many people? 
 I move: 
Omit sub-clause (1), substitute the following subclause: 
This Act may be cited as the Cities and Regional Development Commission Act 1973.'. 
In the circulated list of amendments in the name of the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  there follow a number of consequential amendments which will be moved if the first amendment is agreed to. The honourable member for Gwydir outlined in his speech on the motion for the second reading of this Bill his reasons for his intention to move this amendment. I fully support what he said. It should be a matter of Government policy actively to initiate and support measures which would promote a more balanced distribution of Australian population and industry. I am concerned that the change of name which the Bill proposes for the National Urban and Regional Development Authority might mean a change of direction and a change of emphasis in our approach to population problems. I am concerned that a Cities Commission might confine its interest, as its name clearly suggests, to the cities. I know that the Minister for Urban and 
Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has spoken of cities both old and new in this context. I am not suggesting that the Cities Commission would confine its interest entirely to our established cities and their problems, although, of course, there is plenty of room for something to be done in that area. But even if it operates in the area of both old and new cities, that is not good enough. 
The problem of population imbalance cannot be solved through dealing with cities alone - by fixing up the old ones and building new ones. These things have to be done and new cities will probably be the most important ingredient in the recipe. But that is not enough in itself. The concept on which the previous Government based its approach was that of urban and regional development. We did not see the building of new cities as the only approach to regional development or decentralisation. We saw - and my Party still sees - regional development and decentralisation as a process involving a wide range of measures designed to foster the development of industry and hence the growth of population in many regional areas, not just at those points where new cities are to be established. We see the concept of true regional development as being based on all the resources of a region, both material and human. We believe that all Australians are entitled to the advantages which our growing national prosperity can provide and that these advantages must be available to the greatest possible extent, not just to the people of the cities old or new but to those who live and work throughout the nation. 
To a large extent the advantages which regional growth centres and new cities will bring will flow to people living in the surrounding regions. But unless there are conscious and deliberate efforts to make this happen, it would not happen to a sufficient extent. That is why I am worried about the Minister's motive in changing the name of this authority to the Cities Commission. I am worried that the authority might be simply what its name suggests, and that it will not take the broader view of regional development, the kind of view which I believe should be taken. I am worried that the Government, in taking this action, may be giving us a further indication of its lack of interest in the welfare of people who live outside the cities. No one has the slightest illusions about the 
Government's feelings in this direction. Statements by Ministers indicate that they are falling over each other in order to make plain their disregard for the welfare of country people and their anxiety to put country people in their places and do great things for all the Labor voters in the cities. So, in an attempt to give this authority a name which properly reflects and describes its functions, or the functions which we believe it should have, I have moved an amendment which provides that the name of the authority should be the Cities and Regional Development Commission. 
I should like to join in this debate and talk on 2 points. I. want to foreshadow first of all an amendment which proposes to change the name 'Cities Commission' to 'Cities and Regional Development Commission'. I believe this proposed amendment was mentioned in the House one night last week by the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  He will not be here today to move the proposed amendment, but 1 will do so. The other point to which I want to draw attention is the question of orderly development of the proposed new centres and the sort of land title that will be prescribed for them. This gives me a great deal of concern. I feel that we ought to be a little cautious about moving too rapidly until we know exactly how land titles will be worked out between the Commonwealth and the States. 
I commence by saying that I appreciate the efforts of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  in putting so much effort and enthusiasm into fostering the idea of the establishment of more regional centres.  His  efforts to get agreement between the Commonwealth and the States in relation to Albury-Wodonga have been commendable. This has been a part of a policy that was started by the previous Government. I had a good deal to do with getting the Commonwealth interested in participating with the States in a more active policy and program for helping with sub-metropolitan areas and with regional development. Naturally, I am delighted to see these activities being carried on. 
I believe that the concentration of population in our great capital cities is one of the nation's greatest problems. It will become manifestly greater as time goes on, unless something constructive and positive is done about it. Quite aggressive leadership will be required to make proposals such as those contained in this Bill a reality. Some of the old conventions that we have accepted may have to be bent a little to mould into this new policy that I believe is vital for the nation. We cannot allow Sydney and Melbourne, principally, to continue to grow in the way they have. We know that if the present trend does not change the population of those cities will double by the year 2000, which is only 27 years away. It we have problems at the moment with respect to urban living, we can imagine how much greater those problems and pressures will be if we cannot find a way to alleviate them. I believe that the method that should be adopted is to try to spread the Australian population in a better manner than the manner in which it has been distributed in the last 2 or 3 decades. 1 accept the concept that much work needs to be undertaken in the cities. Very great problems exist for local government authorities and State governments in attempting to meet growth pressures. We all are well aware of the environmental and social problems that have to be tackled. The stage has been reached where the Commonwealth will have to help foot the bill for some of this development. 1 think that it would be quite wrong if the major emphasis were placed on trying to correct the problem in the sub-metropolitan areas. I believe that if that course were adopted the problem would be intensified and more people would be attracted into those areas. This nation has to work out policies for greater dispersal of population not only to regional growth centres but also to every town and hamlet throughout the Commonwealth. 
I have always looked at the idea of regional growth centres as being just one of the prongs in a major attack with the idea of trying to hold population in existing settled areas or to spread population into less populated areas. I think it would be quite wrong to concentrate on that one method only. The planning of a growth centre with a concentration of activities in one specific area often can act adversely on the surrounding cities until that growth centre becomes a selfgenerating metropolis. An example of this occurred in Canberra in the course of its 40 or 50 years of development. In the early stages, when public funds were being pushed into its development, Canberra drew on the resources of surrounding towns, such as Queanbeyan, Yass and Goulburn, and this reacted adversely against them in drawing away some of their labour force. 
It will be a pity if, in the creation of these regional growth centres, the population of towns in surrounding areas diminishes. A broader based policy needs to be formulated so that, in the fostering of this growth concept, every town and village in the area surrounding a growth centre will have government funds available to it should an industry desire to go into such an area and develop. I am very pleased at the program that has developed in New South Wales. In that State the Minister for Decentralisation and Development has available to him funds - either loans or grants - to assist in the development of an enterprise in any town within the State. As a result, hundreds of new commercial enterprises have been started thus giving more employment opportunities. I believe that if the Commonwealth is to provide massive funds for these regional growth centres then some supplementary assistance for these other types of development programs would also be necessary. 
I see the development of a regional centre not just in itself but as the centre of a huge spider web network in which it would have to be ensured that the surrounding towns were given a degree of assistance. Because of my concern that we should not just concentrate on the metropolitan areas, I believe that the title of this Authority should also include the words 'Regional Development'. To talk of  it  merely in the terms of 'the Cities Commission' gives the impression to country people, rightly or wrongly, that it is only for the cities. I cannot help forming the impression that the present Government is more interested in concentrating its funds in this area than in adopting a broader national approach and giving emphasis to regional centres. I think it is appropriate that the title of the Authority should include the word 'Cities'. I do not deny that.. But I think there should be added to the title the words 'Regional Development*. This would embrace all communities and it would not have this bias that appears so immediately. The Government has shown a bias in its policies towards rural industries and to the mining industry. There is certainly a lack of sympathy and not much sensitivity about how this will affect people seeking employment and general commercial activities so I would have to think that in its approach to this matter of urban development the Government will concentrate entirely on the cities. 
There has been a lot of talk about the number of these regional cities in which the Government interesting itself. I do not know whether it is correct - and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development who is seated at the table might inform me on this - but I have been told that the Government is looking at something like 11 or 12 cities throughout Australia as possible growth centres. This is commendable in one way but I would be frightened if 12 or 13 areas or thereabouts were to be mentioned as growth centres until a firm plan is worked out as to how the authorities in each one of those areas will operate in relation to the local government authorities which are already there; how the land is to be acquired, under what terms the land will be acquired; and whether the development will be based on a system of leasehold land title. 
I have taken it from the statements that the Minister has made that he wants the development to be undertaken on a leasehold basis in accordance with the principle adopted in Canberra. I can understand why he wants it on a leashold basis - so that there will be complete control over the planning and the development of these areas. But there are a lot of people who have other ideas as to whether they want a leasehold system. I have not had any clear indication from the State governments as to whether they are going to accept the recommendation of the Minister. 
Let us not name 12 possible areas around Australia and have  a  continuing brawl as to what the land titles are going to be. I believe that once an area is named action will then have to be taken to prevent undue land speculation. I think the State governments and the Commonwealth Government have recognised this point of view. 
Well, some State governments. It is not unanimous by any means. It would be quite wrong if massive amounts of public funds were to be employed in developing these regional centres only to the advantage of speculators who might go in and take advantage of increments in land values. So I acknowledge the problem which is generated. 
If 12 areas are mentioned and if it becomes necessary to make a proclamation about land values in those areas, it would be a most regressive step for normal development in these areas. Nothing would put more fear into the minds of investors than the knowledge that they would not get a fair appreciation of their land values as the land values rose in those areas. Approximately 20 years ago a New South Wales State Labor Administration had a closer settlement scheme. The Government intended to subdivide rural properties for closer development purposes. A proclamation was made over the land concerned, fixing the price at something like 1941 land values. The people who owned the properties were not able to sell them at the true market value, subdivide them or do anything with them. The development of the land was stymied. Many good properties in the State had little development carried out on them because of the arbitrary decision which had been made. It was not until the change of government in New South Wales that some of the proclamations were lifted. If a town is told that it will be part of a regional development scheme and if little money is ploughed into that area for 5 or 10 years, everybody in the region will be penalised unduly. 
On 19th December the Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Robert  Askin, made a statement on this matter. He was referring to the Bathurst-Orange area and the Albury-Wodonga area. He said that land values prevailing on 3rd October 1972 will be adopted but due allowance will be made for the effective inflation on money values after that date. At least that statement is an appreciation of the fact that land values will rise and that land owners whose land is to be acquired will need to get some compensation for inflation. But what inflation index will be used? They are things which we need to know before areas are suggested as likely regional growth centres. I can not really encourage any centre to make a strong application to be a growth centre until 1 know clearly how the land title system will be worked out and, if land is to be acquired compulsorily, as it would have to be, how values will be determined. We know that if the Commonwealth were to acquire the land it would have to do so on fair and just terms at the time that the land is acquired. The Commonwealth cannot make a long standing proclamation about land. No doubt this is one of the reasons why the Commonwealth Government wants the State authorities to be the authorities for acquiring the land. No doubt some States want to do this so they can retain certain control over the operation. But it could cause tremendous injustice to people who might not get fair values for their properties if this matter is overlooked. 1 hope that the initial Albury-Wodonga scheme will be seen as a pilot scheme which will show how these things are to be worked out. I know that in Albury-Wodonga at the moment there is concern among members of the local government authority about the contribution which the States and the Commonwealth will make to the development of services in the area. I think that at the moment Albury has ideas about a new water scheme to supply the present growth rate, but this scheme would be quite inadequate if the town had multiplied at 2 or 3 times the predicted growth at the time the scheme was installed. Why should the present local council commit itself to heavy Joans and heavy indebtedness on a water scheme if really the whole arrangement is to be made incorrect by actions of a State or Commonwealth Government. What the council wants to know is whether the Commonwealth will provide the money for this sort of project. How the responsibility of that local council overlaps with that of the development authority is another question which needs to be resolved. 1 am not posing these questions to make it difficult. All I am doing is posing these questions to point out that they are real problems that need to be worked out. J am sure that given men and governments of good intention we can work them out. But let us know clearly where we are going before a whole lot of other towns are named. Immediately they are named the State governments will have to move, in and try to prevent speculation taking place. They will have to prevent developers going in and buying up large tracts of land which will happen immediately the names are mentioned. So I would caution the Government in the first place to enunciate quite clearly how the land title policy is to work, how compensation is to be paid and how this matter is to be inter-related with the local government authority. Until this is done I think we need to tread very cautiously about going too widely on naming a good many cities. 
The other point I want to come back to is that I hope that this system of decentralisation will not be the only one that the Commonwealth will be involved in. I want to see the Commonwealth have a policy whereby every town and every hamlet is given an opportunity to develop an industry with government assistance, if it is given a chance. 
Yes, I do. I support both concepts. 
It is not a case of that. The question is of whether both are capable of being implemented. It is being implemented in New South Wales where there is a policy whereby every town can get benefits. Of course, one has to have concentrated effort in one centre. I have enunciated this policy all along and have supported the con* cept that we need to have growth centres. This is the only way that we will get massive movement. Unless we do something to give other towns and cities an opportunity to develop we will tend to have the drift to the cities that we do not want. The whole emphasis of this Bill I believe is to try to ease the growth pressures on the capital cities which we all acknowledge have problems, and something has to be done about it. 
This BUI represents another component of the Government's patchwork quilt and anti-inflationary measures. A bewildering array of measures has been introduced and is about to be introduced to try to keep prices down while wages exert increasingly strong upward pressures. Seeing the inflationary kettle beginning to boil, the Government response is to clamp down the Hd and turn up the heat. The only result can be an explosion with many people being scalded. 
The Government's attitude is the most easily identifiable symptom of the economic madness afflicting this nation. Trade unions seek wage increases that relate more to aspiration levels than to productivity levels. The Government disburses money on the basis of political inclination rather than on a broad program founded on economic responsibility. Manufacturing industry is exhorted to keep prices down while costs soar upwards. Meat producers are under the threat of income reduction because of recent price increases, despite the fact that over the past decade prices have only just matched cost increases in the industry. lt is economic madness for the Government to run a projected Budget deficit of over S900m and then to be concerned at an overheated economy. It is economic madness for the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to suggest that a national wage decision adding nearly 6 per cent to the nation's wage bill - he wanted it to be more - should not lead to price increases. It is economic madness for average wages to be increasing by 10 per cent a year when productivity in nonrural industries over the past decade has fallen, lt is economic madness for the Government to attempt to remove the legal obstacles to industrial anarchy while at the same time calling for price restraint. It is economic madness to expect an unco-ordinated and hastily erected maze of price restraint devices to alter the basic realities of the present inflation problem in Australia. How bad is inflation in Australia? 
The answer is that it is very bad. 
I wish that the honourable member for Melbourne, who is interjecting, would recognise that this is a serious problem and try to persuade his Party to do something about it. Prices are increasing at a rate of about 6 per cent per annum and all the indications are that the rate is accelerating and soon will be reaching runaway dimensions. This is twice the average rate of the last decade. The  chairman  of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd,  Sir Ian  McLennan, said recently that an inflation rate of 3 per cent per annum was wearable. Now he says: 
I have never struck anything as worrying as what we are going through at the moment. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  says that he recognises inflation as the nation's No. 1 economic problem. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  says that inflation is the main cloud on the horizon. I suggest that inflation is of more substance as a problem than just a cloud on the horizon. I suggest that it is a major preoccupation of the people of Australia. 
If the Government is sincere in its conviction that inflation is a major problem, the first step is for the Government to make it clear that the defeat of inflation ranks first and foremost among its economic priorities. It must match its expression of concern with action. It must rank the defeat of inflation above the soothing of the unions' industrial desires and the smoothing of their feathers. It must rank this battle above the determination of the Prime Minister to deliver the goods by means of increased Government spending. The Government should describe in clear and unmistakable terms the community responsibility which it must exercise if this battle is to be won. This call for Government leadership relates not only to a more forthright expression of Government concern but also to positive indications that the Government is willing to set an example to the rest of the community. It is counter-productive to express concern about inflation and to support union demands for higher wages, shorter hours of work and longer holidays. The Government must accept the fact that there is a vast difference between being politically" popular and accepting national responsibility. 
There is nothing essentially mysterious about the inflation that is currently being experienced in Australia. It does not derive from a national bout of profiteering by Australian companies; there is no evidence to suggest that profit margins are being expanded. It is not the result of a national business conspiracy to systematically plunder the consumer in the interests of higher profits. Rather is it the result of wages and salaries racing far ahead of productivity. It is the result of irresponsible Government economic management. It is inconsistent to call for restraint by manufacturers while the Australian Government's expenditure for the first 9 months of 1972-73 rose by 10 per cent on last year's level. For the first 9 months of 1972-73 the Government increased expenditure by 10 per cent while its receipts increased by only 5 per cent. To put it simply, our inflation is the result of the work force receiving more than it has earned and the Government spending more than it has received. Australia stands in clear danger of drifting into the same kind of economic chaos that overtook the British economy. Our long term inflationary rate of 3 per cent per annum was admirable by world standards, but we are now inflating at about the same rate as the British. 
This Bill does not represent a panacea for the nation's economic problems. It does not even indicate that the Government has correctly diagnosed the problem, much less seriously considered it. I quote from the second reading speech of the Treasurer on this Bill. He said: 
In introducing this Bill the Government is certainly not pretending that some simple solution has been revealed to it. We have, it is true, learnt a good deal from experience elsewhere, and one of the most obvious lessons is that policies to contain inflation must be broad and multi-pronged. 
Let us look at the policies tried overseas. In Canada the government established a prices and incomes commission in 1969 which sought agreement from the unions, business and the Government to a program of voluntary restraint. The unions rejected the proposal but business and professional leaders accepted price restraint. The commission turned out to be a failure because wages continued to forge ahead making it impossible to bold price restraint. Voluntary price control measures of the 1960s in the United States of America were as ineffective as the more recent Canadian moves. Governments in the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States of America, to quote some key examples, have tried voluntary price control. There are some important conclusions to be drawn from their experiences. 
Firstly, short term price freezes are perhaps successful in the short term, but they merely defer the problem. If they are to succeed they should be seen as an introduction to long term restraints. Secondly, long term restraints if they are to succeed must be more broadly based than on a program of voluntary price restraints without other fundamental restraint measures. Bitter experience overseas has eventually led to a 2-pronged approach utilising firstly monetary and fiscal policies and secondly price control measures accompanied - I emphasise this - accompanied by wage restraints. This is a reality which the Australian Government refuses to face. The Government of the United Kingdom has established a pay board to ensure that wage rises are limited to 1 a week plus 4 per cent but not to exceed 4.8, and a price commission to which large firms and nationalised industries must submit proposed price increases. Increases are allowed only for inescapable costs like wage increases and wage rises within the specified norm. Moreover, trading profit and distributors' margins are controlled, share options frozen and dividend increases limited to 5 per cent. 
The Treasurer claims to have learned a good deal from experience elsewhere. If he has there is precious little evidence of it. The Bill before us represents part of a range of mutually inconsistent and half thought out economic statements made and measures introduced by this Government. The proposed tribunal will not be able to alter the cost pressures at present bearing on prices although it will publicly establish the reality of those pressures. There is no indication of what staff backing will be available to the tribunal in its investigations. There is no indication of what criteria will be adopted in considering what constitutes a justifiable price increase. The tribunal will not be interested in mining and exporting companies. There is something strangely inconsistent in the Treasurer attributing a substantial measure of the rise of consumer prices to meat and then saying: 'We do not care what foreigners pay for our goods.' Perhaps the Treasurer is not aware that the meat industry is export oriented and that increases in meat prices reflect the world shortage of meat. 
One might pursue the economic logic of the Australian Labor Party a little further and quote from its greatest economic exponent, the Minister for Labour. In a fresh exposition of Cameronian economics he said recently that the Government should attack price rises, not wage rises. 'It is price rises which after all constitute inflation', he said. Continuing his expedition into uncharted areas of economics the man who sought $11.50 a week increase in the national wage stated: 'By discouraging price increases we automatically discourage employers from granting increases in wages and salaries.' As the final pearl of wisdom he concluded: 'A prices policy effectively becomes an incomes policy.' I suggest that the Prime Minister should despatch  Mr Cameron  with all possible haste to advise  Mr Heath  of his revolutionary anti-inflationary discovery as a contribution to the restoration of the British economic fortunes. I personally am grateful that the Minister for Labour is not my doctor, for he would be liable to diagnose the cause of old age as thinning hair and need for glasses. 1 referred earlier to the unco-ordinated array of anti-inflationary devices being set up by the Australian Labor Party. In case any.one is tempted to think that the remark was empty rhetoric. I shall briefly outline the. steps a manufacturer would have to go through if he wished to raise the price of one of his products on an Australia-wide basis. Let us take, for example, a large manufacturer of bread. In South Australia the price of his product would be subject to mandatory price control. If he wished to raise the price in New South Wales he would be subject to the determinatmon of a maximum price by the New South Wales Prices Commissioner. The Labor Opposition in Victoria has promised to introduce price controls if it wins the State election. But this is not the end of the obstacle course. The Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices set up on 12th April has authority to investigate complaints on the prices the manufacturer is charging and to initiate investigation into price movements in his industry. Furthermore, if his business receipts exceed $20m a year his proposed price increase will be subject to inquiries by the Prices Justification Tribunal. And, as the coup de grace, the 
Western Australian Government has resubmitted a Prices Control Bill which is being debated at present. 
Honourable members may consider this to be an extreme example but 1 can assure them that it is indicative of the present hotchpotch of anti-inflationary measures set up or being considered in Australia. The Prime Minister's answer to inflation is to set up - you guessed it - a committee of Commonwealth and State officials to meet in Melbourne on 26th May to consider State action to reinforce the Federal prices justification legislation. It will be of little solace to our bread manufacturer to know that the Prime Minister does not think it realistic to expect really to control wages and salaries. 
A simple piece of arithmetic would clearly illustrate the difficulties confronting a prices justification tribunal concept. In 1970-71 350 companies were eligible for examination by a tribunal such as that set up by this Bill. Let us be conservative and assume that each company applies to vary the price of, say, 10 products each year on the average. That adds up to 3,500 price variation examinations a year. Obviously the greater the number of applications the less effective the public impact of subsequent tribunal decisions on each one will be. If after an examination of a proposed price the tribunal gives approval on the ground that the price increase request is based on increased wage costs, the function of the tribunal becomes nothing more than that of a rubber stamping authority. If the tribunal does not allow for wage cost increases, the business seeking to pass on costs will be forced out of production. 
I think of no better example than that of BHP in its present predicament. It was prepared to try to co-operate with the Government. It made a request to  Mr Justice  Moore for an increase of 7 per cent in steel prices, which it felt it needed. On a preliminary examination the commissioner decided that 3 per cent was sufficient. The Government backed up the decision and allowed only a 3 per cent price increase, the result being that BHP has now deferred $l,300m worth of expansion because it is uneconomic to continue. Is this the sort of decision we will get out of a prices justification tribunal? If it is it will only lead to a dampening of expansion and confidence in Australian industry. It seems to make little sense to have such an authority without also attacking other basic cost pressures. In New South Wales, under a Labor government, such an authority operated immediately after the war from 1946 to 1949, but it was eventually abandoned as it was considered to be useless, lt was nothing more than a rubber stamping authority justifying price increases on wage increases which were flowing through. 1 am worried by the haphazard way the nation's economy is being handled. 1 am worried by an evident lack of Government appreciation of the nature of the current wage-prices rat race. The disjointed set of committees and tribunals is no substitute for a systematic and rationally based Government campaign against inflation, but there will be no such campaign until the Government accepts the fact, however unpalatable, that the major contributor to inflation is wage increases in excess of productivity rises. In the current economic environment there are no winners; we are all losers. The wage earner loses because taxation and inflation take the substance out of his wage increases. The manufacturer loses because he is subjected to intolerable cost pressures and possesses little range of pricing options. The consumer loses because the dollar is depreciating in purchasing power by 6 per cent per annum. The exporter loses because Australia's rate of inflation is rising almost as fast as that of any of our major competitors around the world. The pensioner loses because his income is fixed and is being systematically reduced in purchasing power. The farmer loses because he was never able to pass his costs on, and costs are running at such a rate that they are practically out of control and too much for him to cope with. 
I call on the Government to recognise the reality of the position and demonstrate some leadership in the matter. What is being discussed is not some paper concept that is of academic interest to certain people but something of concern to all Australians. Inflation, if not checked, can be destructive of the very fabric of our society. It sets the consumer against the producer, the employee against the employer and the farmer against the housewife. I call for serious consideration to be given to the introduction of the concept of productivity bargaining in wage determination procedures. In this process higher pay and other benefits are related to the acceptance by employees of some change in the method and practice of work which will lead to greater efficiency of operations and productivity. This technique was a major innovation in British industrial relations in the 1960s and would inject a fruitful new criterion into the negotiations arena. 
This Bill and the attitude it represents are not good enough. What is needed before this perfunctory legislation is enacted is a totally co-ordinated approach by the States and the Commonwealth in attacking all aspects of inflationary pressures. This means that the Commonwealth will have to face up to its obligations by recognising the effects on inflation of wages and incomes and not be frightened and dictated to by trade union pressures and accept that this matter can be overlooked and is of no importance. The Bill is nothing more than a political front to cloud the real issue of inflation and the responsibility of the present Government to do something about it. 
I direct my question to the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Defence. Has HMAS 'Supply' been ordered to sail to the French nuclear test zone? Does the fact that the ship is in dry dock raise any problems in carrying out this instruction? If the ship does sail to the zone, can the Minister give an assurance that the men who volunteered to make the trip will be fully protected against the dangers of radiation and its consequences? 
I wish to direct a question to the Treasurer. Is the Treasurer able to give the House any information about suggestions that there may be a further devaluation of the American dollar? In any event, will the Treasurer assure the House that the Australian Government will not tamper further with the Australian dollar in such a way as to compound the damage already done to our export industries, Further, will the Treasurer inform the House what benefits have resulted from the revaluation of the Australian dollar, especially in the form of lower prices on imports? Perhaps he will consider preparing a  statement for the House setting out this information. 
 Primary producers traditionally face uncertainties caused by factors such as low world prices, bad weather and changing demands over which neither they nor their government have any control. All farmers face uncertainty from these sources, but today Australian farmers face new kinds of uncertainty - the uncertainty of not knowing whether the Australian Government will support them and the uncertainty of working under a government which seems to be going out of its way to hurt them and to demonstrate its lack of concern for and understanding of their needs. Any government creating this kind of uncertainty by its own deliberate actions is deserving of the strongest censure. The practical effect of the Government's attitude to primary industry can be seen in a number of matters. Firstly, the Government's only 2 spokesmen on primary industries, such as they are, were deprived of the primary industry portfolio by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  This was not just accidental. It was part of the Prime Minister's deliberate strategy to keep the primary producer in his place. 
Next, the Government made a decision on the exchange rate and then compounded that mistake with another causing primary producers and all exporters very considerable losses. Yet despite this deliberate action, which was said to be in the national interest - and this has yet to be shown - the Government has refused to provide compensation for the losses it caused. The Government added insult to injury by putting up a spurious adjustment assistance scheme that is not even worth the paper it is written on. A favourite expression of the Government is 'reallocation of resources.' The Government, of course, is involved in a massive program of resource reallocation, shifting incomes from the productive rural industries to the consumer oriented cities. The Government is putting its mouth and its money where the votes are and the Government's anti-rural bias becomes more evident every day. This is shown in its efforts to control meat prices, the cuts in funds for wool research and promotion with a bigger load on growers, procrastination on wheat stabilisation while Cabinet and Caucus brawl about it and reduced funds for rural reconstruction. All of these things are bringing uncertainties to primary producers. 
The Government has established an economic task force to find ways of pruning existing support programs, not to mention the Government's attack on the political representation of the country area, country telephones and so on. But the worst factor is the Government's unwillingness to make long term decisions. We have been hearing for 20 years about the Labor Party's great policies for agriculture. Yet, when that Party gets into office and has a chance to act, what does it do? It starts hesitating and putting off, as in the delaying tactics of a referendum in regard to the merino embargo, the wool research program which will run for 1 year only and which will be allocated less money; wheat stabilisation which will be postponed for 1 year; incentive payments for wheat which will run for 1 year only; and rural reconstruction which will operate for 1 year only and will attract less money. 
After 20 or more years the Labor Party still does not know what its rural policies are. After harping for years on the need for planning, the Labor Government is, by its own lack of planning and its inability to make decisions, destroying whatever chance rural industries might have had to do their own planning on a firm and predictable basis. The procrastination of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  in the face of the need to make policy decisions has reached such dimensions as to constitute a real cause for alarm. When decisions are belatedly forthcoming they are inconclusive and usually reflect the Labor Party's attitude of denigration of country people. Rural industry is becalmed on a sea of Government indecision. The impression given is that rural industry is regarded by the Government with something of the same fondness as the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  holds for building societies. 
A large part of the problem lies, of course, in the tortuous processes of the Labor Government's decision making or non-decision making. Cabinet committees and party committees look at proposals; then there is a full Cabinet discussion involving 27 people; then Caucus must look at the matters and perhaps send them back to Cabinet - and so it goes on. A list of instructions has even been issued to Ministers by Caucus as to how decisions are to be made. While all this shunting back and forth goes on, the losers are all too often the primary producers who are waiting to find out what the Government intends to do. 
There are many examples of this, but one will suffice: Since coming into office the Minister for Primary Industry has had before him the compelling problems of the apple and pear industry. The nature of these problems has been exhaustively examined and the Minister has been faced with a clear set of policy options.  His  response has been to call conference after conference and to assert again and again that he is considering the matter.  His  latest pronouncement on this matter was issued in Hobart on 13 May after yet another meeting on it. He said: 'I am not going to be stampeded into hasty decisions.' 
The worst fears of Australia's primary producers were confirmed by a speech in Paris in April by the Minister for Primary Industry. I shall quote some of the things he said. He said: 
We will not be offering assistance to agriculture for the purposes of stimulating production. 
That is almost a criminal attitude for a national government to take at a time when there is a world food shortage and when droughts on 3 continents threaten famine of disastrous proportions. I do not support the encouragement of unthinking production when it is not needed; but at the moment it is needed in several commodities. We should be encouraging grain and meat production, but the Government's agricultural policies are working in the opposite direction. With wheat, for example, the Minister said in his speech in Paris: 
Any price guarantee the Government may sanction will be strictly limited. It will not be open-ended. 
We know now, of course, that he has been forced to back down on that threat. The Government has given an open-ended commitment to the wheat industry, although for only one more year. I welcomed the incentive payment added to the first advance for this year, but let no one think that that reprieve will be for any longer than one year. The Labor Partys' rural rump, as it is called, has not got a hope of winning in the end because the whole of the Labor Party's strategy runs in the opposite direction. Labor knows where its votes are, and that is what counts. That is why the Government wants to control meat prices. 
What else did the Minister say in Paris? He said that the Government was setting up a protection commission. That is a misnomer if ever I have heard one. The commission will not protect rural industry; it will attack it The Minister made it clear in his speech that the commission's job will not be to advise on helping to build up primary industry but on scaling down primary industry. One of the worst things the Minister did in Paris was to call on other nations to co-operate in the Labor Party's program to reduce the support given to Australia's agricultural producers. I recall that there was a great howl of anguish from the Labor Party last year when I called on International corporations in this country to resist, in the national interest and in the interest of all Australians, the pressure for shorter working hours. Yet here we have a Labor Minister calling for international support in the launching of an attack on Australia's primary producers. When I did it to help the whole of the Australian people it was wrong: When a Labor Minister does it to attack our primary producers it is right. 
There should be no misunderstanding about the Australian Country Party's position. No one has spoken more, and done more, about encouraging Australian farmers to accept the need for adjustment in their industries than I have. But, unlike the Government and the Minister, I am not committed to a program of dismantling the assistance which agriculture receives and is entitled to receive. The Minister for Primary Industry made his Government's attitude clear when he spoke to the rural conference of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party at Healesville on 10 March. He said: 
We don't want the rural sector to become one vast sheltered region soaking up scarce public funds. 
No one does. What that comment does is demonstrate the Labor Party's historic antagonism towards the rural industry. It is interesting to note that the conference the Minister was addressing folded up after one day. Not enough people turned up to make up a quorum; so they gave it away and went home. Commenting on that after the Minister had addressed the conference the Assistant State Secretary of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Butler,  said that no worth while rural policies bad been put forward at the conference. He said that the attendance was disgraceful. 
The Labor Party's record on rural finance also is disgraceful. The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  in a most effective confidence trick, talked during the last election campaign of making low interest finance available to farmers in massive amounts. He mentioned a sum of $500m at 3 per cent interest But the deception did not rest only in the words of the Minister for Immigration. The Labor Party's official rural policy leaflet also spoke of long term low interest loans to farmers. In his policy speech the Prime Minister said that the ready availablitiy of long term low interest finance was fundamental to Labor's policies. Yet all we have seen so far is the Prime Minister's statement yesterday that the Development Bank legislation is to be amended. 
Again let there be no doubt as to where the Country Party stands on this issue. I have said repeatedly in recent years that I believe that the term of a loan is far more important than the interest rate. I have urged primary producers to accept the view that they should strive to meet ruling market rates of interest for their normal borrowing operations. There was nothing in my policy speech about low interest rates other than for rural reconstruction purposes. There has been no deception by the Country Party. It has become clear now that the Minister for Immigration and the Government as a whole pulled a deliberate and shabby confidence trick on Australian farmers. In raising this matter of public importance I want to ask questions of the Government. 
1 should like to enter into this debate on the Grants Commission Bill which, for the first time, provides for direct Commonwealth assistance to local government authorities in Australia. Whilst I have no objection to the objective of this Bill to provide money for local government authorities, I find it difficult to accept the administrative arrangements proposed in the Bill. I think all honourable members will accept that local government authorities in Australia are finding themselves in an increasingly difficult financial position. It has become obvious that if local government  authorities are to have sufficient funds to meet their heavy commitments, the Commonwealth must become involved. This attitude was accepted by the previous Government, although no firm policy arrangements had been worked out. I accept that the Labor Party at the last election put forward certain proposals and as it won the election it has a degree of mandate to enable it to seek this amendment to the Grants Commission Act. However, in the course of my speech I will move an amendment which, while not opposing the Bill, will take note of objections that we see to the Bill and the need for a more simplified means of distributing money to local government authorities. 
Local government in Australia is the creation of the State governments and is legally subordinate to them. The boundaries and the functions of local government may be redrawn by the States. The Commonwealth influence to date has been indirect with no formal role and even if the administration of this new Bill demonstrates that there is a need for direct Commonwealth involvement, it will have to be by way of section 96 grants through the State governments. The needs of local government and semi-government authorities have been considered at Loan Council meetings on the basis that the allocation of borrowing rights amongst local bodies is again the responsibility of State governments. The functions of local government are difficult to enunciate precisely. They vary considerably. The local government Acts specify the duties and provide a lengthy list of services or jurisdictions which may be undertaken by a council if it chooses. So it is quite clear that the constitutional responsibility for local governments lies with the State governments and whatever we do as a Commonwealth Government has to take this aspect into consideration. 
From a study of the financial situation of local governments it is quite easy to see why a crisis is developing. The total expenditure by local government authorities in 1970-71 amounted to $766m, which is 7 per cent of the total governmental expenditure in this country. This percentage has been fairly constant over a period of time and it is broken down into something like 9 per cent for cultural and recreational facilities, 9 per cent for the development of resources and assistance to industry, 37 per cent for roads and bridges, 11 per cent for interest and 9 per cent for administration. The interest burden, however, is growing rapidly. In the 10 years from 1960 to 1970 this burden has risen from 8 per cent to nearly 11 per cent today. The administration percentage also is rising. I think that the attitudes of the present Government toward wage conditions will only accelerate the difficulties of local government. With policies of shorter working hours, greater penalties and higher wage conditions local government bodies will be affected very severely and will have to pass these conditions on to the ratepayers. No Prices Justification Tribunal or anything else can overcome this problem. Wage conditions have a direct influence on the rates that must be paid by ratepayers. 
A break-up of the revenue received by local government authorities is as follows: Taxes 55 per cent; profit from public enterprises 14 per cent; and State grants 11 per cent. Indeed, local government raises 87 per cent of its revenue from iits own resources. This is a very high level by world standards. The indebtedness position of local government also is worrying. The share of total government debts has risen from 1960 to 1970 from 6 per cent to 8 per cent, a worrying feature in itself. But the most dynamic growth has been with semi-government authorities where the debt has increased from 24 per cent to 29 per cent. The local government debt now stands at $l,619m. It is quite clear from the financial circumstances that local government is drifting into a serious and impossible situation. For this reason it is necessary for the Commonwealth Government now to become involved in helping to finance the operations of local government. 
The Australian Council of Local Government is pressing for greater financial assistance from the Commonwealth and State governments and it would appear that increases in local government revenue in recent years have failed to keep pace with other levels of government expenditure. Receipts between 1967-68 and 1971-72 show that Commonwealth revenue has gone up by 61 per cent, the States' revenue by 63 per cent and local government revenue by only 38 per cent. Is it little wonder that they are finding circumstances extremely difficult? The case for financial assistance is no doubt due to the drift of population. A decline in population in the rural areas means that the greater share of the revenue by local government bodies has to be financed by fewer ratepayers whereas in city areas the congestion of population is placing undue strains upon local government in providing the necessary services. 
The proposal by the local government authorities that the Commonwealth should provide a special section of its income revenue needs closer examination. They are proposing that 5 per cent of total income tax collections be used by local government authorities. Of the income tax expected to be collected in the current year that would amount to about $290m. This proposal runs counter to what has been a basic budgetary principle held by the Commonwealth and which I believe would be held by the present Government; that is, that revenue from any particular source should not be earmarked for any specific purpose. The Commonwealth has held that each claim for money should be considered on its merits against competing claims. The previous Government believed that allocations should not be tied to the yield of any particular tax. It saw collections from income tax as forming part of the general revenues of the Commonwealth from which a wide range of expenditures had to be financed. It believed that priorities accorded the competing claims for money should be decided from year to year on the basis of the best possible assessment it could make of the needs of each section of the national community. 
It should also be kept in mind that revenue from income tax fluctuates in an irregular manner that is not in any way related to movements in local government needs. For example, income tax collections fell in 1958-59 and there was practically no growth at all in 1962-63. So it does not follow that allocations tied to income tax would yield a regular and steady growth in local government finance. There are also difficulties in distribution amongst the States of grants raised in the manner suggested. For example, distribution in proportion to income tax collections would favour the wealthier States. There would be distortions because large companies pay their income tax through head offices - usually in Sydney or Melbourne - on the income they derive from operations throughout Australia. 
Again, a distribution on the basis of some assessment of the needs of local government would be difficult. There is a very large number of local government authorities throughout Australia. Although their broad functions are generally the same, local government authorities in different parts of Australia face quite different circumstances. The previous Government took the view that because local government authorities are created by State governments and function under State laws they are a State responsibility and the determination of what financial assistance should be given to local government is a matter primarily for State governments. However, whilst the previous Government did not accept the 'five per cent' proposal, it did take a number of steps to increase the finance available to local government. I mention the very large increases in general revenue grants, the transference of payroll tax to the States and the exemption of local government non-business activities from payroll tax at the old rate. Vast amounts of money went to local government under the Commonwealth aid roads scheme. 
The thing that has largely contributed to the financial problems of local government has been the burdening of local government with a lot of new responsibilities. A range of community and welfare services is now expected to be provided by local government. The activities of local government today extend far beyond the traditional role of providing services to ratepayers - the property owners. I have frequently expressed the view that the changing nature of the services provided by local government makes me wonder whether the main method of raising funds - that is, through rates assessed on property values - should not be modified or amended in some generally acceptable way. I think it has to be seriously asked, for instance, whether the cost of services and facilities which benefit the whole community should be mainly borne by property owners. I know that a great deal of consideration has been given to this question, but it is a difficult one and remains unanswered. 
It is my view that local government should have wider power than it now has to raise revenue. I believe that the best form of government is one in which the authority to raise money and spend it stays close to the people. It seems to me that the whole question of local government - its position in our national administrative structure, its role, its responsibilities and especially its finance - must be looked at. The Grants Commission certainly is not able to meet all of the problems in relation to local government. I believe that the appropriate place to do that would be at the constitutional review convention later this year, when we will have to consider what the relationship is going to be between the Commonwealth and local government authorities. 
I believe that the prime objective of this type of legislation should be threefold. Firstly, the yearly Commonwealth allocation should be predictable in the amount to allow for forward planning by local government. The present grants system is, to a degree, unpredictable and therefore not a reliable source of revenue to local government or any council wishing to plan ahead. The result is often that it is not possible for a council to take into consideration such grants in forward planning programs. Secondly, the grants should be aimed specifically at the reduction or at least stabilisation of rates. By way of example, the general metropolitan increase in rates has been approximately 25 per cent this year. In country areas, rate increases this year have been up to 57 per cent - for example, in the Gloucester shire in New South Wales. If grants are not somehow tied to rate reductions or stabilisation, they will be used in addition to and not as part of a council's normal revenue and loan program so as to stabilise or reduce rates. Thirdly, grants should be channelled through State governments, but local government and ratepayers as such should have some say in the distribution. The objective of this is to ensure a fair and reasonable distribution throughout each State and to safeguard against undue political interference. 
The present legislation suggests that there should be distribution on a regional basis. In my view that would unduly restrict the use to which grants can be put by individual councils as the limit of regional projects is relatively small - for example, regions are often opposed to some local projects. It is for those reasons that I wish to move the following amendment: 
That all words after That* be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: while not refusing to give the Bill a second reading, this House deplores the establishment of a complex new bureaucratic Commonwealth mechanism and is of opinion that the Bill should have provided that: 
immediate consultations be held with the States to determine the financial requirements of local government taking into account their loan commitments, their overall financial responsibilities and the burden of rates on ratepayers; 
funds provided to meet these requirements should be allocated to State governments for distribution to local government in accordance with priorities determined by the States after consultation with local government; and 
payments should commence in 1973-74.*. 
It is not the intention of the Opposition to oppose this legislation because it believes the Government has to a degree a mandate to put it into effect. In fact, the Opposition is very much in favour of the objective of the legislation, which is to help overcome the crisis that is developing in the financing of local government authorities. The Opposition believes, however, that the administrative arrangements are unnecessary. It believes that they are a duplication of the State apparatus. A whole new mechanism which is quite unnecessary is to be set up. For instance, there is in the New South Wales a Grants Commission which already has a tremendous amount of information as to the operations of local government and which could easily, fairly and justly distribute finance according to needs. This Bill could, if applied harshly, infringe the rights and responsibilities of the State governments. For that reason, I have reservations about the bureaucratic interference of the Commonwealth Government. 
The Commonwealth has the money - that ls true. It is a matter of knowing how best to distribute it. I believe that the State governments are in the best position, having the knowledge and the experience, to determine the priorities as to where money should be best spent. That is referred to in a part of the amendment I have moved. I believe that the setting up of a new bureaucratic mechanism will cause undue delay in the providing of the financial assistance which is urgently needed. I see little hope of finance actually getting to the needy local government authorities by the year 1973-74. I do not believe the Department of Urban and Regional Development has the expertise at this point of time to perform the necessary administration. That can be done only by the use of the facilities that the State governments have available. This Bill is too vague in what it seeks to do. Whilst it would be quite wrong to try to interfere with the processing of this Bill, I believe it is right formally to put before the House by way of the amendment I have moved some of the reservations that the Opposition has about the Bill. I believe it is important that we on this side of the House should demonstrate our views in this mild way, that is, by way of an amendment which will not stymie the passage of the Bill but which states quite emphatically that we are not in favour of the setting up in Canberra of a bureaucratic instrumentality which is unnecessary and which seeks to bypass the functions of the State governments. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Is the amendment seconded? 
The Australian Country Party supports the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Bill. However, I must express some reservations and some fears about what could emanate from the amendments that are proposed to this legislation. Perhaps experience might show them to be unfounded. This Bill is designed to expand the scope of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation to allow it to engage in construction work in Australia with a wider range of tasks than has been permitted by the existing legislation. It is not what is known about the legislation that is of so much concern to me as what is not known about it. It is the shadow of the intent rather than the substance that gives me concern. It should be a general rule that statutory bodies of government officials are established to perform useful functions. They should not be established as an expression of the political belief that there should be government involvment in an area of the economy simply because that area is important. Similarly, given that the existence of statutory organisations is indicative of the need for their existence, once the purpose for their intended role has disappeared or changed the nature of the organisations should be changed. In other words, the legal structure and functions of the Corporation reflect the apparent requirement for it in the economy. This is a sensible and pragmatic approach and, being consequently devoid of ideological preconceptions, it is one that the Australian Labor Party apparently seems to reject. 
It seems to me that the Labor Party has an almost spiritual attachment to statutory organisations and an almost mystic belief in their universal appropriateness. By contrast, the Country Party approaches this legislation in an objective and constructive manner. I believe that legislation relating to statutory organisations should be subject to 5 criteria. Firstly, will the Corporation play a role in the development of Australia that could not successfully be filled by existing organisations? Secondy, is the role envisaged by the Corporation an appropriate one for a statutory body to fill, given the basic nature of the Australian economy and poltical system? Thirdly, is the resultant utilisation of public funds appropriate in view of the increasing and diverse demands for government expenditure on a national basis? Fourthly, will the Corporation's operations lead to a net increase in the national welfare to an extent not otherwise possible? Fifthly, will the aggregate benefits provided by the Corporation sufficiently offset the adverse competitive impact on sectors of the private enterprise economy, through the Corporation's access to public funds, to justify its actions? 
These are real and fair tests that ought to be applied to this legislation. However, the answers cannot be clearly received as the intentions of the Bill are rather vague and indefinite. I am not implacably opposed to State intervention in the economy simply because of ideological implications. Each case must be looked at on its own merits. However, it would seem to me that the tasks of the proposed new expanded Corporation should be made clear by the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  before Parliament is asked to authorise legislation which could enable the Corporation to become the biggest construction group in Australia. 
In 1970 the Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric Authority employed some 3,000 men and was geared to the super-vision of approximately $40m worth of work a year. The action of the previous Government to subsequently limit the operations of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation and to arrange a specific list of matters was not taken out of political malice. It was taken for the very good reason that once the duties of the Authority had changed its nature had to be altered to take account of the circumstances. It did not want to retain a very large construction organisation simply because of an emotional reluctance to see it diminished in size. The functions of the present organisation have enabled it to engage in some very useful work for the nation. It has operated at a substantial profit and has had a full work load. If the Government wishes to expand the scope of the organisation it should make clear how it is to meet the 5 criteria I have listed, and what duties it envisages the organisation performing. The lack of a statutory organisation of this nature in the past has not prevented massive development work being carried out in Australia. lt has not prevented the rapid mineral development of this nation and the exploration and exploitation of previously untapped energy resources. 
What I suspect is that from an organisation with a useful supplementary role in the economy, performing with distinction on a profitable basis, the Corporation will become a gigantic government-controlled construction authority serving, in a most clumsy and unwieldy manner, the dual purpose of satisfying the socialistic instincts of the Labor Party and, in a heavy-handed way, the use of overseas capital and skills in the development of Australian resources. I emphasise the word 'suspect' although from the Minister's second reading speech we have a subtle hint that the Corporation's relevance will be in relation to mining and to the construction of the gas pipeline between, I presume, South Australia and Sydney. 
One would never have guessed from the bland second reading speech of the Minister that this legislation is one of the most potentially dangerous pieces of legislation one could imagine for State and Commonwealth relations. At present, the Corporation has broad functions associated with engineering work in a Commonwealth territory. Where the Corporation's activities relate to a State, the Minister shall not approve Corporation activities unless they are related to underground work and work associated with the development of water resources for the generation and the transmission of electricity. The existing Act shows that it was the intention of the Parliament that the Corporation may operate in a State, subject to these restrictions. The Commonwealth Parliament has power to limit the extent to which the Corporation may perform functions with the authority of State law, and it has done so. 
All the States - Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania - have passed legislation complementary to the Act. That State legislation permits the Corporation to operate legally within a State in relation to those matters with respect to which the Commonwealth Parliament does not have power to make laws. The State legislation also controls the Corporation's operations in the State in order to protect the operations of existing construction authorities and consultant facilities in the State. What do the proposed amendments entail? The Corporation would be able to engage in the construction of engineering works not only outside Australia but also inside Australia. Previous restrictions as to its scope would be eliminated. Under the amendment to section 27 of the Act the Corporation would be given potential preferential borrowing rights. I oppose provisions of this nature under which the Corporation could well be in competition with existing organisations in the construction industry. 
The Australian Country Party opposed a similar financial provision in the Australian National Airlines Bill and was assured by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  in the Committee stage that it was intended that in practice Trans-Australia Airlines would not be given preferential borrowing rights. I hope it is not too much to look for a similar assurance from the Minister for Housing in relation to the amendments to this Act. But here is the crunch: The restrictions which the Commonwealth Parliament imposes on the Corporation in its operations in the States are to be removed. If the States go along with these increased powers and amend their complementary legislation, all will be done legally. But if the States do not go along with this the Corporation may exercise its newly acquired functions in a State to the extent that the Commonwealth legal authority over-rides State legal authority. 
To what extent is this the case? Here we are getting into complex legal areas, but in a nutshell it is quite likely that the Commonwealth can over-ride State objections to an almost unlimited extent through, for example, the Commonwealth defence powers. Let us take an example. Section 32 of the Act is to be amended so that the Corporation must acquire property under the Lands Acquisition Act 1955-1966 if it wishes to acquire land or property at all. This means in the final analysis that the Corporation could compulsorily acquire land in Sydney and build on that land any type of structure or engineering work. This could be done despite all the objections of the State planning authorities and the State Government. The Further one looks into this Bill the more significant its implications become. If the off-shore area could be legally defined as Commonwealth territory, the Corporation could engage in the engineering works and construction activities related to mineral exploration in the off-shore areas of Australia. 
The foregoing explains my earlier concern that the Government should indicate what its intentions are. Are my fears imaginary or are they real? That is the important question that needs to be answered. If the Government's actions are commensurate with the legal provisions of this Bill the position is a very serious one indeed. 1 believe it is necessary for me to highlight my concern and to give warning to those people who may not believe that there are any dangers inherent in this Bill. If the Government has certain latent socialistic views and intends bringing them into action, all I can say is that in the future this sort of legislation will have to be strongly opposed. The Opposition will take whatever action it can to see that those areas of the Bill which tend towards state and monopoly control and undue competition with free enterprise which could ordinarily undertake this work are removed. 
The Government has moved an amendment to clause 18 of the Bill involving an addition of 3 subclauses. The need for these amendments, I believe, is a reflection of the hasty, ill-thought out manner in which the legislation was drafted and now the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  finds that the Prices Justification Bill as it presently stands is essentially unworkable. The proposed Tribunal would be liable to examine prices for a whole range of retail products and would have legal force to prevent retailers from increasing their prices for a period of 21 days. 
The amendments as designed give the  Chairman  of the Tribunal power to exempt a specified company, or companies included in a specified class of companies, from the requirement to notify the Tribunal of proposed price increases. This amendment would seem to overcome some of the more obvious machinery defects of the Bill, although I suspect that it is still inherently defective. The companies referred to in the amendment are those which have a turnover exceeding $20m a year. Therefore the amendment is seen essentially as an incomplete answer to the Opposition's objections to the machinery defects of the legislation. In my previous speech on the Bill I pointed out the absurdity of the requirement that individual items handled by significant companies should be individually subjected to price examination by the Tribunal. This amendment is an incomplete answer to the objections I raised in my speech at the second reading stage. The Government is obviously intent on setting up the Tribunal as soon as possible. There is no need to emphasise the fact that its terms of reference will make it almost unworkable. I believe that the basic concept of the Tribunal is quite naive and nothing more than a rubber stamping operation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The Chair has been rather tolerant about the scope of the discussion on the amendment which is before the Committee. 
Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  I will not oppose this amendment on the assumption that any improvement at all will help the measure before the House. However, it does not go nearly far enough in trying to overcome some of the grave anomalies it contains. I do not know how a large company that has a multitude of operations involving the pricing of the products it sells and possible increases in handling charges can have all such matters referred to a prices justification tribunal. It is so clumsy and cumbersome that it makes the operation almost impossible. The problems confronting the Tribunal in the practical application of its functions are probably but a faint and inadequate indication of the problems which will confront it in carrying out its terms of reference. 
However, my major misgivings relate to the discretionary power given to the  chairman  of the Tribunal in the proposed amendment. On the one hand the Tribunal is required by legislation to investigate companies in respect of price movements; on the other hand it is now given discretionary authority to exempt specified companies from the requirements of the legislation. It could be that at this stage this is the only practical way by which the Government can escape the consequences of the ill considered legislation but the legal implications are, to say the least, quite disquieting. I think it would be a useful safeguard if the Treasurer were to give his approval when it was required to allow exemption to a particular company. I do not believe that the Tribunal should have absolute discretionary power to select which companies will be examined. I believe the power ought to rest in the hands of the Treasurer as a form of safeguard against any form of prejudice or abuse of power. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of the disquiet about the Prime Minister's visit to Washington without an organised arrangement for the  President  to see him, will he reconsider his visit, or is he determined dogmatically to go to Washington irrespective of whether diplomatic arrangements have been made, which would cause enormous repercussions and undue strains between our  2  countries? I ask the Prime Minister to consider the serious consequences of his deliberately going ahead if suitable arrangements have not been made. What the President's reasons are for not extending an invitation - I do not know what they are - it would cause these complications. But, heavens above, there have been enough reasons why he should be reluctant to see a Prime Minister who heaps one insult after another on him. 
In view of the Prime Minister's previous answer to me in which he indicated that he could emulate the style of  Sir Robert  Menzies when he visits Washington let me assure him that he is deluding himself if he thinks he has the same standing and the same friendliness and warmth as  Sir Robert  Menzies. I ask the Prime Minister: Is he, content to go to Washington and hope that arrangements might then be made to see the  President  of the United States? 
I am very happy to support the amendment that the apologia be accepted. I am pleased to be able to make some remarks about the topic before the House. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made a statement extolling the virtues and achievements of the present Government. All of us who listened to him must agree that it was a statement of self praise and self adulation, which is hardly proof of the sound performance of a government. The statement was calculated to smooth over the irresponsible unco-ordinated, blustering and autocratic attitude of the present Government. This statement has not given this nation any confidence about the course which the Government is following. What the Government has done has been to create great uncertainties, fears and strains throughout all sections of the community in this great nation of ours. 
The community at large is wondering where this Government is taking us. New Australians, because of the actions of the Attorney-General and Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy),  really are in fear that we are heading towards a totalitarian police state. Our overseas friends, particularly in the United States of America, whose  President  has had one insult after another cast upon him not only by senior members of the Government but also by the Prime Minister, are wondering where its old friend and ally stands. The Public Service is in absolute confusion about the direction in which it is supposed to administer the policies of the present Government. 
Even in this House we have seen a new level of contempt set by the Prime Minister and the Ministers of his Government - the Government as a whole - in answering questions and providing information during this session of Parliament. We have tried to elicit information time and again, only to be treated in a very snide and slick manner. The Government has been pandering to the Press or to the Australian public while trying to evade answering the issues which honourable members on this side of the House have tried to bring forward. We have seen debates in this 
House limited on many occasions. The gag has probably been applied more times in this session than we have seen for the last 24 years in this Parliament. We saw the guillotine applied to the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, the Prices Justification Bill, the Pipelines Authority Bill and Seas and Submerged Lands Bill. We saw the debate on the abortion Bill limited although many honourable members on both sides of the House wanted to have a say and to express their point of view. We are not seeing democracy work as it should work, yet the Prime Minister had the audacity to enter this House and preen himself about the number of Bills that had gone through this House during this session of Parliament. Any person can get Bills through this House if he wants to use absolute authority, if he wants to ignore free expression and deny to everybody a right to state a point of view. The statement tonight by the Prime Minister was- 
I am glad honourable members on the Government side give some credit to somebody. Thank you very much. The few achievements that the Prime Minister mentioned tonight highlight the achievements which he has ignored. Many of the Government's achievements have not been very noble or honourable. He did not tell us anything about the great damage done to export industries by the Government's policy on revaluation. That was a notable and lasting achievement. 
The decision to revalue was most noticeable because of the impact that it has had on the Australian community in reallocating resources from the peoplein export industries and those who depend on export industries to people in the consuming industries. We have seen  a  period in Parliament in which the whole emphasis of policy has been directed towards 2 principal areas of Australia - the metropolitan areas of Sydney and Melbourne, where live the people who are the great voting strength behind the Labor Party. In other words, the Government is putting the whole of its efforts behind the votes that it receives in those areas and it could not give  a  damn about the rest of Australia. The 
Prime Minister did not tell us anything in his statement about the strains that have been created with our friends overseas. He tried in a foreign affairs statement to gloss over the position of Australia in regard to the United States of America. Everybody knows that a new relationship has been developed and that the Australian people are concerned and worried about it. 
The Prime Minister did not tell us anything in his statement tonight about the conflict which is developing and emerging between the Commonwealth and the State Governments of Australia. He did not mention anything about his declared attitude towards a unitary government or his belief that there ought to be one central government. He has not told us anything about the legislation that came before this Parliament during this session to give greater authority and domination to the Commonwealth in the "rea covered by the Grants Commission Act, legislation which will override State governments in providing much needed assistance to local government authorities. He did not tei! us anything about the legislation relating to Trans-Australia Airlines in respect of which 16 or 17 amendments were forced on the Government in order to moderate its effects. He has not told us about the seas and submerged lands legislation, which is going to completely submerge the influence of the State governments. He has not told us about the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation which could become a dominant Commonwealth construction and consultant authority, overriding the Commonwealth and the States. He has not told us about the housing proposals of the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  which have completely by-passed the States. The Minister has told them to go back into their corners and that the Government will do what it believes the Australian people want. These are some of the things that the Prime Minister has not told us. 
He has not told us about the uncertainty that he has created in the rural sector of the community by not agreeing to any long term proposals for the wheat industry, rural reconstruction and a whole host of other matters. He has avoided telling us about long term low interest funds for rural industries. He said yesterday that the Government would provide $20m at an interest rate of 7 per cent to 8 per cent. Is that what the the Government calls low interest? Is that what it meant in its policy speech? Is that what the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  meant when he talked about $500m at 3 per cent? I am starting to understand that we have been completely deceived by the present Government in its policy presented to the people cf Australia at the last election. The manufacturing industry has been slugged pretty hard by revaluation. It has no doubt about what will happen with export incentives and ;he investment allowance. These things have bien promised for one year and no longer,  no  doubt with the possibility of a general election in view, so this one year may carry the Government through the intermediate period. 
The Prime Minister has not told us  about  the socialistic policies of the Labor Party by which it is interfering more and more in private enterprise and business. This is leading to a lack of confidence in the private sector of the community. People - certainly overseas people - are tending not to show the same degree of confidence to want to invest ;n this country. We need this investment if we are to develop it along the lines we have bean so keen to pursue and have been so successful in pursuing over the last 20 years. He hits given us no clear indication of a firm and consistent Government economic policy to counteract one of the most serious threats to this nation at the moment. I refer to inflation. All we have seen is a staggeringly high rate of government expenditure. We have seen no resilience or resistance to counter the union demands for higher wages, shorter working hours and better conditions. No ma*.r.sr how worthy these demands may be, they are having very serious consequences on the average Australian in the form of higher costs and prices in every direction. Whilst the Government refuses to recognise the impact of these pressures on the inflationary forces there can be no curbing of the pressures that are developing in the community an J giving concern to everybody. 
I mentioned the contempt with which the Prime Minister answers questions in this Parliament. It is highlighted no better or more clearly by the words of one who is well known to us,  Mr Alan  Barnes, a writer for the 'Age'. He said: 
At times, frankly, the Prime Minister has acted like a mug lair in his disdainful handling of Opposition questions. 
We have seen a new brand of government style since this Government has been in  action. There have been irresponsible, uncoordinated statements and attitudes of Ministers. In fact, the caucus has even had to tell them how to make their decisions. We have seen Ministers arguing in public. We have seen Ministers defying the Prime Minister. The Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said: I will say whatever I like on foreign affairs policy'. We have seen absolute confusion on some of the Government's policy aspects. 
Let me refer to the Minister for Immigration. The immigration policy is up; it is down; it is stopped; it is started. We do not know what is the level of immigration in this country at the moment. We do not know what the complexion of the population will be. We have seen a new style of government in the socialist intervention in the economy. The Australian National Airlines Bill was no doubt produced to try to bring monopoly into the airlines business as well as into a number of other adjacent areas. The Pipeline Authority Bill no doubt wants to bring government involvement into this area to control energy resources. The minerals policy is creating great fears amongst those who have developed and helped to put Australia on the map. But now it is clear that the Labor Government wants to intrude and thinks it can do a better job. The style of the Government which caused the Anglican Primate of Australia last week to express fears for the future of our democratic traditions is an indication of the fears that are felt within Australia at the moment. The Government's actions are disturbing. I believe time will prove that the stewardship of this Government has led to very adverse, lasting effects on Australia, a nation which we are proud to have developed over the past 23 years. 
I should like to join with the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition in expressing the sympathy of members of the Australian Country Party who served with Dugald Munro during his 3-year period in this Parliament. When we heard the ghastly news of his tragic death we were very moved and felt indeed sorry for his family. Dugald Munro will be remembered as a likeable, attractive, friendly person who took a keen interest in the activities of this House. It seemed almost that he had found his calling in life. He loved the Parliament and participated in debates and committees, as the Leader of the Opposition mentioned. In this period of sad bereavement for his widow and family I should like to express our deepest sympathy. 
I join the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition in the very fine tribute they have paid to our late beloved colleague, the right honourable Arthur Calwell. I know that obituaries are sad affairs but they move people differently according to the closeness of their acquaintance with the deceased. There would not be a man in the House today who does not bow his head in great sorrow at the passing of a very significant parliamentarian, a former member of this House, who devoted his life to the service of his country and particularly to the institution of Parliament. Arthur Calwell was a very genuine Australian. He loved Australia and did what he thought was the very best for it. He was an unusual man in that often he made utterances that annoyed, bewildered and even staggered people. I was interested to see that in his book Be Just and Fear Not' he blamed his propensity for getting into trouble on the fact that when his Irish blood cooled down his Welsh blood warmed up. But it did not matter how critical his remarks might have been; nobody really took personal offence. There was enormous affection for Arthur Calwell. He was a genuine personality. He had real kindness. He was always thoughtful about individuals. Although he and I belonged to opposing parties, he remembered members of my family and would always make personal inquiries as to how they were. He was a man of absolute dedication. 
His departure from the Parliament really finished an era of great members of Parliament, such as Curtin, Chifley, Evatt and Wardmembers who carried great responsibilities as Ministers of the Crown during the war years. We regard him as one of those men who did a wonderful job for Australia. His post-war achievement was marked by the commencement of an immigration scheme which I believe will immortalise him. He was a man of great wit, and I think that was how he always got away with his caustic and often unthoughtful remarks. I liked the remark he made when he was leaving this Parliament. He said: 
I now intend to take the advice the psychiatrist gave to the kleptomaniac I am going to take things quietly. 
We express sorrow to his widow and to his daughter. We say with great feeling that he has immortalised himself in this House. 
I thank the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition for their very kind remarks about the late  Sir Walter  Cooper.  Sir Walter  was one of the pioneers of the Australian Country Party and had a very distinguished parliamentary record. He was associated with the Senate for a period of 40 years, a remarkable achievement for one man. Within that period for 3 years he was not a member of the Senate so that he served for a period of 37 years. He had the further distinction mentioned by the Prime Minister that he held the post of Minister for Repatriation for 1 1 years, the longest term for which that portfolio has been held in Australia. I would like to pay a special tribute to his wife. She was of enormous help and a great companion to  Sir Walter.  I express to her the deepest sympathy of the members of my Party. 

 Sir Walter Cooper was unfortunate in losing his leg in World War I, but the loss did not inhibit him in any way. He still maintained a very active sporting career although he had lost a leg. We in the Country Party will remember him for his devotion to this country and to his Party. He was a gallant gentleman who served his country well. 
-My question, which I direct to the Prime Minister, is supplementary to the question asked of him by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. When the Prime Minister was asked why he considered the ASIO raid as the biggest mistake made by his Government he replied that his Government is not accident prone. The significance of that is that the raid was deliberate, planned and accepted by the Government but was still a mistake. I ask the Prime Minister: If it was a mistake, why did he keep that opinion to himself when defending the Attorney-General in this House? Why did he ask the House for its confidence in the AttorneyGeneral? 
Will the PostmasterGeneral confirm that the papers he presented last night show that the cost of posting a country newspaper, now 1.75c for a 3 oz newspaper, will rise to 7c next year and 9c the following year, and that when such a newspaper is transferred to category C as planned the cost of posting it will be 11c? Does the Postmaster-General agree that these increases will have a very serious effect on country newspapers and that in many cases the only solution to the problem will be for the newspapers concerned to cease publication? Will he urgently review the Government's decision in these matters? 

 - Mr Speaker, on a Bill of this importance I believe that there should be a third reading debate. This is a debate 
That the question be now put. 
I claim to have been misrepresented by the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  In answering a question in the House today and venting his spleen against country people and carrying out the Australian Labor Party vendetta - 
The Postmaster-General stated that there had been no complaint in this House about the increased charges for country people. Yesterday I made it quite clear in a question I asked that I was gravely concerned about the increased charges that this Government is imposing specifically against country people, especially country newspapers. If that was not clear to him I do not know how one does make it clear to him. 
 The reintroduction of this Bill symbolises the Government's determination to continue its savage onslaught against country people by reducing the voice of country people. This attack began immediately after the last election and it reached its climax this week with the Budget. On Tuesday night I described the Budget as a vicious and vindictive attack against the country people of Australia. The vindictiveness of this Government was made completely clear yesterday by the tirade of abuse from the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  against country newspapers, country people and the Australian Country Party. The iniquitous postal charges which are to be imposed upon country people if they continue to receive their local newspapers is simply another example of the Labor Party's continuing hostility. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
When the sitting was suspended for dinner I was stating that the present Government was displaying considerable hositility towards country people. This was never more evident than in the Budget that was brought clown on Tuesday night. The Government's determination to pursue this hostile attitude is now demonstrated in the resubmission to the House of the Commonwealth Electoral Bill after its rejection by the Senate last session. Before I proceed to the Bill itself and to the Government's motives in trying to bludgeon the Opposition into accepting it, I want to dispute the claim of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  yesterday that the Government has a mandate for this legislation. The Government uses the word 'mandate' like a screeching of parrots. But where was the mandate in the swing against the Australian Labor Party in South Australia or the swing against the Labor Party in every seat in Western Australia or the swing against the Labor Party in Queensland or even the 15 per cent swing against the ALP in the Australian Capital Territory? A full mandate requires the public support of both Houses of Parliament. So, let us not have so much of this easy talk about a mandate for everything under the sun. 
The Government's motives in persisting with this legislation are clearly thrown into question when we look at the grounds on which the redistribution can be ordered. The Act makes it clear that there are 2 sets of circumstances in which redistributions are to bo held. The first is that there should be a redistribution whenever an alteration is made in the number of members of the House of Representatives to be elected for a State. The only State in which any change is proposed in the number of members is in Western Australia. Therefore, it is clear that under this first provision there is no requirement whatsoever for redistribution in any State other than in Western Australia. Another circumstance in which a redistribution should take place is whenever in one-quarter of the electorates in a State the number of electors differs from the quota by more than one-fifth either way. 
This situation does not exist in any State, so there is no ground for a redistribution under this provision. 
However, the Act does give power to the Government to order a redistribution at any time. But to resort to this part of the Act in the absence of any justification for redistributtion under the other provisions I have mentioned would represent a serious abuse of Executive power and in the absence of parliamentary approval or parliamentary changes in the Act would represent a complete contempt for the Parliament. Despite this, I have no doubt that the Minister's obsession with this legislation will lead to a resort to use of this power if the legislation is again rejected by the Parliament, as it should be and as I have no doubt it will be. 
I want to make it quite clear now that every member of the Australian Country Party in both Houses will oppose this legislation and that when the Minister proceeds to abuse the Executive power of government and asks the Governor-General to direct that a redistribution be held, they will express their opposition. Further, every member of the Country Party in both Houses will oppose the actual redistribution plans, except for Western Australia, which flow from the actions of the present Minister. We will do this because it is clear that there is no justification whatever for a redistribution except in Western Australia, under the present Act. We will do is because we believe that there is no reason to change the present Act and because we believe that the Labor Party's approach to this matter represents a denial of electoral justice. 
The provision which has existed since Federation for country electorates to have a slightly smaller enrolment than city electorates is as valid today as it was when our founding fathers wrote it into our laws 72 years ago. They understood - and the Minister understands but ignores - the difficulties of providing proper representation for people living in sparsely populated areas. Every Federal government for the past 72 years has understood and accepted this, whether they were Labor or non-Labor governments. But this Government, through its obvious hatred of country people, refuses to accept it. The founding fathers understood that if the country people were to enjoy parliamentary representation of a quality at least approaching that which city members can offer their constituents, there must be some consideration given to the physical difficulties of adequately representing large electorates. 
The Minister is asking us to stretch our credulity beyond breaking point if he wants us to believe that a person living, for example, in the electorate of Gwydir, which covers 32,250 square miles, or Kennedy, with 280,230 square miles, is able to enjoy the same quality of representation as a person living in the electorate of Grayndler, which is less than 4 square miles in area. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry. Are we going to buy back Australia for logical and sensible reasons associated with the real interests of the Australian people or merely because it sounds like a good idea? Will the Minister assure the House that the Government's admirable nationalistic zeal will not be allowed to run so wild that it will be counter productive in its impact on the development of the Australian economy and the welfare of the Australian people? Furthermore, will the Minister state how people or companies investing in the Australian Industry Development Corporation will be able to redeem their investment should they wish to do so? Will normal market value be applicable to those investments as it is with Government bonds? 
I have listened for a few moments with interest to the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin).  All I want to say is that his attitude towards dairy farmers, particularly those in the manufacturing area, is one of complete lack of sympathy, and it is an indictment on him to reveal the average income of these people and then to support the withdrawal of .the butter bounty. He knows only too well that the return to people in the manufacturing sector of the industry, those producing butter, this year will be the lowest since 1948 and that another 2 years of further reductions will take them down to a pitifully low level. These people are being, forced to reconstruct through hunger and starvation. That seems to be the policy of the Government. 
Not only is this the first Labor Budget for 24 years. It is also, of course, the first time in 24 years that the Liberal and Country Parties have discussed a Budget from the perspective of Opposition. It seems to me that the task of the Opposition is not simply to attack or harangue, but to offer criticism that is constructive and to put forward alternatives - and to give credit where credit is due. I congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on bringing down his first Budget. No matter what comments I will make later about the content and direction of the Budget, no one will deny that every Budget is a most significant document, and any man's first national Budget is for him, and the nation, of special significance. 
In many ways this is a remarkable Budget - not only in its content, but when viewed in the context of the economic circumstances to which it is supposed to relate. There is an unusually high level of liquidity in the economy. After years of torpid rural commodity prices a world commodity boom has been transmitted faithfully into supermarket price tags, and more succinctly into the consumer price index. The overall intensity of economic activity is unusually high. Yet the dominant feature of the economic landscape is towering inflation. The Treasurer has correctly pointed out that several aspects of our economic performance represent areas of substantial strength. But the areas of strength, and the buoyancy of the national accounts statistics, subside into a reduced perspective beside the dominance of inflation. 
The extent and significance of inflation should not be minimised. On a quarterly basis it is at the highest level for 21 years. It is diversifying beyond the price of food into a broad spectrum of the economy. It is at a level where it ceases to be purely an economic phenomenon and becomes a force of great social significance. It is the overriding economic concern of the Australian people - and one would think it should be the overriding consideration of this Budget. 
But the real tragedy of this Budget is that this insidious force has been not only ignored but encouraged. A series of economic palliatives have been deemed to be a substitute for effective action. Adjustment at the fringes has served instead of real action at the centre. The 25 per cent tariff reduction was not only indiscriminate but will be essentially ineffective in relation to its stated objectives. Its impact on rising prices will be limited in effect and duration; its restructuring aspects are tacked on as an afterthought. The Prices Justification Tribunal is, and will be clearly seen to be in the future, an exercise in futility, serving only to give official respectability to the price rises that are made inevitable by the neglect of this Government. 
The facts are clear,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  At the time of the highest quarterly inflation rate since 1951-52, the level of Government expenditure will increase by the greatest amount since 1951-52. At a time of an international food shortage, the food producing industries are singled out for discriminatory attack. At a time when rural investment should be encouraged after years of depressed returns, it is discouraged. At a time when inflation is accelerating, the Government stimulates rises in air fares, Postal Department charges and petrol. 
The tragedy of this Budget is not that it fails to provide enough money for the needs of the Australian people. Many of its objectives are laudable and of potential benefit to the people. The tragedy is that by sacrificing the control of inflation for social reform - and surely inflation is one of the worst of all social evils - the impact of inflation will quickly dissipate the intended effect of the Budget's programs. The objection is not so much that the Budget tries to do too much, but that it fries to do too much too soon in an economic environment calling for restraint, and leadership in restraint. In this I agree with the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  who has acknowledged that the Government is trying to move too fast. 
The Budget provides for an increase of $340m in social welfare benefits but it is not in fact a social welfare Budget because its specific benefits will be largely offset by the effects of inflation. The increases in pensions will be completely eaten up by inflation. 
It is not a defence Budget because defence spending in real terms is to be cut down. The Government, along with all other mortals in this country, cannot predict the future - yet it is willing to gamble with this nation':) security by predicting that the future will be free of the need to involve our armed Services in significant combat for the next 15 years. It is not a Budget for the industrialist, because it will encourage the inflation that distorts his business environment - and he is discouraged from investing by the removal of the investment allowance. 
It is, instead, a Budget that penalises rural industry to the extent of about S 150m a year when one of the most pressing priorities of the national government should be to encourage food production. At a time when a world food shortage is developing, the producers of food are penalised and discouraged. New-found and long-awaited rural prosperity - and perhaps transitory prosperity has been mistakenly equated with long-term wealth, and a sector of the economy, and of the Australian people, that has been through a lengthy period of depressed incomes and depressed outlooks is dealt a tremendous blow. The rural sector is carrying an enormous financial debt which will have to be serviced before it can benefit from recent seasonal conditions and improved commodity prices, the lag time before real benefits are enjoyed means that for many the benefits are still a long way off. 
This blow to rural industry happened because we now have a Government which acts without thinking. It lashes out wildly in all directions, making savage attacks on the industries that produce the financial resources on which all advances in the welfare of the Australian people must be based. The Government simply does not understand this fundamental proposition. It fires broadsides at all sectors of, industry - but primary industry in particular. It blusters and fulminates against overseas industry in Australia. It talks of buying back Australia apparently on the grounds that this is an appealing slogan. 
Surely the time has come when the Government should at least try to gain some glimmer of understanding of the basic importance of industry, and try to work with industry instead of against it. Take, for example, what has been done to primary industry in this Budget. In its determination to get at the so-called Pitt Street Farmer, the Government has cut, across the board, taxation concessions which have played such an important part in the encouragement of agricultural development in this country. 
But what are the consequences of this action? Certainly the Pitt Street farmer gets his come-uppance, but so too does the genuine, traditional farmer. He is discouraged from new investment. He will delay or decide against buying new equipment - so the machinery manufacturer and the machinery sellers in cities and country towns will be hit. This is the kind of ill-advised, impetuous action which characterises this Government, and which spreads far beyond the victims against whom the attack was originally directed. 
The rural sector has been shockingly dealt with in this Budget and I hope that when the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  and the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  get up in this debate to defend their own decisions as part of the Government they will have some pretty convincing explanations to offer to the House and to their own constituents. After all its talk about regional development, we find the Government offering the States $33m in loans, and in loans so hedged about with terms and conditions that there is a real dinger that the States will be unable to accept the money. 
But the whole approach of the Government is aimed at a siphoning-off of rural population and development into the cities. The withdrawal of support measures for primary industries, the sharp rises in telephone and postal charges which are especially damaging to rural industry and country people, the effects of the withdrawal of support for country air services and higher air fares and freight costs, the serious burden of the higher fuel costs on transport charges generally - all these things must work directly against the concept of decentralisation which we were told this Government supported. In any case, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  is frightening the life out of country towns with is aspirations for growth centres and with his very dangerous plans for the centralised control from Canberra of land development. The myth of Labor's concern for country people, despite some very persuasive and colourful presentation, finally has been laid to rest. 
This is a Budget that does little for the home seeker, who is already the victim of frightening increases in land prices and housing costs. The graduated deductibility of mortgage interest may have some superficial appeal, but its practical benefit will be offset to a considerable degree by the added stimulus to housing demand and the consequent increase in prices. This nation is already beset by a massive inflation-inspired swing of resources into real estate, provoking a tremendous housing crisis. This Budget fails to appreciate its nature and extent. It is a Budget which imposes significant burdens on the mining industry. It has effectively increased taxes by  9i  per cent for Australian copper, nickel, tin, bauxite and uranium miners. By dropping the 20 per cent tax concession, the Treasurer has effectively lifted the tax for those mines from 38 per cent to 47i per cent. For life insurance companies and their policy holders there is little joy in the Budget. The effect of the changed tax laws will be to reduce the annual bonus on policies by about 20 per cent per annum. 
The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  told us, before the Budget, that it would contain some massive changes. In fact, I think he might have put it even more succinctly than that. But, when the Budget appeared, many people found that there did not seem to be as many changes as they were expecting. But let there be no mistake. There is in the Budget a fundamental philosophical change in approach to national economic management. This change, which the Treasurer freely acknowledges, involves a redistribution of resources from the private sector to the public sector - that is, the government sector. This is a socialist Budget, and there is not the slightest doubt that further Budgets brought down by this Government will be increasingly socialist and interventionist in nature. But what is not so freely acknowledged is that resources are to be redistributed from the most productive sectors of the community to the least productive. A socialist edifice is being built on the foundations of free enterprise, but those free enterprise foundations are being subjected to the weakening effects of Government policies and attitudes. What this Government must understand, and what the Australian people must understand, is that if this nation's free enterprise foundations are weakened too much the whole structure of the community and all the Government's welfare and other programs will be endangered. 
One of the unfortunate by-products of the expansion of the public sector under Labor is the runaway expansion of the Commonwealth Public Service. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whilam)  has referred to a growth rate of 5 per cent, but the Public Service could well grow by 10 per cent this year - compared with 4 per cent last year - at a time when the total Australian work force is estimated to grow by 3i per cent. Not only are the numbers increasing, but the cost of operating the Commonwealth Public Service will increase much more, particularly in view of the staggering benefits proposed by the Minister for Labor  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  The Minister may attack the 'fat cats', but the Government is intent not only on increasing the feline reproduction rate but also on keeping them purring. At the end of June 1972 there were 876 Second Division officers. By the end of this year there will be more than 1,200, an increase of nearly SO per cent. 
The Budget papers disclose that departmental and administrative expenses this year are expected to increase by $166m or 20 per cent. The figure is certain to be more than this. It is worth emphasising that the increase in departmental running expenses will be almost as great as the increase in health expenditure, will be greater than the increase in transport and communication expenditure and, indeed, will constitute the fourth largest single growth area of Commonwealth Government expenditure in 1973-.4. The Government has provoked an inevitable inflationary tug-of-war for resources by trying to enlarge its share of the national cake. It has served clear notice that, if anyone is to exercise restraint in the fight against inflation, it will not be itself. Implicit in the Treasurer's call for a national approach against inflation is a suggestion that, while the private sector exercises restraint, the Government sees no need to do so itself. Perhaps the Treasurer is thinking as King David did when he desired another man's wife. King David made sure that the husband was allocated the first position in the attack and was, predictably, killed. The Treasurer seems to want the private sector to lead the battle against inflation and be cut down so that he can use the resources it presently utilises. There is another name for this sort of approach, and it has nothing to do with the Old Testament; it is 'socialism'. 
There is room for dispute as to the primary causes of inflation. There is room for dispute as to the origin of inflation and the degree of Commonwealth Government contribution to its acceleration. There can, however, be no dispute that the prime responsibility for its control and the responsibility for mobilising a national attack on inflation rest with the national Government. (Extension of time granted.) I thank the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  and the House for granting me an extension of time. If the principle were to be adopted that governments need not accept responsibility for developments which originate outside their direct areas of activity, the scope for evasion of responsibility would be almost unlimited. The Government must accept the primary responsibility for the control of inflation in this nation. The area most directly within its control and indicative of its intent is Commonwealth Government expenditure. I know it is easy to demand cuts in Government spending without being specific. Let me try to be specific. The advance of SI 07m to the Pipeline Authority should not be in the Budget. This is a job for free enterprise, not a socialist Government. In any case, this expenditure can hardly be justified in the present economic context, particularly when its cost-benefit basis is, to say the least, tenuous. The explosive and costly expansion of the Public Service should be curbed. The Government should realise that it is sometimes necessary to be unpopular, if unpopularity is the responsible course. 
No-one questions the good intentions of the Treasurer in rapidly expanding Government spending on welfare services, education, health care and similar matters. Everyone wants to see these things improved as quickly as possible. But what is the use of spending money at such a rapid rate that the new benefits offered are sabotaged and virtually destroyed by the inflation stimulated by excessive government spending? This is the problem that dogs all governments, but it will never be solved by governments which substitute the pursuit of popularity or the attainment of party political ideals for economic responsibility. The present Government is a government of gimmick. It is also a government of almost unbelievable inconsistency. It calls for restraint, but supported an $11.50 flat rate increase in the national wage, and supports a 35-hour week. It talks about the benefits of a government allied to the trade union movement, but industrial unrest this year is considerably up on last year's level. It recognises the strain on resources in the economy, but proposes greatly to expand its own work force and spending at a time of labour shortage. What we are seeing in this country today is the classic technique of the socialist. A situation of severe inflation is allowed to develop. Opportunities for fiscal responsibility are passed up as part of a deliberate policy of fostering inflation by default. In this way an atmosphere is created which establishes an ideal breeding ground for the introduction of the socialist approach to economic management, and that is an approach based on controls. 
On Tuesday night the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  spoke of the need, as he saw it, for a short-term prices and wages freeze as a kind of shock tactic to drive home to the Australian community the seriousness of the situation we face. All of us are well aware that such a measure could be only a short-term one, designed to achieve immediate objectives. In fact, I have serious doubts as to even the short-term success of such action. Freezes are no substitute for continuing responsibility in economic management. Yet the situation is so serious, and holds out such frightening prospects, that we have to consider radical action. But what concerns most of us is that, under this Government, policies of control and restriction and straight-jacketing will not be used as temporary measures, but will become established, entrenched policies - policies which give effect to the political philosophy of the Government. The suggestion by the Leader of the Opposition has been described by the Treasurer as being 'supreme blasphemy'. But let us look at the circumstances in which the Leader of the Opposition made his suggestion. We have inflation increasing at a frightening rate. The position is worse than it ever was during those years when the Leader of the Opposition - and myself and many others - rejected the thought of any kind of price and wage control in what should be a flourishing free enterprise economy. Now we have an entirely new situation, and if we are to avoid serious harm to the economy, and to the whole Australian community, then something effective has to be done. 
The idea of controls is abhorrent to me, as it is to anyone dedicated to the free enterprise philosophy. I have very real doubts about their effectiveness anyway, even though I agree that there is a need for some kind of action that will shock people into an awareness of the mess this country is going to get into if the Government continues to run away from its responsibility. Whatever we might think of controls and freezes or anything else, one thing is very clear; the Opposition is at least prepared to grapple with this problem. The Government is not. So I would hope that the Treasurer might devote a little less time to trying to score easy political points off people who, unlike himself and the Government, are trying to tackle this country's most serious problem. I hope he will spend a little less time telling us, as he so frequently does, that inflation did not begin at midnight on 2 
December last year, and tell us what he is going to do about the rapidly worsening situation. Of course inflation did not begin last December. We know that. What we do not know, and see not the slightest indication of, is when this Government is going to start acting like a Government that understands where its responsibility lies. 
This Budget imposes further strains on the nation's economic capabilities at a time when resources are already fully utilised. (Honourable members interjecting) 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! I suggest to honourable members of the Country Party that if they want to hear their Leader speak they should remain silent and not converse. 
The Budget is a socialist blueprint both in the direction in which it is taking us, and in its immediate objective of redirecting private resources to the government sector. The Prime Minister speaks with pride of being a socialist Prime Minister, and his Government has its eyes set on the destination of socialism, but 1 fear the journey will be hazardous. It normally could be expected that in the absence of fiscal responsibility, the monetary policy aftermath would be very severe. As a result of this Budget we normally should expect a Treasury inspired policy of tighter money and higher interest rates. If that were to happen it would put into a new perspective the budgetary objectives of helping home-seekers and various other people in the community. But I fear that even this unpalatable alternative may not eventuate. This Budget may well be the forerunner of government imposed controls to rectify a deteriorating economic condition. 
It is not idle speculation when I predict that inflation - already running at an annual rate of 13 per cent - could well reach an annual rate of 20 per cent by the end of the year. If that happens then we must fear not only for the economic health of this nation, but also for its social stability. That sort of condition carries with it the breakdown of our traditional wage-fixation procedures and a general threat of social and economic anarchy. What I fear is that the build-up of these forces may well provide the justification for this socialist government to employ the tools of socialism - direct controls. That sort of approach, given the nature of this Government, would be the ultimate political result of unchecked inflation. The real significance of this Budget is to be found in the attitude of mind it embodies and, perhaps more significantly, in the consequences to which it could lead. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. Is it true that within the next few days the Government will announce a major Commonwealth redevelopment and construction program at Parramatta? Is this announcement, on the eve of the Parramatta by-election, designed to buy back support from the people of west Sydney after the gross blunder of the Government's decision to put an airport at Galston? In view of soaring inflation which is now gripping the economy, is not such a decision to spend more public funds on vote catching schemes sheer irresponsibility? 
I ask the Treasurer: Is it a fact that Australia's primary producers as a result of several years of bad seasons and low world market prices are in debt to a record extent of more than $2,000m? Because more than half of this money is owed to trading banks and because of the Labor Party's view as stated in the publication 'Rural - Its Time': 
There  is  ample proof to show that high interest rates are imposing severe burdens on export rural industries just as they are on other sections of the community such as young house owners. 
I ask the Treasurer: Can we expect from the Government the same enforced solicitude for debt burdened primary producers as we are told we can now expect to see for home buyers? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. He will know that, should price control be introduced in Australia, it will be necessary also to bring in controls over the export of goods for which there is a high demand, such as meat, thus raising the possibility that these goods m'ay be diverted to more attractive markets in other countries. Further, is it the intention of the Government also to control the prices of imported goods? Also, is it the intention of the Government to control the prices of fruit and vegetables? If so, will there be a minimum price for these products, the price of which fluctuates so greatly? Will the Prime Minister explain to the House how he intends to administer these forms of control which will he a necessary adjunct to general price control? 
I wish to move an amendment to clause 5 of the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill 1973. I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 
The First Schedule to the Principal Act is repealed and the following Schedule substituted:- 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and it is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Wakefield. The Prime Minister in referring to the opportunities for asking questions is avoiding the basic issue which the honourable member for Wakefield raised. At the commencement of his Press conferences the Prime Minister reads out a long list of Government decisions. Two decisions were made in the last period of Parliament. One related to the Australian Industry Development Corporation, legislation on which will be debated in this 'House, and the other related to policies concerning Australian car manufacturing. The Prime Minister avoided bringing these matters before the Parliament. Again I ask him whether he will do the Parliament the courtesy of seeing that these matters are announced in Parliament before they are announced to the Press so that honourable members will have a chance to ask questions before members of the Press do so. 
 The Opposition is very concerned about the increases in charges provided for in this Bill and the related Bills which are being debated at the same time. We are concerned not simply because there are rises - we accept that there must be increases from time to time - but because of the extent of the rises and the way they have been presented to the Parliament. The increases have been presented to the public in a way that has hidden the full impact of what is proposed. We are concerned also about the very severe impact of the increased charges as they relate specifically to country people and those who belong to various community groups in all parts of Australia. Most people have been led to believe,  Mr Speaker,  that there has been no increase in the cost of posting a letter. It is still 7c. Well, so it is but that is not the whole story by any means. For 7c you will be able to post a letter so long as it weighs no more than 20 grams - that is, so long as it weighs 30 per cent less than the maximum weight previously allowed. The cost today of posting a letter weighing say, 21 grams is 7c. When the new charges come into effect that same letter will cost 15c to post - that is, if it weighs more than 20 grams. That is the kind of thing that has not been made clear to the public.  Mr Speaker,  so that these and associated matters will be more clearly understood I ask for leave to have incorporated in Hansard tables setting out the effect of the proposed increases on letters, parcels, householder' service, periodicals - which include newspapers - and books. 
The material is factual. There are no politics in it. 
It is my responsibility if the percentages are wrong. 
This material is fairly important to the rest of my speech. 
That is true but I have to accept the responsibility if the percentages are incorrect. I am asking that it be incorporated. It is the normal custom in the House to have- 
With all due respect I gave it to you before. There are 3 pages of tables and if it has to be checked I am afraid that it will take longer to get an answer than it will take to deliver my speech. It is not usual for this sort of procrastination to occur when one is asking to table nothing more than statistics without related quotes or political matter. 
Yes but I am afraid that if I refer to it you probably then will not want to include it. I think it is only right for Hansard to know at this point- 
If what is in order? 
I think that a precedent has been created for a person who is leading for the Opposition. You are stifling- 
You are, with all due respect. If these figures have to be checked, it is impossible for someone to do the mathematics of it in a few minutes unless he has a computer. In all the time I was a Minister sitting at the table and responsible for giving leave to incorporate documents in Hansard, 1 never once refused leave to the Labor opposition. I feel that this is an imposition on the rights of the Opposition. 
You are by refusing me leave to have the tables incorporated in Hansard in the normal process. 
I am not frightened of anything; what is the Minister frightened of? 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker,  but I think the point is well made that the Government will not allow to be incorporated a document which consists of nothing more than statistics. 
So that these and  associated  matters will be more clearly understood I have asked for leave to have these tables incorporated in Hansard, and I hope that when leave is granted the tables will be placed at the appropriate position in the Han sard record. I believe the Acting Leader of the House is taking an unprecedented step by not allowing something which is straightforward and simple to be incorporated in Hansard. Anyone who studies these tables will see that, no matter what the Postmaster-General might say about international standards and so on, the change to the metric system has been used by the Government really to sock the community. The Government is not concerned to avoid profiting from the change to the metric system, which it asks everyone else in the community to avoid. One wonders too why the Government has not felt it necessary to await the outcome of the inquiry into the operations of the Post Office before embarking on these very important and costly changes. This is just another example of this Government's disregard for important principles. It has set up commissions, tribunals and committees and yet it makes its own decisions. The Government pleases itself. 
There are many aspects of this Bill which cause the Opposition serious concern and which should be discussed at length, but it is possible to deal with only the most serious matter. Certainly it is the most serious from the point of view of the Country Party and all people living outside of the metropolises. I refer to the extremely big increases proposed in bulk postage rates. Letter rates will go up by between 25 per cent and 60 per cent and other postage rates by an average of 30 per cent, but the bulk postage rate, involving newpapers, will increase by more than 500 per cent. Because of our concern over this matter I intend to move an amendment in the Committee stage. This amendment will provide for bulk postage charges for newspapers and periodicals to be maintained at their present levels and for the existing categories into which newspapers and periodicals are placed for postal charge purposes to be maintained. Section 29 of the existing Acts deals not only with newspapers and periodicals but also with educational, technical and other publications which, although costly to the PostmasterGeneral's Department, are fundamental to giving all Australians equal opportunities and access to information. 
The Government's attitude to postage rates on newspapers, especially country newspapers, underlines the Labor Party's consistent lack of sympathy for and understanding of the conditions under which country people live. 
For most Labor members of this House, and for the vast majority of their constituents, a daily newspaper is a very easy thing to get hold of. Either it is thrown over the front fence early in the morning, or bought from a paperseller in the street or at a handy newsagency. For the country dweller, the daily paper, or a bi-weekly or tri-weekly paper, is delivered some time during the morning, if the reader is lucky - and then it is delivered only to a cream-box or roadside gate, and has to be collected from there. Otherwise it comes later in the day or often the next day, or whenever there is some means of delivering it. 
A large number of country readers depend on the Post Office for the delivery of their newpaper - either on the day it is published, or on the following or later days. This simple example of just one of the differences between city and country living demonstrates a common, everyday situation which Labor members utterly fail to appreciate. The whole attitude of the Labor Party to people, living outside of capital cities, illustrated throughout this year by a growing list of antagonistic decisions and actions - almost daily it seems - is once again made clear by the Government's decision to increase bulk postage rates by a staggering amount. The Government's motives are not to be found solely in the economics of the Post Office. 
The Postmaster-General let the cat out of the mailbag when he told me in answer to a question recently that rural newspapers should pay the same as the general public, otherwise the public would be asked to subsidise owners of small industries who obviously vote for the country party. That was a despicable statement from a responsible Minister of the Crown. This is typical of the blatantly political approach of a Government whose Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  for example, last week went to great lengths to make it abundantly clear that the decision to site an airport at Galston was made on political grounds. He did not try to hide this fact; he almost boasted that it was a political decision. And the Postmaster-General has made no secret of the fact that the decision to bring about these savage increases in postal rates for newspapers also was made to some extent on political grounds. 
 The Minister's answer to the question said it. 
 The Minister said he believed that people who voted for and supported the Country Party should not get concessional rates. The unfortunate part of it is that in its haste to vent its vindictiveness against country people, the Government has also hurt many other people. Church groups who depend on their own newpaper to keep in touch with their members, and to put forward their views on important national issues, also will be penalised. For some, it will be impossible to carry on publishing a newspaper. 
But there has been a strong reaction too from trade union groups. They need to keep in touch with their members and put thenpoints of view, but this Government is doing something that will virtually destroy many of these small publications. This is a most dangerous prospect. 
There is more need today than ever before for strong, independent voices putting their views. We have a socialist Government determined to change this nation in ways that we will live to regret. Country people in particular are almost under siege by an aggressive, oppressive Government. There must be opportunities for counter points of view to be put. 
The Government is spending vast amounts of money on its own propaganda operations, with an army of people, new publications and intensive use of the media to get its story across to the mass of the people who live in Australia's capital cities. The other side of the story must be told. How many people are affected by this vicious Government action? 
In country areas alone there are 339 local newspapers. Rather there were 339 until recently. It is quite likely that the number has dropped as the process of closures and takeovers continues because some rural papers are unable to cope with continually rising costs. We can certainly expect to see further rapid changes as a result of these new increased postal rates. The average weekly circulation of all these papers, in total, is more than 5 million. 
These newspapers are not simply something to skim through on a suburban train and then drop into a rubbish can, or to read in the bus on the way home from work to see what the latest sensation is. The country newspaper is a vital part of the lifeblood of the country community. It is one of the few ways in which many communities can even be maintained as communities. A newspaper in a way forms part of the heart and soul of a small community. It is the historical record of personalities and events. It is a vital element in the maintenance of that community spirit which is one of the great attributes of these communities. 
A newspaper helps to keep people in touch with each other, even though they might never meet for long periods. It tells them not only of events that fall into the category of news but of important things relating to their daily lives and work, such as market reports and indications of coming events such as agricultural field days and community meetings. All the events and happenings of country areas are maintained in the local newspapers. The local paper keeps people informed on the activities of many local organisations, such as local government and service organisations. This is often the only way they can be informed. In fact, in many cases local government and other levels of government are required to publish information about certain proposals for changes in regulations or by-laws. 
In a city it is easy to get on the phone, to talk to people and to tell them about meetings and other activities. But in the country that costs too much, so one must depend on the local paper much more than one does in the metropolitan areas.. But the Labor Party just would not understand that. All the PostmasterGeneral can see, apparently, is a subsidy being paid, as he said recently, to a country industry, which he claims supports the Country Party. He is blind to the obvious fact that the benefits of these postal concessions do not go to the newspaper owners; the benefits go to the people who buy the paper and who have to pay postage on it. In his efforts to attack the Country Party he is really attacking and hurting all people who live in country areas, and others belonging to various groups of the kinds I have mentioned. 
The savagery of the increases is clear from the following outline of what is proposed on bulk postage rates. From 1 October this year the existing basic rate of 7c per 12 oz., with a minimum charge of He per article, will rise to 7c per 300 grams. That is 40 grams less for the same amount of money. The He mini mum per article will apply for the time being. But then the Postmaster-General is really going to get stuck into the newspapers. On 1 March next year newspapers will be taken out of category A and placed into category B. This is when the trouble will really start. Take a 3 oz paper, which is about the average weight of a country newspaper. It is not small; it is not large like a newspaper which serves a metropolitan area. It weighs about 84.9 grams. At present it costs 1.75c to post it. In March next year it will cost, not 1.75c, but 7c - a rise of 300 per cent. Talk about inflation. There is no inflation as great as this anywhere in the country. Yet this is arbitrarily being imposed by the Government. Perhaps we do need price fixing when a government can carry out arbitrary action such as this. Then in March 1975 that same 3 oz. newspaper will cost 9c to post, and then in October 1976 it will cost 11c. That is assuming, of course, that the Postmaster-General does not increase postage charges generally in the meantime - and no doubt he will. But even so, these increases represent a rise of 528 per cent in the cost of posting a paper between 1973 and 1975. I suppose the PostmasterGeneral is spreading the rises over this period to give many country newspapers - and other publications - a chance to close down gradually instead of suddenly. 
Another way of demonstrating the savagery of these rises is that you can now bulk post six 2-oz newspapers for 9c. In 1975 we will be able to bulk post only one newspaper for that price. The present postage bill for the 26 regional dailies represented by regional dailies of Australia is $160,000. It might not sound very much but for these small newspapers it is a lot of money. This figure will jump to $640,000 by March next year - and of course that is only the beginning. One newspaper at present is paying $9,000 a year in bulk postage. This will become $33,000 a year after March next year. How many small country newspapers can sustain this increase or expect their subscribers to pay that increased charge? The people who buy and read this newspaper of course will have to pay. 
Of course, many papers weigh more than the 3 ounces I mentioned earlier, so that the postage costs will be even more than the figures I quoted. But even on those figures, a newspaper costing a subscriber 8c will cost 15c by post - that is if people kept buying it, which seems to be very doubtful. How would people in Sydney or Melbourne like to be told that instead of paying 8c for their newspaper they will now have to pay 15c for it? Circulations will fall, and the economics of many newspapers - already difficult - will be even harder. 
Even in a country like Australia, which we have always thought of as a free-enterprise society - although that is rapidly changing - there are certain responsibilities resting on the government. Even in a free-enterprise society, there are certain vital national tasks which can be properly coped with only by the Government. One of them is communications. It is a responsibility of the Post Office to provide communications for the people of this nation- no matter where they live. We all know - and the Postmaster-General has told us often enough - that it is expensive to provide communications in remote areas. But that is a situation we have to accept. 
There is no reason why the Post Office should be run as a normal commercial enterprise in the profit-making sense. The Post Office is an instrument of national development - it is a national sevice. It is part of the infrastructure of development and the daily living which the Government has a responsibility to provide to all Australian people. This Government will not accept that responsibility. I believe that the provision of adequate communications - the newspaper is among the most important forms of communication for country people - is a matter in which the Government has a responsibility to be involved by way of the contribution it makes towards solving the problems and meeting the costs of the distribution of newspapers and other articles to their readers. Irrespective of whether they be technical, educational or cultural publications, people have a right to be able to get them at a reasonably modest cost, just as anybody can get them in a capital city. 
I repeat that there is no need for this contribution by the Government to communications to be made on a strictly economic basis. If a strict economic return were to be the criterion for government action there would be few roads in the country areas of Australia, there would be no railways, there would no extension of power lines into rural areas, there would be a limited number of airports and there certainly would be no telephones. A government which prides itself on its desire to remove all divisions from Australian society, laughable as the evidence of that desire may be, certainly has a responsibility to ensure that country people are not relegated to the position of second rate citizens in this nation. The clear indication of the Australian Labor Party to do that has become very obvious in many ways. The Australian Country Party is especially determined to fight the attack which is being made by Labor upon non-metropolitan people by the presentation of this legislation. In its efforts to strike at these people - efforts which have been very effective so far - the Government is also showing us that all its talk about decentralisation is just so much eyewash. Communications - a fundamental factor in decentralisation - are being made so expensive by the Government that industry will be very loath to move to country areas and pay the costs that will be involved. 
We have had some vague references by the Postmaster-General to concessional communication rates for growth centres. We will believe them when we see them. What about the people - by far the great majority - who do not live or who will not be living in growth centres? Are they to get any benefits? That does not appear to be so. The list of actions by the Government aimed at getting at country people is apparently endless. This legislation is just another indication of the Government's desires in that respect. The Opposition regards the subject of the postage rates charged in respect of the newspapers and many other types of publications that are circulated in country areas as being so important that it will be moving an amendment to this Bill and it will oppose the passage of this legislation throughout all stages. Before resuming my seat,  Mr Speaker,  could I get some indication from the Postmaster-General as to whether the material I sought to incorporate in Hansard earlier is now acceptable for incorporation. 
Who has amended it? Has the Postmaster-General amended it? 
I do not see where any amendments have been made. 

<graphic href="085131197309174_54_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="085131197309174_55_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="085131197309174_56_5.jpg"></graphic>

It is a sad sight when supporters of the Government, particularly those coming from rural areas do not have the intestinal fortitude to be able to rise and say their piece on behalf of these organisations to which I have referred. I look around the chamber and I see the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton),  the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen),  the honourable member for Patterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  all prepared to sit back and be lackeys to their own party philosophies. They seem to want to see that independent expression in their areas is suppressed completely. I hear an honourable member ask: 'Who owns the newspapers?' I think that they are owned by a multitude of people throughout country areas. The insinuation that those people are supporters of the Country Party and that that is the reason why the Government has throttled the newspapers and put them out of business is a real indictment upon the Government and the Labor Party. That is exactly what the PostmasterGeneral has said. 
I hear the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  trying to interject. It is interesting to hear him say that we are squaling because our form of media will be put out of business. This is yet another indication that this is quite deliberate. It is an arbitrary decision which is discretionary and aimed against a section of the media and against country people. It is quite clear that this Government does not care one iota about country people and is wanting to reduce free expression in the country as much as possible. 
Until the Government can come forward with some reasonable proposal for increasing charges in these areas, the present proposals will be opposed by the Opposition in both Houses of Parliament. This Bill represents a vicious, arbitrary attack on a section of the media and a section of the community. It is for these reasons that I have moved this amendment to clause 5 of the Bill reinstating the present rates. I ask that the Government reconsider its attitude and be a little more reasonable and humane in the interest's of people who are Australians, just like any other members of the community, and who have the right of access to educational, technical or cultural facilities and newspapers in order that they can be as well informed as other people and will not have to rely entirely upon the mass media of the Australian Broadcasting Commission for their information. 
I second the motion. The motion before the Chair seeks to suspend so much of the Standing Orders as would enable the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  to speak on the motion for the third reading of this Bill. The reason he wants to speak is that he was gagged in the Committee stage. He had no chance to reply to the comments of the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who refused to answer the charges and allegations made during the course of the second reading debate which was very limited. Many honourable members feel extremely strongly about this issue and they were deprived of the opportunity to speak. What did the PostmasterGeneral do? He got up and took advantage of the Committee stage to answer some of those charges. In the course of doing so he committed a major breach of parliamentary and Cabinet principle by quoting from a submission of a previous government. 
This is the first time I have known a government to do this. I am not concerned about the content of the document. The content does not worry me. For a person so flagrantly to pick up a Cabinet document and then try to duck presenting it by saying that it was not a Cabinet document when in reality it was a copy of a Cabinet submission is the height of arrogance and an abuse of parliamentary privilege. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker;  I will heed your ruling. It was necessary to make that point. That is what engendered very strong feeling in my colleague, the honourable member for Gippsland, who no doubt wanted to speak on that matter. He also wanted to speak about the excuse that the Postmaster-General used when he was referring to a newspaper, the cost of which, he said, was going to increase by only 1.75c. Well, that was 100 per cent. This really was deceiving the Parliament and the public about what the true increase would be. It is true that that would be the increase next year and this in itself is a special concession to a trade union but by 1976- 

 - Sir, I think this is very relevant to the reason for moving for the suspension of Standing Orders. It is because of this sort of allegation made by the PostmasterGeneral that the honourable member for Gippsland and other honourable members want to speak on the motion for the third reading. I know it is not normal protocol in this Parliament to speak at the third reading stage, but when an issue comes before this Parliament- 
I said that the feelings of honourable members on this side of the House were very strong on this issue as a whole because we see in this issue a sinister move to gag free expression by newspapers and periodicals in this country, which of course is part of the philosophy of the socialists who would try to limit the number of organisations which can expose and question the practices in which they are participating. So I believe that my colleague, the honourable member for Gippsland, has every right, as has every honourable member in this House, to speak at the third reading stage. This is an all important issue. When the rate of postage on a trade union newspaper can increase by 528 per cent one would think that members of the Labor Party would be a little concerned, but they are like mutes saying nothing and allowing their own organisations to be persecuted along with country people. 
 After listening to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  it is quite obvious that this is not just a debate about price control, inflation or a referendum. It is a debate about a fundamental change in national economic policy. It is a debate about a proposal to embark on a new course for Australia. It is a debate about the intention of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to take this nation along a new philosophical path - a path that will lead to the substitution of rigid controls for responsible and competent economic management. It is a course that is fraught with danger. The tragedy is that the Australian people might be so taken in by the Prime Minister's attractive wrapping of the parcel that they will not bother to have a good look at what is inside. 
There is not the slightest doubt that the Prime Minister is using inflation, and the hurt it is causing to the Australian people, to support his plans to acquire greater powers to control and regulate the economy, industry and business. The longer inflation is allowed to run without any real effort to check it - arid that is exactly what is happening - the more convinced I am that this inaction is part of the Government's deliberate strategy of building up an atmosphere of fear about inflation so that the people will give the powers it wants. Price control is an attractive product to sell. It appeals to people. It plays on their belief, enthusiastically fostered by the Australian Labor Party, that it is the big bad businessmen and manufacturers who are to blame for inflation. It ignores the realities of economic life. It ignores the importance of a growing economy founded on strong and productive industry. Price control is presented to the people as an easy, almost instant answer to inflation, as a right which the Government should have. Anyone who opposes it will be characterised by the Prime Minister almost as un-Australian; as being against control of inflation; as being insensible to the harm and the hurt inflation is doing to so many people. 
The Prime Minister will ignore the most important facts about price control - the fact that it will not control inflation, and never has wherever it has been tried. He will ignore the fact that it would be a dangerous thing to hand over such strong powers to a government of the political and economic philosophies of his, with no guarantee as to how it will use those powers. The Prime Minister will tell us what terrible fellows the State Premiers are; how they have refused to co-operate with his government in its great humanitarian desire to control inflation in the interests of the Australian people. He will ignore the fact that the Premiers have tried over and over again to get the Prime Minister to embark, with their co-operation, on a comprehensive antiinflationary program - the only kind of program that holds out any hope of controlling inflation. He will ignore the constructive proposals put forward by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and which have my support. A temporary price and wage freeze, as part of a complete approach, and as doubtful as I am of its long-term effectiveness in achieving any real restraint of prices and wages, does have the potential to act as an economic circuit-breaker, as the -Leader of the Opposition has described it. The inflation situation has become so bad under this Government that we are forced to consider any move which has some prospect of helping the situation. But permanent price control certainly does not come into this category. 
The Prime Minister said that this Bill gives the people of Australia the chance to say that they believe the Australian Parliament should have reasonable powers to ensure the best possible economic management of the nation. When he says the 'Australian Parliament' he means of course the Australian Government, which controls the Parliament. And the simple fact is that the Australian Government does have reasonable powers to ensure the 'best possible economic management of this nation, otherwise we would not have a record for the last 23 years with which few other countries could compare. It already has those powers, but it refuses to use them. The Government has within its control every power it needs to act immediately and firmly to reduce the rate of inflation, yet it will not act. This is one of the important facts the Prime Minister will not talk about. Any Prime Minister who can claim - as the Prime Minister did yesterday - that the recent Budget provided the main defence against inflation, is capable of saying anything. I hope the Australian people, whom the Prime Minister is asking to give him very strong powers, will weigh very carefully the credibility of his claim that the Budget, more than anything else, set up excellent defences against inflation. The Budget did nothing of the sort. It did exactly the opposite. It is the Prime Minister's and the Government's failure to see this, and their general economic incompetence, that has led us into this whole inflationary mess, and which is going to get us deeper and deeper into an economic quagmire if the people are persuaded to give the Prime Minister the powers he wants. 
The Prime Minister asked the Opposition to show its sincerity by supporting this referendum.  Mr Speaker,  I would be guilty of the greatest hypocrisy if I supported this referendum. How could I support this proposal knowing, as I do, and as the Prime Minister knows, that price control does not work in controlling inflation; it has never worked wherever it's been tried? How could I support this proposal knowing as I do, that there is simply no need for the Commonwealth to take these powers to itself; knowing that the States are ready and willing - despite what the Prime Minister might say - to co-operate with the Federal Government in a comprehensive attack on inflation - the only kind of attack^ as I said before, that has any chance of succeeding? How could I support this proposal knowing, as I do, that it forms part of this socialist Government's strategy of taking an increasingly firm grip on the activities of the Australian people at all levels? How could I support such an all-embracing power being given to the central government, knowing that it will make the authority of the States impotent in such wide areas of their present responsibility? Meaningful federalism is being deliberately challenged. The loss of this authority with the broad interpretation that can be applied to 'prices' will hasten the end of federalism as we know it. 
A few days ago, when the Prime Minister pulled a rabbit out of the hat in the form of  Mr Hawke's  famous assurance on wage demand moderation by the unions, I asked what right  Mr Hawke  had to make such a promise. 
I asked the Australian people to look very carefully at the proposition that they were being asked to change their nation's Constitution, with one of the grounds advanced by the Prime Minister in support of this proposition being  Mr Hawke's  promise on wage restraint. Well, that manoeuvre by the Prime Minister has fallen to pieces. Last night, on television, we had the secretary of one of the big Amalgamated Metalworkers' Union,  Mr 
Halfpenny, saying that there was not the slightest chance that his union would go soft on wages demands. Last night too  Mr Hawke  really blew the Prime Minister's cover by saying that he just would not give this kind of assurance. Of course he cannot. The Prime Minister knows he cannot. He fought to explain pretty quickly to the Australian people why he tried to pull the wool over their eyes in the way in which he did. I give  Mr Hawke  credit for his frankness. I cannot give the same credit to the Prime Minister. I repeat,  Mr Speaker:  It would be the height of hypocrisy for me to support this proposal. Of course it might be popular. It does have a superficial appeal. No doubt the Prime Minister will sell it in such a way that the people might believe all the things he claims for it. But the Australian people will be making a grave mistake if they give the Government this power. 
Now, having been shot down in flames by  Mr Hawke,  the Prime Minister is trying another conjuring trick by promising to control the price of land. How is he going to do that? Any school child knows that land is expensive because not enough of it is on the market. It is dear because there is a tremendous demand, and the supply is not keeping up with that demand. The Prime Minister is going to ignore this situation completely. He is going to control the price of land. In so doing he is going to establish the classic circumstances for a black market. Controlling the price of land will not put more land on the market. It will not reduce the demand for land. Price control will simply tend to dry up the supply of land, making the position far worse than it is now. It is the Prime Minister's inability to grasp these simple economic principles that underline the danger of giving him the kind of power that he wants. The only way in which land prices might be controlled is for the Government to acquire all the land itself and then dispose of it to the people. This could be exactly what this socialist Prime Minister has in mind. But can you imagine,  Mr Speaker,  the mass of restrictions and complications and tangles that this sort of thing would lead us into? Can you imagine the black market operations that would begin? 
The Prime Minister is offering the Australian people a pig in a poke. The Bill, he says, is aimed at giving the Australian people a chance to say whether the Government should have power to control prices. What prices? The Prime Minister has not given us the slightest indication. Yesterday I asked him whether he was going to control the price of fruit and vegetables. He said food - except meat - did not contribute to inflation. So I take it from that reply that he is not going to control the price of fruit and vegetables and other foods. But last night the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  told us on television that the Government was going to control every item that makes up the daily cost of living of the family. He says fruit and vegetable prices will be controlled! Whom do we believe? Do the Prime Minister and the Minister for Labour, have the foggiest idea what they are talking about. 
I asked the Prime Minister yesterday whether he was going to take the logical supplementary step - in fact the essential supplementary action to price control - and control the price of imported goods and impose export controls. I still do not know what he is going to do, and neither does he. But what is much more important is that neither do the Australian people have the slightest clue as to what the Prime Minister intends to do with the powers he is asking us to give him. It was an incredibly elementary second reading speech on such an important issue. Of course, he did not explain a single thing. What is he going to do about goods in strong world demand, like minerals and meat? What is he going to do about imports? Imports and unprocessed primary products were excluded from the 1971 freeze in the United States because it is impossible to cope with the administrative nightmare they represent. Here is another thing: The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  appointed a Prices Controller in the Australian Capital Territory. He told the controller to freeze the price of petrol so that the petrol companies could not pass on the 5c excise increase this antiinflation Government imposed. The Controller made a detailed study of the industry and said it was only fair and reasonable that the industry be allowed to pass on the extra cost. The Minister rejected the Controller's recommendations: That is the way in which a socialist, control-happy Government acts. It will not accept the advice of its own authorities. How can there be any certainty about the way general price control would be administered by this kind of government? 
Why do I say price control is bad? It does not work to control inflation; we all know that. But it is positively bad for a number of reasons. I know it is almost impossible for a Labor man to understand this, but it is necessary for profits to be earned by manufacturers, by small businessmen, by taxi drivers, by farmers and so on. I know that profit is a dirty word to the Labor Party. But let it not forget that it is profit that will finance all its geat schemes for the welfare of the Australian people. Basically the Government does not produce anything. All it does is to spend the money that industry produces. So, what happens when prices are controlled, and the prospect of reasonable profits is damaged - if not destroyed? We find that people stop making the articles that are subject to unfair price control. Why make them if they cannot be sold at a reasonable profit? Why invest in new plant or new factories to produce things if we cannot sell them and earn the profits we must have to pay for the investment - to pay the wages of the employees? Any business facing this situation must consider whether it is to keep on producing, and even whether it can keep on its employees. If we have price control bringing about this kind of situation, as it inevitably does, we must also have rationing. Then black markets develop. Even in wartime, when there is patriotic fervour and loyalty, black markets develop as shortages of goods develop. Price control puts the market in a straight jacket. If there is price control there must also be direction of resources. All the normal forces of the market - competition, supply and demand - are bottled up. Tremendous pressure builds up as these pentup forces accumulate. Sooner or later the explosion comes. It cannot be avoided. 
Prices control,  Mr Speaker,  breaks the economic thermometer. Prices, so the Prime Minister tells us, are an indicator of inflation. But what happens when prices are controlled? Inflation certainly does not stop. It never has where prices control has been used. Inflation does not stop, but its extent is hidden by prices control. The thermometer is broken; we cannot read the economic temperature. Because prices do not seem to be rising the nation is lulled into believing that inflation has stopped, or slowed down. Open inflation is a deadly thing. Repressed inflation and the inequities it produces and the damage it does are far worse. Yet that is what die Prime Minister is asking the Australian people to agree to in giving him power to control prices while he refuses to do the things already open to him to control inflation. 
This whole exercise is a device by the Prime Minister to cover up his inability to handle his job. It is an attempt to deceive the Australian people into giving dangerous powers to the Labor Government - thereby playing right into the Government's hands. The Australian people will fall for the Prime Minister's ploy at their peril. What they should be doing is not giving the Prime Minister an alibi for his and his Government's economic incompetence, but insisting that he do the job they thought they were electing him to do. Why is the Prime Minister seeking price control powers? Simply because he wants to cover up the shocking mess he is making of managing the Australian economy. It will be a tragedy if the Australian people fall for his confidence trick. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he is aware that unemployment in metropolitan areas totals 38,000, that this rate is comparable with last year's high level despite the much heralded reduction in national unemployment, that it is equal to the 19S2 figure and is the highest for the last 5 years. In view of the serious and harsh economic measures taken this year and in the Budget against country people and country industries, which will no doubt further aggravate the employment situation, has the Government made a decision yet on a continuation of the rural unemployment scheme? The Prime Minister will be aware that he has publicly said that a decision will be made on this matter before the end of this month and that he will be conferring with the Premiers. 
The States Grants (Petroleum Products) Bill involves a great national princiiple - the principle of giving all Australians equal opportunity to be able to purchase the most important energy product for industry and to enable the fulfilment of every person's normal day. I refer to the price of petrol that is paid across the nation. The Country Party and the Opposition do not intend to oppose the Bill, for the simple reason that the policy intent of the Government to decrease the level of subsidies to petroleum users in rural areas will not be affected by our opposing this Bill. The Bill repeals section 6 of the principal Act giving greater flexibility to the oil companies in determining the rate of subsidy in various areas. It is an unfortunate fact that under this legislation the rates of subsidy are notified in the Australian Gazette and neither House of Parliament has any check on them. The Country Party strongly opposes the intention of the Government, as stated in the second reading speech of the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr. Cairns),  to increase the differential between metropolitan and non-metropolitan fuel prices. No doubt this measure has a particular appeal to the Labor Party which is zealous in its search for means of cutting back the support that is given to country people. However, much more than a philosophy is at stake. 
I strongly suspect that this intention of the Government is but an initial stage in a longer term program to phase out the petrol subsidy completely. Because of this and because of the importance of the subsidy it is vital that I emphasise the significance of this form of support to people living outside the capital cities in Australia. The idea of a national uniform petrol price was promoted by  Sir John  McEwen and in 1965, as an initial step, the Government agreed to introduce a minimum variation between prices paid in capital cities and elsewhere in Australia. Since then, that differential has been reduced and it is approximately 3.1c at the moment. But this was a truly national ideal, the purpose of which was that people living in remote areas of Australia would not be penalised. It had the very worthy objective of trying to bring about more decentralisation and of encouraging industry in country areas. The aim ultimately, of course, was to have a uniform price at which everybody could buy fuel. Unfortunately, we now find that the trend is in the reverse direction and the disparity is widening as a result of the Government's Budget decision. If the Coombs report is followed through the subsidy will be eliminated entirely. 
The clock is being turned back and the divisions within Australia are being widened. The disadvantages of living in country areas are increasing and the opportunities of decentralisation and of bringing about a more balanced development are less. But the effect on industries is enormous. It increases the costs of production to rural producers and that has the effect either of reducing their income or of increasing the cost of food. According to the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, fuel costs account for about 5 per cent of the average farm costs. This is a significant input factor and any increase in fuel costs naturally adds to overall farm costs. It is not an insignificant item and, indeed, is an essential one. Yet, this Government is arbitrarily increasing the cost not only by this means of extending the differential, but also through the additional 5c a gallon excise increase. 
However, my concern is not only for the effect on farmers but also the effects on decentralised industries and services and those people - the diverse multitude of people - who live in provincial cities and country towns. Everything used in decentralised industries is affected by the cost of transportation. The life of a person living in the country is very much affected by the cost of his fuel. I venture to say that the mileage travelled each year by the average country citizen is vastly greater than that, covered by the average city person. Country people may travel shorter distances but city people have the opportunity of alternative forms of public transport. Increased petrol costs are a very significant factor in the life of a country person. 
Let me cite as an example the position in Dubbo, New South Wales,. There is a differential of 6.4c a gallon between city petrol prices and those in Dubbo. The Government pays 3.1c a gallon subsidy so that the consumer in Dubbo pays 3.3c a gallon extra. The oil companies are proposing that the differential be decreased to 5.8c but the Government subsidy will be cut back from 3.1c to 0.8c, so that the consumer in Dubbo will now pay 5c a gallon above the Sydney price - an increase of nearly 2c on the previous level. However, let us carry this a little further. The Coombs committee has suggested, among other things, that the subsidy could be phased out over 3 years. If this were done, the consumer in Dubbo would pay an extra 6c on top of Sydney prices. I think it is particularly instructive to look at the situation in Leeton, which is in the electorate of Riverina so inadequately serviced by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby).  Under the Government's proposals, consumers in Leeton will pay an extra 1.7c a gallon through the Government's decision to vary the differential, and an extra 5c a gallon from the Budget's excise increase. So 6.7c a gallon extra will have to be paid for fuel in that area. Of course, if the subsidy is phased out, it will be even more than that. However, these are comparatively mild cases. The Coombs committee report says: 
The subsidy varies in accordance with the cost of transporting the fuels to country areas, and ranges as high as 35c- 
That is right, 35c- per gallon for motor spirit in remote areas with an Australia-wide average of  2ic  per gallon. 
I have in my possession a schedule which sets out subsidies payable to non-metropolitan areas under this legislation. It shows that the subsidy for Kalgoorlie is 2.9c a gallon; Meekatharra, 4.5c a gallon; Alice Springs, 6.5c a gallon; Bourke, 5.3c a gallon; Cobar, 4.4c a gallon; Mount Isa, 7.8c a gallon; Longreach, 7.4c a gallon; Tennant Creek, 8.4c a gallon; Oodnadatta, 11.1c a gallon; and Mount Newman, 13.2c a gallon. This is a very significant subsidy for those areas. If it is the intention to phase out the differential completely, this cost will immediately, be passed on to those who already live in high cost of living areas. 
The Minister's intention to increase the differential to 5c a gallon is bad enough, but I suspect that even worse is to follow. I suspect that this centralist Government intends to phase out the scheme altogether. Imagine an extra 35c a gallon in some of the remote areas of Australia, as has been suggested in the Coombs report. One particularly significant point is the situation in the Australian Capital Territory. Here petrol prices are subsidised by  ic  a gallon but if the Government's intentions are implemented this will be eliminated. It will be very interesting to see whether the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  will allow this to be passed on to the consumers or whether it will be absorbed by the oil companies. Already he is compelling the oil companies to absorb the 5c excise. Of course, this situation can go on for only a limited period. The Prices Commissioner who was asked to examine the situation said that the price should be passed on to the consumer, that it was fair and reasonable. Yet nothing has happened. Where do we go when the advice given by the Government's advisers is not heeded? It will be a hopeless situation here before long if the oil companies decide that no fuel will be available for the Australian Capital Territory. That must be the ultimate outcome of this sort of dogmatic attitude being taken by the Minister for the Capital Territory. 
What a magnificent contribution to decentralisation this proposal is. How effectively it implements the ALP's decentralisation policies. How completely it fulfils item No. 2 of its rural platform. The Labor Party's publication Rural - It's Time' reads: 
The Australian Government to provide funds where necessary to obviate the disparity between urban and rural areas in the cost of education, medical services, communications and other public utilities. 
This is the brochure distributed by the ALP before the last election. It goes on to say: 
As long as the Country Party has a dominant say in the Federal Government, policies of decentralisation based on large scale industrial activity and the creation of prosperous provincial cities remain deliberately dormant. 
It continues: 
The implementation of policies to establish permanent decentralised cities and towns of a solid economic base to allow for steady growth is an important platform of Labor policy. Processing and ancillary servicing industries will be given every encouragement through financial and taxation incentives. 
Let me now quote the third paragraph of the Minister's second reading speech: 
The scheme is expensive and less efficient in achieving its objective than is desirable. 
But the king daddy is this sentence: 
In practice the largest payouts under it are made in major inland cities. 
I would have thought that this was hardly consistent with ALP policy. 
In its policy brochure the Government accuses the Country Party of not doing anything to help provincial cities and towns and says that the Country Party has a hostile attitude to development. Yet one of the reasons it gives for reducing the differential is the high cost of distributing the fuel to some of these provincial cities and towns. I would have thought that the encouragement to decentralise industry into these areas was a very worthy and national objective which all members of that Party would have supported. But instead we have heard this hypocrisy from honourable members opposite. Apparently they do not squirm; they do not have any conscience at all when it comes to what they wrote in their policy speech before the last election. 
Nowhere will the impact be greater than in the northern regions of Australia - in the north west of Western Australia, in the Northern Territory and in Queensland. Yet this policy is directly contrary to the objectives of setting up a Department of Northern Development which was supposed to give people up there encouragement and to give them the same sort of opportunities as other people in Australia have. It is diametrically opposed in its effect to what its objective was supposed to be. 
As I said earlier, the Opposition does not intend to oppose this legislation. But we on this side of the House think it is important that there be scope for the freight differential to be flexible in accordance with changing industry standards. That is the reason why an amendment is being made to the Bill. What we object to is not the changing freight differentials and the changing distribution costs but the changing rates of subsidy. This is done by gazettal. Let me state now that the Country Party seeks to have those notices made by regulation within the definition of the Acts Interpretation Act so that the Parliament can exercise some control over the intentions of this Government. At the moment there is no measure that can be taken by either House of Parliament to prevent the Government from following through with its intention to. eliminate the differential completely. I hope that when the Bill goes to another place consideration will be given to introducing an amendment there which will require the Government to bring about any alterations by way of regulation. This would be laid before the Parliament and the Parliament, if it wished, could repect any alterations made. 
The intentions of the Government as known and stated are worthy of condemnation, but probably worse awaits us. This particular matter is just one of a whole series of matters by which the Government has been penalising and making conditions worse for those people living in rural areas and country towns. It is because of this that the Government deserves the greatest condemnation for its attitude in this matter. It is not a national government when it is displaying obvious sectional tendencies, which tendencies show bias towards people living in the city areas at the expense of people living in country areas. If we are to grow as one great nation it is imperative that people are encouraged to participate in the development of all sections of this nation. I do not want to see our city cousins penalised for the sake of unfair advantages that country people might receive, but I think we all have a right to equal conditions. That is basically what we are fighting for. We abhor what the Government is doing fundamentally in changing the present differential. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I do not appreciate the reflections that have been made on people who may have provided me with information as to what the intentions of the present Government are to try to reduce the price of meat. 
What the honourable member for Eden-Monaro is saying by innuendo is that certain people have provided me with information- 
I have been misrepresented because the honourable member for 
Eden-Monaro said that I obtained information illegally and that I did not have the right to use it. As a principal member of the Opposition I have every right to expose the actions of this Government which I believe are against the national interest, and I will continue to do it whenever possible. 
I can understand the great concern of the Government that the report of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices has been published prematurely by a newspaper. It is quite wrong and improper that a report of a committee be published prior to its presentation to the Parliament. I accept that fact and the need for this matter to go to the Standing Committee on Privileges. However, this is not the only matter that needs to go before that Committee. I believe that another report of far greater significance was prematurely published. The release of that report also should be examined. I refer to the report of the Coombs Committee which dealt with matters of tremendous financial significance. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the Government's decision to increase interest rates will mean that the Leeton Cooperative Cannery Ltd, in the Minister's own electorate, will have to pay an extra $170,000 a year in interest? Does this represent an increase in the cannery's interest payments of more than 38 per cent or abour $7 per ton of fruit processed? Is the Minister aware of the fears expressed by the General Manager of the Leeton Cannery,  Mr Lowe,  that this new burden, added to the burdens already imposed by the Government's actions in revaluing the currency, for which no compensation has been provided, will mean that Leeton Cannery could close, that many fruit growers in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area could go bankrupt and that a substantial part of the canning fruit industry could be decimated or destroyed along with the towns that depend on that industry? Are these fruit growers among those genuine primary producers who the Prime Minister told me yesterday had not been hurt by anything the Government had done? Finally, what action will be Minister take to see that claims for assistance with revaluation losses are urgently paid and that these vicious attacks by the Government on Australia's rural industries are brought to an end? 
 I second the motion that Standing Orders be suspended to allow the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to announce any appropriate Cabinet decisions which have been made since Parliament last sat. I will not say that all Cabinet decisions can be announced to the public or to Parliament, but any Cabinet decisions which are to be made public should be announced to this Parliament and not to a Press conference this afternoon. This is the area which is of concern to the Opposition. We often heard the Prime Minister, when he was Leader of the Opposition, championing the rights of this Parliament and saying that it should be supreme in any major policy announcements that are made. The Prime Minister treats the Parliament with contempt and with a lack of dignity when major policy decisions are made outside of Parliament during a period when Parliament is sitting. Naturally, statements will have to be made at times when it is not possible to make them to members of Parliament. When it is possible for statements to be made in this House the Prime Minister should do so and not make statements to the Press so that members of the Press have the advantage of being able to question the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister has the chance of putting his own interpretation on the policy decisions. 
Members of the Opposition have a right to question decisions and to make their own comments. If Parliament is to be treated with contempt a mockery is being made of this institution where the debate should be on both sides of the House. I presume that one of the reasons for the Prime Minister's strategy in making announcements outside of the Parliament is that he has time to do a little kite flying and to be able to reverse his decisions if Caucus rejects his proposals. Is that really the way to give leadership and to announce major policy decisions? The Australian people expect that any statement made in this House is a concerted approach by Government supporters. Yet, we are finding that decision after decision is being qualified so that nobody is quite sure whether it is a firm Government decision. I refer to the proposed referendum which would give power to the Commonwealth to control prices. 
I am not debating the issue. I am debating why it is unwise for such decisions to be made outside of this Parliament. In that case, the matter was canvassed in the public arena. The people thought that the Labor Party had a certain approach. Then we found that another point of view was being put by the Prime Minister. There was backing and filling and complete uncertainty as to what was the Government's approach. If this is the sort of feeling engendered throughout the Australian community, it is little wonder that the people have become concerned about the direction in which the Government is taking them. There is little wonder that the people of Parramatta rejected the Government so overwhelmingly on Saturday. They really did not know what was the policy or attitude of the Government. This is basically because the Prime Minister is trying to have a little both ways. He is making decisions outside the Parliament and coming into the chamber at a later date and informing us, as an afterthought almost, of what the decision is. We want major policy decisions to be announced in the House so that we know that the point of view is definite and so that we have a chance to comment upon it. We have seen enough cases of this already. Over the weekend 2 major decisions have been made. One was in relation to the cancellation of unemployment relief to non-metropolitan areas. Not a word has been said about that in the Parliament today. Also, a decision has been made in relation to the industry assistance commission. That is a major decision to replace the Tariff Board. I predict that this afternoon the Prime Minister- will make some comment to the public about this decision. That decision should be made in the Parliament because it is a major decision affecting legislation before the Parliament. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Labour. It is a supplementary question to that asked by the honourable member for Braddon. Now that the Government has announced that it is to continue the non-metropolitan unemployment relief scheme and to give special assistance to certain areas, I ask the Minister: Who makes the application? Is the application to be made direct by local government authorities to the Commonwealth or will it be made through the normal procedures of the State Government? If it is to be direct by local government authorities, under what statute has the Commonwealth power to give these grants direct to local government authorities? If special assistance is to be given to areas of unemployment in the country I ask that special consideration be given also to looking at ways and means of assisting the female unemployed who are in considerable numbers. The number of unemployed in country areas at the moment is at a record level. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Labour. Will the Minister inform the House what relief measures are proposed for the unemployed in rural areas for the period between the end of the present scheme which finishes this week and the implementation of the proposed new scheme? Does he realise that people are now being discharged, that hundreds of people are being affected and that the jobs of 8,000 people are at risk at the moment? Is this not a very cruel and inhumane way for a Labor government to be behaving? What steps should local government bodies take to ensure continued employment for those who are at present on relief? Finally, should these local government authorities continue to apply to State government authorities for assistance or is it his intention that they should apply directly' to him? This is the question I asked yesterday. I hope I can get a reply today because so many people are daily being discharged from their jobs. 
 Mr Speaker,  I second the motion moved by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that the House censure the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  because he has abused his power in relation to the New South Wales power dispute and has deceived the House in the information that has been provided to it. All the tabling of documents today, massive as they may be, will not clear up some of the misinformation, the misleading information, that he deliberately gave to this House. 
I was unceremoniously removed from this chamber just before the sittings of the House were interrupted 10 days ago. But this action was the culmination of one week's effort to try to obtain information from the Minister regarding his involvement with the Snowy Mountains Council in the New South Wales power strike. An attempt by the honourable member for Wannon to have a document tabled failed to reveal the information that the Minister had given a direction to the Snowy Mountains Council to conform with the wishes of the 35-Hour Week Committee. When we moved a procedural motion on Thursday 27 
September the Minister did not respond. He ducked the issue. No papers were tabled then. Today we have had to use one of the most extreme measures to try to get the tabling of some documents. But I am afraid it is too late because it is quite obvious that this Minister has little respect for this Parliament. Today he has shown that there was complicity between the 35-Hour Week Committee and himself. He does not deny that he was involved with the trade unions. He has given in to this industrial power. 
The motion now before the House is a very serious one. But it is not only members of this place who are concerned. The Melbourne Age', which is more patient than most other newspapers, last week eventually came to the conclusion that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  must be wondering how much longer the Minister for Minerals and Energy can be safely left to rampage in the corridors of power. This is a question which every member of this House must ask himself today. It is certainly, as the 'Age' suggests, a question which the Prime Minister must ponder on very deeply. We have heard about a Cabinet reshuffle. Surely if there is anywhere there should be a reshuffle - not just a change of portfolio but a dismissal - it is in the case of the Minister for Minerals and Energy. The Australian people must ask themselves whether it is good enough for vital industries of this nation to be under the control of a Minister who is so out of control. The Minister's fitness to continue to hold his portfolio must be seriously questioned. 
Again, as the 'Age' says, no Minister has contributed so consistently and offensively to the decline in the Government's international reputation, national confidence and public goodwill. It is perhaps not very serious when he throws things about in this House, or when he insults mining industry leaders, or when he makes childish and petulant remarks about the Press, or rips clocks off walls. These things, however undesirable, can perhaps be overlooked as the expression of a person's own idiosyncracies. But when great and vital national industries, the national interest and the well-being of the Australian people are placed in jeopardy by a marauding, uncontrolled and apparently uncontrollable Minister, the time has come for some pretty serious thinking. Today we are looking closely at this Minister's involvement in the 
New South Wales power dispute and the administration of the Snowy Mountains Council. In doing so we must ask whether he has acted with the propriety that is expected of a Minister of the Crown. What we are concerned about is not only the abuse of this power by a Minister of the Crown; the overriding issue is the manner in which the Minister for Minerals and Energy has explained, or not explained, to this House his actions and decisions. The truthfulness of his explanations also is under challenge. I have come to the conclusion that the truth is not contained in the explanations given by the Minister here today. His explanations are not wholly untruthful but they are at least a real manipulation of the truth. 
Let us look at the events leading up to the Minister's intervention in the New South Wales power dispute, including some matters which have not been made public, and certainly they had not been made public by the Minister until today. The 5,000 employees of the New South Wales Electricity Commission recently renewed their application to the State Industrial Commission for a 35-hour week. Following rejection of this request by the Commission the 35-hour Week Committee of the New South Wales Labour Council resolved to reduce progressively the output of power stations, and in Sydney there were some blackouts on the night of 23 September. Speaking on television on the night of 23 September the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said that he supported a 35-hour week for the power industry. The 35-hour Week Committee soon intensified its activities and severe power restrictions occurred in New South Wales. In the New South Wales Parliament on 3 October the New South Wales Minister for Power said that the Electricity Commission was drawing on supplies from the Snowy Mountains in a bid to minimise serious hardship throughout the State. New South Wales had used 80 per cent of its power entitlement from the Snowy up until the end of September. Meanwhile, industrial trouble had spread to the Snowy Mountains power stations.  Mr Jeffrey  of the 35-Hour Week Committee had gone there to organise industrial action. On 23 September there was a telephone discussion between the  Deputy Chairman  of the Snowy Mountains Council,  Mr Reiher,  and members of the Council concerning the operations of the scheme. Council members had been informed that the work force had decided to limit production from the scheme. The decision of the Council was to the effect that it would require the work force to operate the scheme in accordance with the Council's requirements and that it would not accept a situation where the work force limited production to less than its requirements. 
According to the Minister for Minerals and Energy, he was telephoned at 12.15 on the day before the Council's decision - Saturday, 22 September - and was told by one of the engineers of the Snowy Mountains Authority that the Blowering Dam was overflowing, and was asked what should be done. According to the Minister, he told this engineer that he should point out the position to the unions concerned. The Minister came to Canberra the following day - Sunday, 23 September - to meet officers of the Authority and to establish what was the position. No doubt he would have been told about the industrial dispute, the demands of the 35-hour Week Committee and the decision of the Council, but we were told none of these facts last week. The next development was that at 4 p.m. on that day the Minister phoned the  Deputy Chairman  of the Council,  Mr Reiher.  te tell him that the Snowy Mountains Council should operate the permanent works of the Authority in a manner that did not run counter to the intentions of the 35-hour Week Committee. He followed this up with a confirmatory letter next day, a copy of which has been made public by the honourable member for Wannon. That was the only way we could get the information. 
Those are the facts of the situation. Let us now see how they line up with what the Minister has told this House. As I said earlier, the Minister said that he was told that the Blowering Dam was overflowing. He went on to say in the House on 26 September that Blowering was full because of consistently high energy demands of the New South Wales Electricity Commission. He painted a graphic picture of the huge overflows from the Dam and talked about flooding. He related this to the fact that Lake Eucumbene was 50 per cent empty to keep up the supply of power and that if the overflow from the Blowering Dam continued there would a shortage of water for irrigation. 
The explanation simply does not hold up. If it is not a deliberate untruth it is at least a distortion of the truth. Let us consider the facts one at a time. Lake Eucumbene is at present 54 per cent full, which is target level. 
The level is purposely kept down so that the dam can cope with wet seasons. On a number of occasions - not two previous occasions as the Minister suggested - it has been as low as at present. The Minister is not correct. It has never been intended to keep the dam full. So the Minister's use of this matter is exposed as phony. 
Secondly, there is no cause for alarm about the overflow of Blowering. It overflowed only for a very brief period and did no harm. The rules adopted by the New South Wales Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission allow for a discharge from Blowering through the power station or irrigation valves at a rate of 3,000 cusecs. If flows occur over the spillway on Blowering the release through the power station or the irrigation valves is reduced accordingly. In a situation of some emergency there is scope for marginal change in these releases. Following a meeting of the Snowy Mountains Council on 26 September to consider this matter, arrangements were made for the total flow past Blowering to be raised to 3,100 cusecs. This increase does not create flood conditions along the Tumut River. The river level at the Tumut River pumping station was 4 feet 8 inches on 25 September and 5 feet on 5 October. 
Thirdly, there has been no question that there will be inadequate water supplies for the Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area. Lake Victoria is full, the Hume Reservoir is full and the Menindee Lakes scheme is full. Blowering and Burrinjuck are full and Lake Eucumbene is at target level. With these water reserves, high rates of power generation could be maintained for 12 months or even for 2 years without concern over irrigation supplies. To put it bluntly, this whole tactic of scaremongering on irrigation supplies was used by the Minister, and supported in a most unscrupulous way by the Minister for Immigration, in an attempt to hide his real motive which was to support the blackmail tactics of the New South Wales trade unions. The real issue is that the documentary evidence shows that the Minister on the afternoon of 23 September told the Deputy Chairman of the Snowy Mountains Council to obey the demands of the people running the New South Wales power dispute. On that day the Deputy Chairman had been in telephone discussion with the members of the Council and they had decided to stand firm against the trade unions. The direction given by the Minister meant that the Council was overridden. More importantly, it also meant that in effect the 35-Hour Week Committee, with the connivance of the Minister, was running the operations of the Snowy Mountains scheme. 
What the Minister said to this House on 26 September was completely irrelevant and completely misleading. This whole matter is now exposed for what it is - a direct and illegal intervention by the Minister in a State industrial matter. This is the unvarnished fact and the unclouded truth. It is clear that the Minister has completely misled the House in his explanation of his activities. He has hidden the truth. He is directly responsible for much of the hardship resulting from the power restrictions in New South Wales. He has interfered in a most unwarranted, distasteful and sordid manner in the administration of the New South Wales Government. The Minister secretly has used his authority to support worker control of the Snowy Mountains Council and has undermined established authority. He has encouraged worker-control lawlessness to force the introduction of a 35-hour week by blackmail tactics against the New South Wales Government and the people of New South Wales. He has acted contrary to the stated attitude of the Prime Minister who said that his Government had no right to become involved in the New South Wales power dispute. Yet the directive of the Minister still stands that the Council has to obey the working conditions set by the 35-Hour Week Committee. 
The Minister has disgraced his high office and the propriety of this House by his evasiveness and his failure to reveal the full facts. (Extension of time granted). I thank the House. I will take only another minute. If the Government is to have any credibility, any self-respect, it has no option but to remove from office this Minister who has not treated this House with the dignity and the respect with which we believe he should have because of his failure to reveal all the facts. There has been a shameful disrespect of the authority and the proper place of this Parliament. If the Prime Minister at a time of a major ministerial reshuffle is to ignore the behaviour of this Minister, I believe that not only the Minister stands condemned but also the Government stands condemned for its attitude towards this 35-hour week strike and the Snowy Mountains power authority. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Does the Minister envisage Japanese participation in the development of a petro-chemical industry in the Pilbara region, as outlined in his communications with the Premier of Western 
Australia? Has he discussed this matter with the representatives of the Japanese interests at present in Canberra? Will the Minister inform the House of his attitude towards Japanese involvement in the Pilbara proposals, which provide for the use of the natural gas that the Government intends to acquire from the north-west shelf? 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy will recall telling me yesterday that there will be no Japanese participation in the proposed development to occur in the Pilbara region. Is this prohibition on Japanese investment in the Pilbara to have application also to other projects in other parts of Australia or is it confined to Western Australia? Also, will the prohibition apply to other countries which might wish to participate in the development of Australia's resources for our benefit? 
I address my question to the Minister for Overseas Trade. Was the recent agreement for the sale of wheat to the People's Republic of China negotiated by the 
Australian Wheat Board or was it negotiated by the Minister independently of the Wheat Board? In relation to the term of 3 years with respect to the sale, while I understand that it is not correct and appropriate to ask the price at which the sale was made or the terms of that sale, I would like to know whether a firm price has been made for the 3-year period or whether it is to be on the market circumstances for the 3 years. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. During the course of question time the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in answer to a Dorothy Dix question deliberately, by inference, tried to misinterpret the intentions of the Country Party in purchasing a house in Mugga Way, Canberra. This was a despicable act on his part. The inference was that that house has been bought with overseas multi-national - call it what you like - capital. The facts of the situation are that 10 years ago a group of Country Party people endeavoured to organise finance to establish a secretariat in Canberra. For many years numerous people in branches of the Party throughout Australia worked to raise money for that project. The project was completed in 1968. In the wind-up of the fund for that project a certain amount of money was left over in a trust account, which was an investment account. Much of the money that came in later was as a result of a cattle scheme under which people gave calves-- 
None. If honourable members opposite want to make an electoral issue out of this matter let them do so. There are supporters of the Government who are prepared to get into the area of gutter politics. The only reason I mention this matter is that I know there are some people who might be led to believe the irresponsible remarks of the Leader of the House. As I said, some funds were left over. They were in a trust account which could be used only for investment purposes by the Country Party. We saw this as a good investment. We had to borrow money to make the purchase. We are proud of everything we have done because it has been made possible by a lot of Australians who very much believe in what we stand for. 
I do not think the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  would mind if I referred to him as a young socialist. 
People are entitled to their political points of view. That is one of the distinctions between Government members and the Opposition. Government members believe in greater government involvement and control in the private sector. From listening to the honourable member for Blaxland it is quite obvious that he is somewhat obsessed by the degree of private involvement in resources and services of this country and is very concerned about the degree of foreign involvement in overseas companies, as if all foreign involvement is bad and against the national interest. It is fairly normal and typical for a socialist to talk that way. It appeals to a patriotic feeling within the community. But to apply these things to the total situation of government involvement and control does not utilise the resources of the nation to the best possible extent. There needs to be a very healthy involvement of the private sector, with government involvement only where government involvement is desperately necessary. Much can be done by a government by issuing directions and guidelines without being totally involved in the processes of production. 
This is potentially one of the most important pieces of legislation to be presented to this Parliament. I refer to the amendments to the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill which are being debated together. Its fundamental premise is that increasing government and public participation is warranted, and indeed necessitated, by the degree of ownership of Australian resources. I agree - I think we all do - that it is basically desirable that the Australian people retain as much control as possible over the country's resources. However, whether the control should be extended to ownership depends very much on the penalties involved in pursuing this objective, not to mention the question of basic philosophy that is involved. The present degree of over seas ownership exists because Austraiian resources of management and finance were employed and needed in other areas of the economy. Given very limited availability of those Australian resources, their application to industries at present owned by overseas interests would have involved the neglect of other fields such as Australia's economic infrastructure. If it is believed desirable that we buy back the farm, we need to ask why we require a large bureaucratic organisation of awesome power to achieve this objective. It is even more pertinent to ask whether it is overseas ownership which is the object of Government disfavour or overseas control. If it is control, then the Minister for Minerals and Energy, for example, is doing a good job in demonstrating very forcibly the power of the Government to exercise control, however capricious, over the operation of business in Australia. If it is ownership we need to know the exact disadvantages to Australia of foreign ownership, the need for direct government intervention to counter it, and the areas of the economy in which it is most undesirable. It seems quite clear to me that, before farreaching legislation of this nature is considered, such questions should be clearly thought through and answered. It is not good enough to talk in meaningless generalities about the dangers of overseas ownership and the need to have greater control over our own resources. Such rhetoric may have some appeal to a blind nationalist, but it is very inadequate in relation to legislation involving huge amounts of taxpayers' money. 
This legislation expands the function of the AIDC to the extent that the scope of its activities and the extent of its financial resources are almost unlimited. It will now look for propositions, at the possibilities of establishing new companies and for opportunities where it can take or hold major, or indeed, majority shareholdings, in companies. It will serve as a huge, freely-moving, highly-mobile and politically-capricious source of investment money which can exercise a de-stabilising influence in the loan markets, the money market and the stock market. With the capacity to raise finance on the international loan market and through other avenues it will be a major factor in the operations of the loan and money markets. Perhaps most significant of all is the national interest division, which will serve as a backdoor method of allocating taxpayers' money for the purpose of furthering the undefined national interest as visualised by the Government. The taxpayers' money will be allocated on such terms and conditions as the Government thinks fit. Moreover, this gigantic roving empire, while using taxpayers' money both through the national interest division and through advances to the national investment fund, is answerable to the Ministers more than the Parliament, whose control extends only to the signing of blank cheques and the receipt of an annual report. The expanded AIDC will serve as a direct competitor of life insurance companies and superannuation funds, and will enjoy the advantage of tax concessions. The overall policy guidelines of the Corporation are unclear. Is it to serve as a means of redirecting our trade flow? Is it to be the sole avenue for overseas investment? Is it to serve as a means of directing domestic savings to the development of our resources, or is it to serve as an instrument of policy? Its functions are broad to the extent that it may become involved to any degree in virtually any industry for any purpose, utilising any amount of money. 
I oppose this Bill in its entirety for reasons I will explain. The present Act limits the scope and functions of the AIDC while enabling it to perform a useful role in the economy. The existing function of the AIDC is to assist in the provision of financial resources required by Australian companies engaged or proposing to engage in key -industries. Its main source of finance is the overseas loan market, but section 7 (5) of the 1970 Act allows the Corporation to supplement its borrowings outside Australia by borrowing money within Australia subject to Reserve Bank supervision. The existing law also requires that the co-operation of a company must exist before the AIDC becomes actively involved in that company and also requires its co-operation to liquidate its holdings in the company as soon as the Corporation management thinks the original purpose of its involvement has been served. But what happens under this new legislation? The Reserve Bank authority to supervise AIDC's domestic borrowings will be removed. The AIDC will no longer be legally required to emphasise loan financing or to ensure that its holdings of shares is only temporary. Instead, it can go on the offensive, buying shares openly or secretly, making takeover bids or doing deals with management for positions on the board of directors. It is clearly envis aged that it will serve as a vehicle for increased government participation in, and control of, Australian industry. I believe that if there is genuine government concern over the operations of free enterprise in Australia, including its multi-national side, the Government already has ample scope, and has demonstrated that scope, to exercise firm control. If it is only control that the Government is seeking, then this legislation is a most costly and indirect method of achieving what can be achieved much more simply and directly under the Government's existing powers. 
I have broad objections to this type of legislation, and this piece of legislation. The Government has major responsibilities demanding its attention in the traditional areas of social welfare, education, defence, and so on. Active involvement in the manufacturing nd mining and associated capital markets  i  .st reduce the Government's capacity to apply its skills and resources in those traditional areas. Further, by actively involving itself in ownership of the means of production, the Government will set in train a significant transfer of resources From the private sector to the public sector. What is in fact being proposed in this legislation is a giant step towards socialism. What we are talking about here is public ownership. This legislation is designed to facilitate and increase public ownership of industry. That is what socialism is - public ownership and government control. And this Bill is only one of a string of initiatives by this Government to implement its socialist philosophy. 
The AIDC is to be transformed from a government-sponsored tool for the mobilisation of capital to help build and develop and strengthen industry under Australian free enterprise ownership and direction, into a mechanism designed to advance the socialist objective of public ownership, control and management of industry. Let there be no mistake about it. Further, through the provisions in the legislation for the Government to channel finance through the AIDC, the way has been opened for increases in government expenditure of a quite unpredictable magnitude. Perhaps more importantly, such provisions involve a compulsory mobilisation of the Australian people's money for objectives which are very much at the discretion of the Government - not parliament - and in which the people providing the money, the taxpayers, will have no say. 
Once again we are to see yet further proliferation of statutory organisations, each having vast individual economic powers, and able to exercise very substantial influences in the operations of the economy, its direction and nature. I refer to such bodies as the proposed Minerals and Energy Authority, the National Pipeline Authority, the Industries Assistance Commission, the Social Welfare Commission and the Australian Industries Development Corporation. The ultimate effect of this bureaucratisation must be a dispersal of power away from the elected representatives of the people to organisations whose links may be very direct with the Government but very tenuous with the Parliament and therefore with the people. Indeed the situation could be reached where Ministers may exercise a general supervision over the operations of these bodies, but real power will rest with statutory corporation not directly or even largely responsible to the Parliament or to the Government. The real centres of economic power will become dispersed away from government and legislators. With a body of the scope proposed for the AIDC, the only authority exercised by Parliament will be the general approval of _ government finance on unspecified terms and conditions and the receipt of an annual report after the money has already been spent. 
The Government has drawn a parallel between the AIDC and the Industrial Reconstruction Institute of Italy the IRI. In the industries in which IRI is involved there is a component of private enterprise, but it is IRI which, in most instances, has the controlling interest and the final say. Where IRI is unable to assist an industry or concern, the Italian Government underwrites its participation - in the national interest. Today this scheme includes something like 130 companies, integrated and operated under a unified guide. The IRI accounts for 95 per cent and 60 per cent respectively of the country's pig iron and steel assets; it is present to varying degrees in several engineering branches; its shipbuilding sector covers 80 per cent of the nation's shipyard capacity. On IRI depends the whole urban telephone network as well as the Italian Radio and Broadcasting Company. If the Australian Government intends to use the IRI as a model for the AIDC, this Parliament is entitled to a full explanation as to the intentions of the Government for certain industries and areas of the economy. There have been some indications that the minerals and energy industry is one in which the Corporation will be particularly active. The Minister for Minerals and Energy has said that the AIDC may have more than a sporting interest in the industrial development of the Pilbara region of Western Australia. Under these circumstances it must be assumed that the Government believes that while some ventures will not be attractive to private enterprise, they may be attractive to the AIDC. If so, one must ask why. 
It is a frightening thought that public money can be committed in large amounts, not on the basis of any rigorous cost/ benefit analysis, but for the furtherance of what the Government sees as the national interest. To advise the Government as to what constitutes the national interest, a national interest committee is proposed, with ministerial appointees whose fees, allowances and tenure of office will be prescribed. But it is not only the national interest section of the legislation that is open to various interpretations. Under the AIDC Bill, the Corporation is permitted to issue securities which are apparently under the National Investment Funds Bill. It is not stated in either Bill what the status of these assets will be between AIDC or the National Investment Fund. In fact, the Bill dealing with the fund does not even mention these securities except where it gives a supervisory council the power to get information on the fund from the Corporation. 
The previous Leader of the Australian Country Party,  Sir John  McEwen, was very much involved with the establishment of AIDC. Its purpose was to raise funds to help Australian industries participate in the development of resources. It had a limited charter but its charter was useful and served a worthwhile purpose. I believe today with the amendments and the extended powers now being given to AIDC it will mean undue bureaucratic involvement in the private sector of the community and is a major tool towards socialisation of many of the productive areas of the Australian economy. 
Firstly, I want to correct a statement made by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  He accused me of notifying some Melbourne newspaper of the statement issued by Woodside-Burmah Oil NL the day before it was released. Let me assure this House that I received the statement put out by WoodsideBurmah in its half-yearly report at the same time as the Press. If the honourable member for Blaxland wants to rely on this sort of scurrilous argument to try to defend his position and the case of the Government then I believe he falls into complete disrespect and so does the Government of which he is a supporter. If he expects to stay in this House telling lies such as this nobody will treat him seriously or with any regard whatsoever. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has made a statement regarding the north west shelf. Apparently the statement was circulated just as we all went to dinner tonight. Unfortunately some of us had engagements and did not have time to examine it. On an issue which has been of such tremendous concern to the nation, which has caused the stock exchanges of the nation to rock and in relation to which accusations have been made against the Minister and the Government, I would have thought that the Government might have shown some decency by giving members of the Opposition time to analyse this statement and come back with a considered reply. 
But no, the cunning of the Minister- 
 Do we have to listen to such interjections as: 'You could have adjourned the debate'? If one looks at the notice paper one finds that it is littered with adjourned debates. When is the Government ever going to bring them back on for debate in this House? We have to make the most of the opportunity to have any say in these matters when they are presented. It takes all the efforts of the Opposition to get any statement or comment out of the Minister for Minerals and Energy. When we do get comments from him, half the time they are misleading and distorted and do not give the full facts. This was the situation relating to the Snowy Mountains Authority incident. But tonight the Minister has delivered a statement which I have been able to read only briefly while the    i  lister was speaking. It is full of all sorts of innuendoes as to the wickedness and the badness of private enterprise and overseas companies which in this country are involved in the exploration and the development of minerals, fuel and gas. It is quite obvious that the Minister has a sort of xenophobia. He is paranoiac about private enterprise. He blusters and knocks private enterprise right and left, shattering industry, creating uncertainty and a complete loss of confidence. Stock exchanges rumble every time he makes a statement because they do not know which way to turn. But one thing is quite obvious, and that is that ti; is Minister is going to get his way and industry is going to bow to whatever he says. He talks about these hillbillies, these people with ineptitude. He seems to be able to sling insults and thinks it does not matter that he is doing so as a Minister of the Crown. But, of course, it does. It has a tremendous impact on the confidence and the goodwill of companies which want to come and develop the resources of this country. 
The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  replied to the Minister's statement. I thought he made an excellent reply in the circumstances of the limited amount of time he had to be able to rally his facts. But he showed that he had a full understanding of the situation, and he was able to expose many of the extravagant remarks made in this statement concerning Woodside-Burmah. As the honourable member for Farrer said, it seems that Woodside-Burmah is in the spotlight for attack. I wonder why? No doubt it is because this consortium of companies has been the most successful in uncovering reserves of gas in this country. It offers enormous industrial potential for Western Australia and, of course, for Australia as a whole. But the Minister has decided that nothing will be done in this area until the Government has worked out exactly how it can infiltrate and have complete control, if not ownership, over these resources. On page 2 of the statement the Minister stated how lucky Woodside-Burmah was in having had a success ratio of 1:3.2 whereas the average around the rest of the world is 1:10. From the way the Minister speaks it seems that it is almost a penalty for this company to have been so successful. It is a bit like a person who bets on an outsider at the race track. When the horse comes home at 100 to 1 all of a sudden somebody says: 'We had better have a re-run of the race. That is too much success for any one person. You just cannot have it.' 
What Australia needs is people who are prepared to come into this country to search for oil and gas and to undertake the development of our resources. If there is anything that the world as a whole needs today it is the discovery of more sources of energy to be brought into production until other forms of energy are devised. There is a world energy shortage today. A crisis is being developed. A potential crisis is facing this country for the near future unless we find more reserves. At present our reserves consist of about 2 million barrels. We know that within the next 20 years we will need reserves of 9 million barrels to meet our own demands. How are we ever going to find that quantity in this country when we have this Minister frightening away people who want to invest money in this field? What overseas companies will come to Australia if they know that this Minister can dictate to them on terms which make it nearly impossible for them to operate? It certainly does not give them any confidence to invest risk capital in what is one of the most risky ventures one can get into in the commercial world. 
Reference has been made to the half-yearly statement of  Mr Donaldson  in which he said that the Government had informed WoodsideBurmah that it would take over ownership of the gas. He says that he was responsible for this statement becoming public. Why do we have to hear through a company what is Government policy? Why does the Minister not have the courage and the decency to get up in this Parliament and tell us what is Government policy, or was he trying to keep it secret in the hope that it would never be found out? It is little wonder that there was a collapse on the stock exchanges the next day when this sort of dynamic statement was revealed to the Australian public. This disclosure was not included in the statement which was made tonight. The Minister had to table a letter which was apparently written by the  Chairman  of Woodside-Burmah (UK). I took down- some of the quotes the Minister made from that letter. He said: 'We appreciate the opportunity for meeting and talking with you'. I will bet he did! According to the reports I received the Minister would not see the Australian representatives of WoodsideBurmah. He demanded that the  Chairman  of Woodside-Burmah (UK) fly from England to consult personally with him because it was below his dignity to see anybody else. When a Minister goes on in this sort of arrogant manner- 
 When a Minister goes on in this sort of arrogant manner it is little wonder that companies get concerned and worried. We were waiting to hear in this statement tonight the terms and conditions that the Minister offered to Woodside-Burmah. Was there any price condition? Was there an assurance in regard to quantity? When was the fuel going to be available? Obviously WoodsideBurmah and the other members of the consortium will have to make very quickly some decisions on the spending of something like S300m to $500m - a colossal amount of money anyway - just to develop the well-head. But the Government has said in vague terms to this company: 'You will get a good price. It will not be an extravagant price but it will not be a bad return on your money.' I suppose it is like the first time that Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd went to the Prices Justification Tribunal. It got a return. It was an increase of 3 per cent and it meant that BHP automatically had to shelve development projects worth $ 1,300m. What confidence can anyone have in a Minister who makes vague statements like the one he has made tonight? 
All we know is that the Minister has said - puffing out his chest - that Australian companies have all the know-how and all the capital which is necessary to expand the downstream developments. 
He has said that an Australian company will put in a refinery. A company will put in a petro-chemical industry and no doubt a costly plant will be installed. Undoubtedly stemming from that an aluminium refinery will be established and so on. They are to be all-Australian in Western Australia. Foreign capital - and certainly Japanese capital - is not wanted. He has told us that Japanese capital is not needed, nor is it wanted. I presume that applies to all other countries. I suppose that the same thing applies in respect of South Australia and the big petro-chemical industry to be developed in that State. The Minister is getting involved in that matter and this is causing very great concern. I have just received information that in the South Australian Parliament a motion was passed today - a Labor government is in office in that State - expressing deep concern at the involvement of the Minister for Minerals and Energy in the Redcliffe petro-chemical project. That motion was moved by the State  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and was supported by members of the Labor Party including the Premier,  Mr Dunstan.  This is a case of a Labor government getting concerned about what is happening in South Australia. 
I ask honourable members: What can we believe of this man? Earlier this year he started criticising Woodside-Burmah and said that it was not providing him with the necessary information. He came forward in April and tabled documents in the House in an effort to justify the allegations that he had made. What was the outcome of the tabling of those papers? They did not prove that the company was not providing information. What they did prove was that there was misunderstanding between the Department and the company concerned. When we hear these snide remarks being made - as he so cleverly does in this statement - about WoodsideBurmah not providing all the information to the Government it is strange because the Western Australian Minister for Mines,  Mr Don  May, has said that there has been complete co-operation with Woodside-Burmah and that it has provided all the information. Where do we stand? The Government says that reserves have not been accurately assessed and the correct information has not been given to the Government. But the consortium brought in a private company to evaluate the situation and to make a report. It has said that all this information is with the Bureau of Mineral Resources. Who are we to believe in this matter? It is quite obvious that the Minister is distorting the situation and is painting a picture of hatred against international companies who are trying to develop the area. 
I am as keen as anybody else in this country in regard to Australia's resources and I would like to see them remain in Australian hands. I would like to see Australians get the maximum benefit out of them. But there are limitations in our know-how, our capital and our capacity to develop these things. We need a sensible policy. We should not be putting complete embargoes on the export of gas. We should have a policy to maintain control over our resources. We should not put a blanket embargo on them. Possibly in the early stages we should allow a small quantity to be exported in order at least to cover some of the developing company's capital. But at all times we should retain the right for Australia to have the first claim on these resources when it is deemed necessary. That is not the Labor Party's policy. Labor's policy is towards the socialisation of this resource as it is in regard to other resources. All I can say is that it was an unfortunate day for Western Australia when this Government came into power. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Jacobi)  adjourned. 
I want to follow up by a question to the Minister for Services and Property. In asking this question I think that 1 should clear up the matter of the comments 
I made last night. I asked for tax deductions for anybody who is a donor to a political party. 
There was no reference whatsoever to foreign companies or multinationals. Since the Minister for Services and Property seems to be so concerned about multi-national corporations, in relation to which he makes these scurrilous imputations, is he now stating that tax deductions will be allowable for Australians or Australians who are involved with overseas companies in which they form a major shareholder? If so, would not this put private people and companies on the same basis as trade unions, whose fees are tax deductible at the moment and used to finance the Australian Labor Party? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is the Australian Government buying and circulating the publication 'Nation Review' for distribution abroad to community leaders and government agencies. 
If so, (a) is it using overseas courier services for this operation and (b) what is the estimated annual cost to the government of purchasing and distributing Nation Review' for this purpose. 
 Mr Speaker.  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  I was misrepresented during question time today by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  when he said that a statement I put out last night referred to contributions of multinational and foreign companies. There was no reference whatsoever to them in my statement.  His  statement today is a clear and calculated distortion of the facts. Perhaps I should read what 1 said. I said: 
The Prime Minister and  Mr Daly  will no doubt be disappointed to learn that the Country Party has no concern at all about the proposal to legislate for the disclosure of the sources of political parties funds. 
However, we will be proposing at least one amendment to the legislation when it is introduced, and that is that donations or subscriptions to party funds should be tax deductible - as are the union dues which help finance the Labor Party. 
Further, I am wondering why the disclosure requirement is to apply only from now, and is not retrospective. 
It would be very interesting to learn the source of the $lm which the Labor Party spent on the last election campaign. 
There is no reference whatsoever in that to substantiate the scurrilous remarks made by this irresponsible Minister. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. He will be aware of the fact that, unless Queensland Mines Ltd is granted mining titles to its areas in the Northern Territory and is permitted to develop its uranium reserves, it will lose its areas at the end of this year and will be unable to fulfil its contracts. He also will be aware of the fact that, whilst the Minister for Minerals and Energy says that he supports the rights of the company and wants to see its contracts honoured, other Ministers have refused to grant the titles required. I ask the Prime Minister whether he will intervene in this matter to ensure that this company is not forced into having to forfeit its titles as a result of a difference of opinion between Ministers. I ask this particularly in view of the fact that the Deputy Prime Minister gave assurances to the company earlier this year. 
My question relates to a difference of opinion between Ministers. 
My question again is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that the Minister for Minerals and Energy did not explain the situation and did not reveal the full circumstances of the threat that is being held over Queensland Mines Ltd - that it may have to be liquidated - the question that needs to be answered is this: In view of the fact that the licence of this company expires at the end of this year and it needs to get title to be able to develop this lease so that it can honour its contract, how is this possible when the Department of the Interior has informed the company that it will- 
It is all right for the Prime Minister to be smart, but it was the previous Department of the Interior which gave the advice that it could not make a decision on giving a lease until the Woodward report came forward and that it did not expect that report until the middle of next year. This is an impossible situation for the company. I ask the Prime Minister, as the Prime Minister or the senior man of the Government, to try to resolve this difference between departments. 
The Australian Country Party is opposed to the establishment of the Industries Assistance Commission, and therefore it opposes this legislation. This proposal, worthy and innocuous though it might seem, should be critically examined on both sides of the Parliament and by the industries that will be so critically affected by it.  I  believe that industry has not made this critical examination of the proposal and that a much longer period of time should be allowed for the members of this House to examine the proposal, the deep implications of which become apparent only after thorough study. Therefore,  I  propose later to move an amendment seeking to have further consideration of this Bill deferred until the autumn session of the Parliament. 
This is monumental legislation which will have far-reaching consequences on the use of the nation's resources and on the people who are making their living with and by those resources. The nation's real wealth, and how it is to be used, is in question. Perhaps the reason why there has been little reaction to this proposal lies in the esteem in which  Sir John  Crawford is held.  His  report has not drawn critical attention. But one must realise that he was given a prescribed and limited task to prepare a report on how such a commission could be constructed. I wonder whether he would come up with the same conclusions if he were asked what he thought was the best and most practical method of devising the policies this Parliament should adopt for industry.  His  conclusions might be the same, because he was responsible for advising the Government in 1950 to create a primary industry protection board. However the members of the Government of the day rejected that proposal because they saw it as erecting another bureaucracy and furthering government interference in industry. That proposal was a babe in the wood compared with the Bill before us today so far as is provides for the intrusion of bureaucracy into the policy-making and planning activities of industry. 
I believe that many of those who support this proposal, including those industries which have not opposed it, have based their support on the mistaken assumption that the Industries Assistance Commission will live up to its name. This proposed body should be called, not the Industries Assistance Commission, but the Industries Assistance-Withdrawal Commission. Withdrawal of assistance from industry is the clear policy of this Government. There cannot be the slightest shadow of doubt about that. The record of the last 10 months cannot be denied. The Coombs report cannot be denied. The Commission proposed in this Bill is to be established, it is said, to devise ways of assisting industry. I believe its task will be to devise justifications for the denial of assistance or for the withdrawal of existing assistance. A new bureaucratic organisation is to be set up to provide the Government with the justification it seeks for its well known and forcibly demonstrated attitudes to this nation's productive industries.  Sir, this  Parliament is being asked to approve a measure which can do no other than reduce the Parliament's standing and authority. We are being asked to authorise the Government to act in ways which will damage not only the principles of ministerial responsibility and government discretion, but which will take away from this Parliament some more or what little respect and authority it has left under this Government. We are being asked to destroy the system of consultation and negotiation which until now has been the foundation stone of the formulation of industry policy, particularly, but not exclusively, so far as primary industry is concerned. We are being asked to approve the establishment not only of an organisation with im mense powers, or authority- call it what you will - which the Government will find irresistible, but powers which the Government could welcome for the shelter and refuge they will offer. We are being asked to approve, in effect, the creation of a central planning authority with powers, duties and responsibilities which should be the Government's own. We are being asked to approve the creation of a situation in which the elected representatives of the people, the elected Government, will be bound - not simply permitted, but bound - to seek the advice and the recommendations of a statutory organisation before it can make decisions on assistance for industry; not just temporary arrangements but permanent policies. Not only will this clearly inhibit the Government; not only will it give the Government a way out of what should be its own responsibilities, but it will establish situations in which the Government will virtually be bound to accept and act upon the Commission's recommendations. No doubt that is what the Government wants. It wants a body to which it can pass the buck - a body which can carry the odium of its decisions. This is a bad and dangerous principle. 
In theory, the Government need only regard the Commission's recommendations as recommendations which it is not bound to accept. That is the theory. But in practice, the Government will find that it will have the greatest difficulty in rejecting the Commission's recommendations because if it does, it will lay itself open to a great deal of public criticism. And this is bad and dangerous because the Commission will have sweeping powers, and it will exercise those powers and make public its views in such a way as to place the Government in an intolerable position. Not only will it be mandatory for the Government to refer assistance proposals to the Commission and to receive the Commission's advice before it can act, but also the Commission will be empowered to initiate its own inquiries and to present recommendations to the Government without waiting to be asked by the Government to do so. And the serious implications of this are that we are being asked to create a powerful central planning authority with extremely wide terms of reference - far wider than those of the Tariff Board - and a body which will, by the nature of its genesis in the national Parliament and the deference with which it will inevitably be treated by the Government, exercise an influence of such power as should not be vested in any organisation outside the Government itself. 
The legislation provides that the Commission will be required not only to consider the immediate circumstances of an inquiry and the consequences for an industry of assistance that might be sought, or which might already exist and is sought to be reduced or abolished, but it will also be required to consider the following matters: The allocation of national resources, in itself a vast consideration and a tremendous responsibility to be removed from this Parliament and the Government and given to a statutory body without direct responsibilities to the people; full employment; price stability; external balance; conservation of the environment; the interests of consumers; national economic policy; and trade policy. It boggles the mind to think of all the divisions in the Commission adequately to handle those matters. 
This Commission will not be simply an advisory body, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  would have us believe. I am sure that the Prime Minister would be frank enough to say, even now, that he intends to accept virtually whatever advice the Commission gives him - as he is doing with the Coombs report - although that is child's play compared with this new body. That is why I say the Commission will be a central planning body with vast powers conferred upon it by this Parliament. The Commission will, in fact, determine policies - not mere statistics but policies - and highly complex arrangements which should be determined by the Government itself, and by the Parliament. I do not object to the principle - in fact I support it - that industry which seeks protection or assistance should be subjected to an examination to determine its economy and its efficiency. These are the criteria on which the existing Tariff Board is required to base its judgments. The existing Tariff Board already has the authority, if it is needed to be used, to examine and report upon protection and assistance not only for secondary industry, but also for primary industry as well. In the case of protection for a primary industry where a level of protection has to be determined, the Board carries out this examination as with any secondary industry. But there are schemes giving assistance to secondary, mining and primary industry which have not involved the Tariff Btard, and for good reasons. Even where this particular kind of examination of industry has not preceded the provision of assistance, I believe there has been proper and adequate justification for what has been done. But the criteria of economy and efficiency are by no means the only criteria on which the Government, as distinct from a body set up to look dispassionately at the economics of an industry, must make its decisions. The same applies to the proposed Commission. What I am complaining of is the clear intention of the Government to hand over to this body the decision-making responsibilities which should be the Government's own. 
Let us not think,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the Commission will be simply an expanded Tariff Poard with a new name. It will be a vastly more powerful body with vastly wider authority and influence than the Tariff Board. It will not be simply making economic judgments on the circumstances of industries, but it will be making judgments on virtually the whole range of national economic policy. These judgments will be presented to the Government in such a way and with such powerful authority that the Government will be unable to resist them. In other words, the responsibilities which the national Government and the national Parliament should accept and exercise in national economic policy, will be in future exercised by the new bureaucracy which this Parliament is being asked to establish. The dangers in this are clear. Take the practical example of the situation in which the wool industry found itself two or three years ago. This is one of the nation's largest industries with assets of probably &gt;$10,000m. The wool industry was in a desperate position, and many people were predicting that it had virtually no future. What would have been the response of a body like the proposed commission if it had been asked to recommend what assistance should be given to the wool industry at that time, taking into account the criteria which it will be required to consider in reaching iti decisions? It must be quite evident that the wool industry would have been denied assistance. On the face of it and on the face of the criteria which are proposed, there clearly would have been no justification for assistance, except perhaps welfare assistance and vast reconstruction and dismantling of the industry. This would have turned a crisis into a catastrophe. But because the Government of the day was prepared to accept its responsibilities instead of unloading them onto people who would have no requirement on them to consider vital factors other than those laid down in the law, we were able to respond to the need of the wool industry and to give it the assistance it had to have. In other words, we had the courage to make a political decision and to accept the consequences of it. That is what this game is all about. That is democratic government. We did it in the face of the most trenchant public criticism, and in the face of the arguments of those who said that wool was finished and the industry should be allowed to wither. In accepting this legislation, we would be supporting the possibility - the strong possibility - of creating just that kind of situation. 
What this legislation means, of course, is the end of the long-established and successful system under which industry policy has been devised - the system of discussion, consultation and negotiation between industry and government. This legislation means that it will be quite pointless, even if it is permissible, for industry to put its views directly to the Government, to Ministers, or to Government departments. I cannot see how any industry which feels its case has not been properly dealt with by the Commission can have any effective right of appeal. No doubt it will be claimed that there will be a right of appeal to the Government, that the Commission will only be making recommendations on what should be done. But, as I said earlier, the the Government is asking us to approve the establishment of a Commission of such power and such authority that the Government will find it virtually impossible to reject or amend the Commission's recommendations - and that is something which should not be acceptable to this Parliament. This Commission, artfully using maximum publicity, would be able to brow-beat Parliament. As an ex-Minister responsible for the operations of the Tariff Board, I say that statement is not as exaggerated as some people might think. Further, if the Commission wished to delay or to withhold advice on measures needed to sustain industries, it could quite easily manipulate circumstances under its allembracing charter to carry out the most complicated and involved inquiries. The scope for opportunity to do this, if abused, either wittingly or unwittingly, would be enormous. 
We are told that this Commission is being established so that the principle of public scrutiny of the process of providing assistance to industries can be extended beyond the area to which it at present mainly applies - that is secondary industry - to the area of primary industry. But surely, the principle of public scrutiny has always applied. If it is claimed that it has not, that is an indictment of the Parliament, and of the Press, and of the Australian people. It is simply a subterfuge for the Prime Minister to claim that it is necessary to establish a huge new bureaucratic organisation, and it will be huge - to do what? - to extend the operation of the principle of public scrutiny. Again, I am very concerned that Government enterprises are to be exempt from the Commission's inquiries. Private industry will be subject to the Commission's inquiries, but not publicly-owned industry, of which we are seeing an increased amount and in which we will see further great increases. Publicly-owned industry competing against private industry will be free of the requirement that it justify any assistance which it might seek from the Government. Is this Parliament content to accept that kind of proposal? In his second reading speech on this Bill, the Prime Minister said the system of public inquiry and report which he wanted extended denoted a 'deliberate, orderly and widely accessible system of communication between the Government, industry and the wider public'. That is not what is going to happen. Communication between industry and the Government will be reduced, not expanded. The access which industry of all kinds has had to the Government through its contacts with Ministers, with members and with Government departments will, if it does not cease, at least become pointless. What will be the point of industry talking to the Government? All the Government will be doing will be rubber stamping the decisions of the Commission. Ask industry - not the Press - how effective it has been in influencing the Government about Tariff Board recommendations. Governments are very reluctant to be accused of being influenced by vested interests. 
What will happen when, say, the wheat industry, or any other industry, needs to renew its stabilisation arrangements - and that is due to happen fairly soon? Will the industry, as in the past, come and talk to the Minister for Primary Industry, with his Department, with the Bureau of Agricultural Economics? Will there be discussions between the Commonwealth and State governments and in the Australian Agricultural Council? There may be - but everything that is said or done will take place under the shadow of a huge remote, unresponsive Commission. Without disrespect, I say that industries will find themselves talking to wooden-faced bureaucrats instead of to Ministers who at least can be responsive to the approaches of industry and who can apply - as should be applied - other than the cold, hard economic criteria on which decisions will be made by bureaucrats who have no direct responsibility to the people. 
This Bill is so constructed that all communication will be between the Commission and the Prime Minister. This means that the Prime Minister will deliberately avoid the guidance and advice of his Ministerial colleagues. On page 86 of his report,  Sir John  Crawford indicates that all dealings should be directly between the Commission and the Prime Minister, or a Minister designated by him. It would be an advantage, he adds, if the go-between Minister was not directly involved with sectional economic interests. It is regrettable that people and departments who have experience and knowledge of industry should be branded 'sectional*. 
What this really means is that members of the Cabinet, backed by the expertise of departments such as the Departments of the Treasury, Primary Industry, Secondary Industry, Overseas Trade, Northern Development, Minerals and Energy and Tourism, will not be allowed to supervise what the Commission is up to in the structuring and the determination of policy. There will be just a cosy little arrangement between the Commission and the Prime Minister. 
Since the Prime Minister seems to be a sucker for a theory, and has shown himself a clumsy tyro in the handling of Australia's economic affairs, this can have only one of two results. One result is that the Commission will virtually be given an open cheque. The alternative result is to make the Prime Minister an economic dictator. That is strong language, but I use it to highlight the point that much of the knowledge and expertise of Government departments will be emasculated and ignored. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, what does the term allocation of national resources' mean when it appears in the criteria for the Commission's decisions? One thing it certainly includes is our most important resource - people. Questions of the most vital concern to people are going to be decided, not by the elected representatives of those people, but by a body not responsible to the people - a body set up by a Government which is not prepared to shoulder the responsibilities which should be its own. 
For that reason,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and for all the other reasons I have described, I oppose this BUI and the proposal contained in it. I believe that further consideration of the Bill should be deferred until the members of this House, and the people in industry - and indeed the community generally - are able to acquaint themselves of this Bill's full implications. Such a deferral would allow for the proposing of amendments which would at least tend to make the proposal more acceptable. I am realistic enough, of course, to accept that the Bill could be passed sooner or later. Nevertheless I say that this House should reject this Bill because the proposal it embodies will reduce the standing and authority of the Parliament; it will remove from the Government and the Parliament responsibilities which should be theirs, and it will place those responsibilities in the hands of an extremely powerful central planning authority which I believe will not have the capacity to make the kinds of decisions which will be in the interests of the majority of the Australian people - the kinds of decisions which only elected governments can and should make. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the House is of the opinion that the Bill should not be proceeded with until the autumn sittings in 1974 so that the deep study required to make possible an appreciation of the full implications of the Bill can occur and so that, should the Parliament then decide to support the Bill, it will be possible to place before the House amendments which will make the Bill more acceptable and the proposals it contains more likely to serve the interests of the Australian people.' 

 Mi 
 DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti) - Is the amendment seconded? 
As my colleague, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  has stated, an amendment has been moved to clause 22 which we see as one of the most obnoxious clauses in the Bill because it extends the charter of the proposed Industries Assistance Commission virtually to carry out any function of examination. Almost any pretext can be used for making a judgment on how industry resources will be used, how determinations will be made in the interests of consumers, how the environment may be affected or the public interest concerned. Whilst on a quick examination the Government's proposal may have superficial appeal, I believe it is frightening in its concept to imagine bureaucracy intruding into an area where a precise or mathematical judgment cannot be made. It should be the job of government or of the Parliament to exercise such judgment. Those who are legally responsible to the people should make the judgment, not some gigantic outside bureaucracy looking at factors and then making an economic recommendation. A whole range of factors should be considered, including sociological factors which could be the determining factors. The Commission will be taking into account not how an industry might succeed but what the impact may be on the environment, the employment situation or something else. 
Over the years the Tariff Board has carried out a most important, useful and valuable function in determining what should be the level of protection or level of assistance given to industry. Once the Board makes that judgment it must defend it by putting a case to the Government. A mathematical judgment can be defined or qualified but when a judgment is based merely on an assessment of intangible factors it is frightening that bureaucracy should make such judgment. Politics is concerned with socio-economics and I refuse to accept that bureaucrats can make these sorts of decisions which should be the combined judgment of elected members of the Parliament or of the Cabinet. It is only when one has the results of research and the advice and knowledge of many government departments, each making recommendations to its respective Minister, that one has a concerted opinion. From the multitude of opinions coming together one forms a concerted judgment on what should be done, but it is now proposed that a bureaucracy should make the judgments or express the opinions. 
We have heard that before. We have heard that the Coombs report contains only recommendations. If the Government wants to shelter behind the Commission it will seek to defend its actions by saying that this is merely the advice of some expert body. It is frightening to think that this Commission will be used as a device behind which a cowardly government can hide when it seeks to withdraw assistance from a particular industry. However this position is not simple. When there is a bureaucratic body of enormous prestige with enormous authority conferred upon it by the Government, it is very hard for a vested interest or a minority interest to change the decisions of that body because such interests are abused and accused of merely opposing the point of view because they are looking after their own interests. 
Politics is concerned with groups within the community. When such groups feel they are being ill-treated or unfairly treated they are able to make representations to members of the Parliament to try to have the situation changed. I have seen numbers of Tariff Board reports and recommendations presented to the Parliament. If the slightest interference is proposed to any industry charges are made by the Press and others that there is bias and that some favouritism is being conferred deliberately on a particular section of industry. If there is an organisation twice or even many times the size of the present Tariff Board I would challenge any member of the Parliament or any political party to refuse the advice of that body. If they do so it will be alleged that they are ridiculing the organisation and they will be accused by the Australian public of not accepting the advice of the body that has been set up. 
You have been a complete failure once, do not be a complete failure a second time. You laugh now like an idiot. 
I withraw it, but he deserved it because of his interjection. This measure, in which wide terms of reference are being given to the Commission, virtually enables an enormous body to be set up. If this Commission is to make more than an economic judgment, it must have a special section to look at the environmental factors. If it is to have a special section to look at the effects on consumers, if it is to have a special section to look at the employment situation or if it is to have whatever section it wishes for whatever particular function it wishes, it will be an enormous body. If this body is to be able to look at service industries, such as transport industries or whatever, there is no saying how great it will be. 
It is quite obvious that the Commission will be usurping the functions of many government departments. I do not believe that that is the method of governing for which the British parliamentary system stands. I believe the British parliamentary system means that a series of departments will be directly responsible to the Ministers, and the Ministers will be charged with the responsibility for seeing that certain points are put before the Government. A common point of view is put to the Cabinet which determines what the attitude will be. Now this new, great bureaucracy will collect together all the points of view not with any direct relationship to Ministers but only through the Prime Minister or his designated Minister. It appears that that designated Minister is not to have any direct involvement with sectional interests. 
Well, I am scared of it because I believe in the proper functioning of government and I believe Labor members who at times- 
The scrutiny is the last thing that concerns me. I believe that all legislation that comes before this Parliament needs to be scrutinised. It is an indictment of parties on either the Government side or the Opposition side if it is not scrutinised. It is an indictment of the Press if it does not look closely at legislation and expose its weak nesses. Ministers are not given their proper right of being able to express their points of view or the points of view of their ministries due to the provisions of this Bill. They will have to wait until this body formulates whatever policy or point of view it might have and makes recommendations to the Government, before they will be able to exercise a degree of influence in Cabinet. That would be possible only after the Commission had made public its report, with all the weight and the prestige of that body. It will be impossible for a government to buck it. 
All I can say is that this Commission is placing around the necks of whoever is in government the greatest albatross that I can imagine. It will bring down governments. If there seems to be a direct challenge between the Government and this new Commission, if the government of the day cannot see that it will run into this trouble, let the very problems which the Government has created for itself remain on its shoulders. It is not only for the government of the day that a problem is being created, but also for every member of this Parliament. If any member offers a challenge he will be accused of being biased or sectional. 
 I second the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  that this Government no longer possesses the confidence of this House because of the mismanagement of the nation and because of a number of other matters. I believe that the Leader of the Opposition has this morning devastated the Government with an annihilating list of issues on which it has completely fallen down in its duty to the Australian people. I listened to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  replying, not as we might think a Prime Minister would reply, but replying with all the overtones of a demagogue. It is quite obvious that the pressure of work is getting too much for him. Never have I seen the Prime Minister make so many hysterical outbursts as he did this morning. I can fully understand his concern and his desperation when he sees divisions between his Party and between the trade unions; when he sees the ineptitude of his own Ministers in handling their portfolios; when he sees every single by-election either on a State level or a Federal level moving against the Labor Party: and when he reads the public opinion polls which show the Labor Party going down lower and lower. It is no wonder that he stands up and makes a speech such as the one he made this morning. 
All the Prime Minister really did was to make smart aleck remarks, as a Queen's Counsel does when he has not a substantial case to present before the court. Only in the latter moments of the Prime Minister's speech did we hear him refer to the big issues facing this nation, but they were treated in a most frivolous manner. One such issue is inflation which is reaching a serious state for the nation. We heard little about our relationships with other countries, although the Prime Minister did make an imputation - I thought it was a disgraceful imputation - against the American people in relation to the problems that confront them at the present time. Here was another instance of a Prime Minister being prepared to make smart remarks and forgetting the very serious consequences which those remarks, have in our relations with a very great nation with which we want to retain very close relations. 
No amount of shuffling of the old dog-eared pack of ministerial cards will hide the fact that the Government is falling apart. It is crumbling, and this is the reason why we heard such a high pressure speech by the Prime Minister this morning. This Government has earned the contempt and the distrust of the Australian people for its inept management of the nation's affairs and the general state of uncertainty, worry and fear that it has created. 
The bright promise of the morning of 3 December of last year has faded. The rot which began to set in before the end of that month and which has accelerated throughout this year is now producing such a state of decay that this Parliament must express its concern. For the past 10 months we have seen the morning newspapers creating morning sickness, and now we seem to have given birth to a monstrous Government which is leading this nation to rack and ruin. 
We are all realistic enough to know that this motion will be defeated. We know that the Labor back benchers, despite their alarm at the disastrous activities of some of their Ministers, despite their horror at the scandals that have rocked this Parliament, despite their anger with some, of the Prime Minister's decisions which they have been forced to overturn, and despite their disgust with the Government's hopelessness in dealing with the savage inflation that is wracking this nation, will vote against this motion. Despite all those things, we know that not one member of the Labor Party will have sufficient moral courage to join in this censure motion against the Government which is doing a terrible job in the interests of this nation. Not one Labomember will show the conviction to stand up and admit that the Caucus system has dumped in this nation's lap a collection of Ministers who have seriously damaged Australia's standing in the eyes of many nations, who have so antagonised, insulted and sabotaged industry of all kinds that there is an almost complete breakdown in communications between industry and the Government, and who have alienated the goodwill which the Australian people were prepared to extend to a new and untried Government. 
The Ministry is presiding over the nation at a time when there is staggering inflation and the nation is suffering the crippling effects of strikes. What did the then Opposition say last year? It said that there would be fewer strikes under a Labor Government. What a joke that has turned out to be. It said: 'We will not be reducing expenditure on defence'. What a lie that has turned out to be. Last year Labor said: 'We will be bringing maturity to our foreign relations'. What a tragic reality has emerged. 
The week before last the Australian Country Party met to consider what its response should be to the tremendous feeling being expressed by country people across this nation that something should be done about this disastrous Government. Country people feel that they are under constant and growing attack from this Government. They have been kicked and bashed with a savagery and a viciousness never before directed against any section of the Australian community. What they fear most and what the Government does not understand is that when the time comes, as it surely will, when conditions in the rural sector get tough again, the real impact of the Labor Government's anti-rural bias will begin to bite. These people have turned to their political voice the Country Party with a plea to do something, to do anything, to get rid of this Government before it does any more damage. 
From our contacts with other sectors of the community with the people trying to buy land and build homes under the devastating policies of this Government; with manufacturing industry which provides the economic backbone of the economy but which is being bashed unmercifully by this antibusiness Government; with the mining industry which has seen the beginning of the process of seizure and confiscation which every socialist government employs; with people in all walks of life who are being hurt every day by uncontrolled inflation fed by Labor's own reckless spending our impression of the feelings of all these people is that 'it's time', time to call a halt, time to opt for responsibility instead of ratbaggery, time to seek sanity instead of socialist paranoia, time to get Australia back on the rails. This overwhelming wave of public bitterness and fear prompted my Party to tell the Australian people quite clearly and unequivocally where we stand. We believe that the Government deserves a resounding censure and that the people should be given an opportunity to express themselves at an election. The anger against the Government in country areas, and the abject failure to speak for their constituents of those Labor members who claim to do so, means that the Country Party would be very strongly supported. 
But it goes much deeper than that. We believe it will be bad for Australia if this Government is allowed to remain in office any longer. We believe that this is the view of vast numbers of Australians, including many of those who last December thought they would give Labor a chance. Labor has had its chance, and now the people have 'had' Labor. As I mentioned, every by-election, State and Federal, has demonstrated how concerned the people are with the present Government. If there is one thing that has become very clear in the last week or so, it is that the Government is scared stiff of an election. It is terrified out of its wits at the prospect of having to answer to the people for its actions after having so often and so shabbily failed to answer questions in this Parliament. The evidence of the Government's panic is the campaign of fear and hysteria being drummed up by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  and the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  They are naive enough to believe, apparently, that they can convince the Australian people of the existence of a gigantic and sinister plot to overthrow the Labor Government and place Australia under the control of nasty foreign multi-national corporations. How silly can they get? If this is the best they can do, it is no wonder this Government is in such a mess. What a pair the Government has chosen to lead this campaign the Parliament's clown princes! Fancy the two least credible people, with records aslong as your arm for wild, unsubstantiated, wrong and stupid statements, leading a campaign like this. 

 Mr Speaker, we could talk all day about the reasons why this Government should be thrown out of office. We could talk about the utter contempt which the Prime Minister shows towards the Parliament. We could talk about the disgraceful situation in which we have a Prime Minister who, through no fault of his own, cannot have his word accepted and trusted because his statements and his decisions are so often challenged and rejected and disowned by the Caucus which controls him. We could talk about the infamous ASIO affair. We could note the strained relations which this Prime Minister has provoked with our very good friends and allies, the United States of America, Great Britain, Singapore and Thailand. We could talk about his meddling with the exchange rate and with the interest rates. He treats these as trivial, of course not understanding the enormous impact that they have on the whole economic life of the country. We could talk at great length about the obsession of the Prime Minister to move towards central government and to bring to an end federalism, or at least to make the State governments nothing more than pawns in the hands of a socialist Prime Minister. We could even quote actions and statements displaying the ultimate objective of our socialist Prime Minister to make Australia a republic, to overturn our established British parliamentary system although it must be admitted that the Government is doing a pretty fair job of prostituting open and free debate in this Parliament by gagging and guillotining procedures. 
But let me concentrate for a moment on what I consider to be our most serious immediate economic problem - a problem reaching disastrous proportions - intiation, increasing costs and prices undermining the social welfare of ordinary Australians, families, young and old; inflation with its crippling costs bearing down on industry and services; inflation undermining the morals of the people and leading to inevitable restlessness and industrial troubles. This country is suffering the worst inflation for over 20 years and the situation is deteriorating. The Government quite obviously is incompetent and impotent in the face of this serious economic evil. 
From the last December quarter, the annual inflation rate accelerated from 4.8 per cent to 8.2 per cent in the March quarter, to 13.2 per cent in the June quarter and now to 14.4 per cent in the September quarter. We must reach a frightening figure well in excess of this - perhaps 18 per cent or 20 per cent in the December quarter. At the present rate we can take pride of place as the developed nation with the highest rate of inflation. That is something for this Government to be proud of, is it? If anyone objects to the inflation rate being stated in these terms, let us take the figures for the percentage increase each quarter on the same quarter in the previous year. That is the way the Treasurer works it out. But no matter what way you do it, the story is just about the same, and just as serious. The increases each quarter on this basis have been December 4.5 per cent; March 5.7 per cent; June 8.2 per cent and now in September 10.6 per cent. Nothing you can do with the figures can hide the fact that we are in an inflationary crisis. 
Of course we are yet to feel the effects of the Government's increased indirect taxes - petrol, postage, excise and so on - higher interest rates and the effects of the States having to raise their payroll tax to meet their increased costs. Over-full employment and competition for labour in the cities are increasing unit production costs. The unemployment in the country is costly and wasteful. Industrial stoppages are at a record level. Increasing costs are aggravating shortages of materials and goods. All of these things will be contributing to a worsening inflation situation in the immediate future. 
But the most serious thing of all is the attitude of the public, who have lost confidence in the Government's ability to tackle the problem seriously. How can a government have any honesty of purpose when on the one hand it is taking measures to control inflation, and on the other hand is pumping up government expenditure, bosting the size of the Public Service and using it as a pace-setter for wage increases and better conditions, such as a 35- hour week? How right the public is to show desperation when this Government moves into the New South Wales power generation dispute and supports the unions to help force a 35- hour week by using blackmail tactics. 
The law of expectation relating to inflation is now operating with full force. People are trying to protect themselves against further inflation. They are spending beyond their means to avoid paying future higher prices and they are investing in speculative areas such as land and buildings, trying to hedge against cost increases. Long term sound investment in the wealth-producing industries is being avoided. This whole economic mess will ultimately create great hardship and ruin for many people when the boom bursts. For this, the Government must stand condemned. But the greatest long term consequence of Australia's number one evil - inflation - is the way it is reducing the competitiveness of our export industries and of our domestic industries against imports. Rising costs to our export industries are as bad as a fall in export prices. For domestic industries, the effectiveness of tariff protection is reduced. It seems that the Government thinks that the present high commodity prices and general tight market situation for the supply of goods will last forever. This never has been and certainly never will be true. Already wool prices are weakening, as are metal prices. Next year we could see industry in a scissor-like situation with costs going up and prices coming down. This will produce an impossible situation for primary and mining industries and, likewise, for manufacturers. 
Certainly governments can offset some of the hardship caused to pensioners and government employees. But in the long run, the only secure basis for a nation to improve its lot is the productivity of its industries and the standard of living that is derived from increasing productivity. Yet everything this Government does seems to be directed towards reducing the incentive to produce and to lift productivity. Primary industry has been viciously attacked by this Government. At a time when the cry should be production, this Government is doing all it can to remove the incentives to production and productivity. At a time when there is an outcry against allegedly dear food, this Government is taking away incentives to grow more food, and thus help to keep prices down. The mining industry is being savaged by a marauding Minister tor Minerals and Energy, whose distorted view of what constitutes national interest is bringing severe damage to the industry. At a time when our critical shortage of energy resources is causing real concern, the Minister is acting in such a way as to frighten people away from investing in the search for new resources. We need to be doing all we can to find new deposits of gas and oil, yet the Minister is seizing the deposits we already have. Who is going to risk money in looking for further deposits and resources under this Government? 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, refers to the purchase by  Mr James  Mollison of the painting Blue Poles' for $1.3m. The painting was purchased for the National Gallery from a gallery in New York. I will not ask how the painting was made or about the merits of it, which I cannot comprehend. What I do ask the Prime Minister - I would be happy to receive an answer in writing if he is not able to give it now - is: How was this choice made? Was it solely in the hands of  Mr Mollison  or is there a panel or a board to make a judgment? Secondly who has the responsibility for an expenditure of this magnitude? Thirdly, could the Prime Minister make available all the information regarding the dealers and the agents involved in this purchase? 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister or perhaps the Minister for Labour. Can the Prime Minister tell the House when the national wage case will be heard and will he give the House an assurance that in the light of the serious inflation situation the advice which the Government gives to the court on this occasion will be significantly different from the advice it gave during the last case? 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I direct to the Minister for Overseas Trade a follow-up question to that asked by the honourable member for Darling. Is it a fact that the Queensland Sugar Board negotiated the first sale of sugar to China, then negotiated the second sale - not of bagged sugar but in bulk - and has recently been in the process of negotiating a long term contract with the Chinese? Is the Minister aware of a strong feeling within the sugar industry that the intervention of the Minister for Northern Development in this matter while the Board was engaged in negotiations has damaged and undermined the Board's negotiating position on quantities and prices? Does he not agree that the negotiation of commodity sales should be left to people who have had long and successful experience in this field, instead of a Minister muddying the waters by trying to get some political mileage out of a situation that was already well advanced by the Queensland Sugar Board? 
 Mr Speaker,  Australia faces a problem of unprecedented nature and proportions. The world is running out of petrol - not quickly, or to a predictable time table, but it is happening. In August this year the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Investment and Control was told by one of the world's biggest oil companies that in 1980 world oil requirements would be 80 per cent above 1970 requirements. In the decade to 1990, consumption would grow by a further 40 per cent. Yet in the same period, supplies from the United States, Canada, Europe and the small producers will increase relatively slightly. As a consequence, the world - and in particular the Western world - will become increasingly dependent on Middle East supplies, as well as supplies from communist countries. And this includes Australia. Only this week,  Mr Speaker,  I have learned how the oil weapon strategy being employed by the Middle East oil states threatens the ability of many Western nations to run their affairs on a normal basis. 
In Australia at present, we are producing about 70 per cent of our own requirements, but it is estimated that our demand for petroleum will grow from half a million barrels a day in 1970 to 2 million barrels a day by the year 2000 - a 300 per cent increase. By the end of this decade, production from our existing known oil reserves in Australia will be starting to run down. If we want to keep our 70 per cent rate of self-sufficiency, we will need to find another 10 billion barrels over the next 20 years, or 5 times our existing discoveries to date. If we aim at 100 per cent self-sufficiency, we will need to find another 4 billion barrels again. We have 4 choices: Firstly, make drastic efforts to encourage the exploration for and the development of new reserves; secondly, steadily increase our dependence on progressively dearer and scarcer overseas supplies; thirdly, drastically restrict our consumption and, by inference, our pattern of economic growth; and fourthly, develop alternative energy sources. Perhaps the most unacceptable alternative would be to allow our dependence on overseas supplies to increase, with a consequent loss of independence in foreign policy and a growing economic reliance on a politically unstable source of supply. Facing this situation, and in view of its closeness, logic should compel considerable intensification of our exploration efforts. It should also compel a comprehensive effort to investigate fully our future energy requirements and the energy sources that will be necessary to meet them adequately. 
There is cause for real concern in the approach of this Government to the coming crisis. We could easily find ourselves in a pitiful state as a result of the Government's mismanagement and lack of foresight. Since he came to office, the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  has been the  Dr Jekyll  and  Mr Hyde  of the energy industry. On the one hand, with statesmanlike foresight he stands in this Parliament and describes the significance of the impending energy problem. I agree with his assessment. But, on the other hand, he is subjecting our energy industries to an unrelenting, confusing, disruptive and destructive attack. To find the oil we need over the next 2 decades there will have to be an average exploration expenditure per year in Australia of around $200m. This is about twice the current level of spending. But, since this Government came to office, energy policies have been introduced which can do nothing but discourage exploration and which therefore are to the detriment of the real interests of this nation. The real interests of this nation lie not in policies of instinctive, unthinking nationalism, or in policies that con fuse foreign ownership with foreign control; the real energy interests of this nation lie in the Government's encouraging and supervising a systematic exploration program to meet the challenge raised by the coming world energy shortage. 
Yet, since December 1972 the Government has done the following things which are reacting adversely on our national interest: It has abolished income tax concessions to capital subscribers to oil and mineral companies. This concession was a most valuable incentive for investment in the energy industries. The petroleum search subsidy is to be abandoned next June. There is now a requirement that one-third of overseas capital inflow be deposited with the Reserve Bank, interest-free. This is at a time when available Australian capital is restricted by a tight money market and high interest rates. The net result of these measures has been a serious loss of confidence in the energy industries. Australia's industry leaders are apprehensive over Government policy. They look in vain for a consistent thread through the tangled fabric of contradictory ministerial statements and oblique indications of intention. The Minister for Minerals and Energy has an intuitive idea of what he wants, but the gaps of detail are frighteningly wide. 

 Mr Vale, the Managing Director of Australian Minerals Economics Pty Ltd, said on 24 October that finance for exploration in Australia will in the near term be restrictive, and this position will keep activity at a low level. At present there are 12 drilling rigs active in Australia - and 19 inactive. The number of active rigs is down 30 per cent on the same time last year; and the full impact of the Government's policies is yet to be felt. We can now expect a decline in exploration activity at a time when it should be intensified. I am informed that many key personnel in minerals and energy companies are leaving Australia. Many of these key operators are in the 30 years to 40 years age bracket. They represent years of accumulated knowledge and skill. As I say, they are starting to leave Australia. A whole range of companies are reducing the scope of their operations and some are even contemplating withdrawing from Australia. 

 Mr Speaker, the solution of the Minister for Minerals and Energy to the prospective energy problems rests, apparently, on natural gas. The Minister proposes to pipe gas from wells on the North-West Shelf, which are in up to 600 feet of water offshore, to the mainland at an estimated cost of $2 10m to $2 12m. It should be clearly realised that such proposals are on the threshhold of technology. Because of this, cost estimates could be extremely inaccurate. The cost could be $3 00m, $400m or even $500m. No one can say for sure. This natural gas will be processed - using a stabilisation plant presumably near Dampier or Broome - into LPG or liquid gas, with a dry methane gas residue. From what I can gather - and it is difficult to gather facts about the Minister's intentions - this LPG will in turn be processed by a refinery into motor spirit. This process is a complex one, and the costs are quite indefinite. The dry methane gas is then to be transported by pipeline to link up with the Palm Valley gas field in Western Australia. From there it will link up with Perth, Kalgoorlie and the Gidgealpa field for distribution to the eastern seaboard. 
This seems on face value a noble project. But on a closer examination,  Mr Speaker,  it is probably the most loosely-based, inadequatelycosted, least-explained and leastthoughtthrough commitment of taxpayers' money in the history of this nation. The Minister for Minerals and Energy proposes to transfer massive quantities of natural gas from the North-West Shelf through a pipeline of unknown dimensions, capacity and cost to supply the already, adequately-supplied market at an unknown price and unknown cost to the taxpayer. 
As far as I can establish, there has been no comprehensive feasibility or cost-benefit analysis of this entire project. Leading industry experts cannot tell me what the costs are likely to be, yet the Minister tosses figures around with assurance. The Minister also apparently plans to use this gas to produce petro-chemicals. We do not know how much petro-chemical will be produced, the extent of the market for it, or how much it will cost. We do not know how the motor spirit is to be transported to the eastern seaboard. 
Expert opinion is that the only real answer to our future shortage of petroleum products is by the discovery of major crude oil fields. The Minister says that his project will meet our crisis. It will not. The Australian Petroleum Exploration Association has estimated that over the 1980 to 1990 decade, 32 trillion cubic feet of natural gas would need to be produced to provide sufficient gas liquids to meet our motor spirit shortfall. Yet the total estimated capacity of the NorthWest. Shelf is 23 trillion cubic feet. Even if the natural gas was available, it could not be produced quickly enough to meet the necessary timetable. There are technical limits to the rate of extraction. To attempt to use our natural gas reserves so quickly would be, to use the Minister's own words, a 'rape of the North-West Shelf. At best, the Minister's proposal must be looked at as a tentative one that may partially meet some of our future requirements. It cannot be seen as a substitute for a stepped-up exploration effort. Unless the Government creates a climate in which exploration can flourish, we are in trouble. Even then we may be in trouble if the oil is simply not there. We need to know if it is not there as much as we need to know if it is there. 
While the Minister talks, and while he dreams, a long-nurtured exploration industry withers. He fails to appreciate that confidence in the future is a vital and necessary condition for exploration activities. Since the beginning of this year, the market share value of the oil exploration group of companies on the Sydney Stock Exchange has fallen from $547m to $259m. The index of fuel and power industry shares has fallen from 238 in January to 176 on 1 November. To put it another way, investors in oil exploration companies on the Sydney Stock Exchange have lost about $300m in the value of shares in the 10 months of this year. It is quite obvious to me that there is very much a crisis of confidence in the industry. This crisis is caused not only by confusion over present policy, but by uncertainty over future policy. The consequences for the future if something is not done are well illustrated in western Europe's current experiences. Western Europe is over the Middle East oil barrel. Its foreign policy is compromised, and its economy is vulnerable to economic ringbarking. Dutch motorists have been prohibited from driving on Sundays. British airlines have planned to cut back air services by 10 per cent. Over the next two or three decades it is highly probable that the price of international petroleum will rise drastically. Since January 1971 the price of Arab light crude has doubled; it will doubtless rise still further. 
What I ask the Minister to do is set up a committee of representatives of Federal and State governments, - as well as industry, to undertake a comprehensive public examination of the nature and extent of Australia's future energy requirements and sources. Such a committee should report on the most appropriate methods of meeting the situation, including alternative energy sources which may need to be encouraged. Depending on the outcome of the committee's deliberations, it might then be necessary for the Government to set guidelines for minimum petroleum stocks in Australia to meet any future emergency situation. Again, without prejudging the committee's findings, consideration might need to be given by State and Federal governments to appropriate means of curbing unnecessary and wasteful consumption of petroleum in Australia.  Mr Speaker,  I make this contructive suggestion in the hope that the Minister will give it serious consideration. lt just is not good enough for the Minister to tell us that he knows all about our energy situation. The energy industries do not know and the Australian people certainly do not know. What is clear to all of us is that we are facing a real crisis of unknown proportions. The time to start equipping ourselves to cope with that crisis is now. To date this Government, and this Minister, have not shown that they have the capacity to do so. 
Sitting suspended from 12.54 to 2.15 p.m. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
In the event of local government being represented on the Loan Council, how will the representatives be selected. 
Will the Loan Council approve allocations to the same regional groupings as proposed under the Grants Commission legislation. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
What stage has been reached in the formation and approval of regional local government groupings as a means of providing assistance through the Grants Commission. 
Does the Minister intend to provide a separate or distinct budget for non-urban local government regional bodies for utilisation by the Grants Commission; if so, what proportion of the total funds will be allocated to non-urban bodies. 
I want to speak for a few moments to the Supply Bill (No. 3) 1973. In essence, it is not unusual that at times the estimates that have been prepared by the Department of the Treasury do not meet up to expectations and it has been necessary to introduce a further Supply Bill to meet certain exigencies. In this instance $35m is needed urgently before the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) is passed by the Parliament so that the necessary finance is available for the following 6-month period. I question why consideration of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) is running so late. Maybe I am a little cynical when I suggest that it is being delayed deliberately so that it cannot be challenged at a time which would enable the Government to have an election with the proposed referendum to be held on 8 December. Honourable members are aware that a certain time has to be provided for election preparations. If the Appropriation Bil.1, is delayed sufficiently it will be quite impossible to have an election with the referendum on 8 December. Perhaps that is not the reason why the Appropriation Bill is being delayed, but I must question whether it is the reason. 
The reason for the introduction of this Bill, as the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has pointed out, is to meet the substantial increases in the rates of pay, the restructuring of departments, the creation of new departments and the increased tempo of activity. I think all honourable members will agree that there is no doubt that the increased tempo is required, but I think it is also one of the things which is causing a good deal of concern in the community. We are seeing a rapid growth of the Commonwealth Public Service. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said that the rate of growth of the Commonwealth Public Service for 1973- 74 will be only 5 per cent. I point out that this is in excess of the growth rate of the private sector of the community, which is only approximately 3 to 3i per cent. If a 5 per cent growth rate is maintained for a period of 5 years it will mean virtually a 50 per cent increase in the size of the Commonwealth Public Service. People are worried about the increasing expenditure on Government administration and they are concerned about the fact that the Commonwealth Public Service appears to be the pace setter for fixing wages and conditions for the rest of the community. We live in an economic situation of serious inflation, and it ill behoves the Government to say that it is serious about controlling inflation when the Commonwealth Public Service is being used as a pace setter for the rest of the community. Conditions that are awarded to the Public Service flow on and have a considerable impact on outside industry. Honourable members have referred to the increased size of the Public Service. There is no area where the increase has been more dramatic than in the area of the Second Division officers. In the 13 month period from June 1972 to 30 July this year - the period for which the latest figures are available - the number of Second Division officers has increased from 876 to 1,121. In other words, in 13 months there has been an increase of 28 per cent in the number of these very highly paid officers of Commonwealth departments. If one looks at certain departments it will be seen, for example, that in the new Department of Urban and Regional Development the number of Second Division officers has increased in that period from nil to 28; the number in the Department of Minerals and Energy has increased from 11 to 25; the number in the Prime Minister's Department has increased from 25 to 38 and in the Department of Social Security the number of Second Division officers has increased from 15 to 28. 
But we hear about things which are even more alarming than that performance. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has spoken of the need to have 200 Second Division officers by the end of next year and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  speaks in terms of about 50 Second Division officers for his Department alone. If it finished at Second Division officers we might not feel so alarmed. But Parkinson's law applies and for every Second Division officer there are junior officers and there have to be stenographers. This is the reason why we have this enormous growth in expenditure and in the size of Commonwealth departments. We must question whether it is really necessary to have as many government departments as there are today. There are about 38 departments, which is an increase of ten or twelve since this Government came to office. This has created many more job opportunities. We wonder why it is necessary to have, for instance, a Department of Northern Development when most of the work seems to be done by the Department of Primary Industry, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics or by the Department of Minerals and Energy. 
There is redundancy. There does appear to be a degree of extravagance and this seems to be wasteful. No doubt this is the reason why the Treasurer has found it necessary to bring in a third Appropriation Bill to meet his additional commitments. It is true that not all the expenditure is due to the increased size in the Public Service alone. The point I want to make is that this Government must become more cautious to ensure that it does not increase the impact of the public sector on the economy as a whole, as there is a limit to the amount which the private sector can take. 
I should like to enter this discussion of the estimates for the Department of Northern Development. It is difficult to debate the activities of the Ministry of Northern Development. To do so, would be to debate intentions, aspirations and inquiries. It is not a debate on activities because as far as we can see there has been very little activity in the Department of Northern Development. What one can say about the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  since 2 December 1972 is that his only real visible activity has been to issue approximately 33 Press statements - roughly 3 a month. What one can say about the Department of Northern Development is very limited because the first Bill that the Minister has introduced to the House has only now been put on the notice paper. That Bill is to provide some money for a weir. 
What can one say about his influence on Cabinet thinking and decisions? On 24 August 1972 the present Minister for Northern Development said: 
It must be remembered that the burden of any appreciation of the Australian dollar would fall more harshly on Australian companies than foreign owned companies. It is a fact of life that it is most difficult to write contracts for Australian exports in the mineral field and the primary industry field in Australian dollars. 
He went on: 
Appreciation of the Australian dollar, in my opinion, is not the answer to Australia's inflationary problems. 
Despite his views, the Australian dollar has been extensively revalued. What efforts did he make to prevent this happening? What does he have to say about today's news that Australia has lost a major northern development project because of the policies of this Government? Because of the revaluation of the Aus tralian dollar we have lost a huge alumina refinery planned for Weipa - a project valued at $300m or more. Did the Minister, before members of his Cabinet, use the same brave words that he used when he was a private member? Here is a giant project to which many people have been looking to augment the development of the north. Now we have lost that project apparently because the Government does not share the views of the Minister for Northern Development, or the Minister has been unable to convince the Government that his views are correct or worth listening to. Despite this Minister's views on the writing of minerals contracts, the Minister for Minerals and Energy criticises such contracts being writen in United States dollars and calls our mining industry leaders hillbillies and mugs. Is he suggesting that the same description should be applied to this Minister? The Minister for Northern Development said in this place on 14 September 1972 that he wanted to see better aircraft services in Queensland particularly in the outback areas of that State. But what has happened?  His  Government is reducing aircraft services and making it more expensive for those airline companies which can continue to operate. Is this a real contribution to northern development? 
On 27 July 1973 the Minister for Northern Development issued a Press statement calling on cattlemen to give full support to the campaign to rid herds of tuberculosis and brucellosis. In that statement the Minister said that the Australian Government had recently approved increased finance over the next 2 years to eradicate brucellosis and tubercolosis, His statement concluded on the comforting note: 
This was an encouragement to make cattlemen aware of the importance that Australia placed on their growing industries. 
Where was the Minister when the Government decided that the industry would have to pay for the program itself. How much has the revaluation of the currency cost our Australian beef industry and our veal exporters? Most of the cattle producers in northern Australia export to United States markets because those markets accept a lower quality of beef. It is MX type meat. This year we are exporting to the United States market alone something like $352m worth of beef. But had there not been any revaluation and had they been able to claim the difference which has subsequently been brought about by revaluation - the difference is something like 25 per cent as against the United States dollar - there would have been $80m to $90m more in the pockets of Australian beef producers who sold beef on the United States market alone, not considering other markets in the world. The alteration to the United States market has penalised beef producers in northern Australia very severely. The Minister for Northern Development has previously stated that this would have a severe effect on our beef producers, yet he is prepared to sit back and let this Government take this sort of action against this industry. However, I give him due credit because prior to becoming a member of this Parliament he served as a member of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics trying to foster the development of this industry in the north. But we cannot say now that the Government with which he is associated and the policies that he has to pursue are really helping the cattle industry in northern Australia because cattle producers are being asked to pay the full cost of inspection services for cattle which are slaughtered in the campaign against tuberculosis and brucellosis, and for the harsh economic consequences of the Government's realignment of currency policies. 
We were told that the Minister has begun studies on the industrialisation of the Bowen basin region and the Pilbara region, but what has he actually done to help develop the north? Will fiddling with the exchange rate really help the north? I have pointed out the effect on the development of an alumina refinery and on the cattle industry. Will the policies of the Minister for Minerals and Energy help develop the north, particularly the open cut coal fields in Queensland? Will the restrictions, on capital inflow into the mineral industry help develop the north? The Minister announced some time ago that a study group would investigate the industrialisation of the Pilbara region but since then the Minister for Minerals and Energy has effectively preempted that study. The Minister for Minerals and Energy proposes a petro-chemical com-, plex, a gas stabilisation plant and a refinery. What part has the Minister for Northern Development played in these considerations? What liaison occurs between him and the Minister for Minerals and Energy when that Minister announced this grandiose scheme for the north-west shelf? On 30 July this year the Minister persuaded Qantas Airways Ltd to serve Australian rum, but what has he really done to help northern development? That was the essence of one of his 33 statements during the year. There has been one Bill and 33 statements, one persuading Qantas to serve Australian rum. How many times has the newly established Northern Development Council met? How many programs is it considering? What about the absurdity of the situation for which it is now recognised? To quote from the title of a famous book, it is The Northern Myth'. 
We have heard a good deal about sugar sales to China. These are welcomed but I think it is necessary to keep it all in perspective because we are selling 4 times as much sugar to the United States as we are likely to be selling to China under this new long term contract, and we are selling 10 times as much sugar to Japan. I would welcome as much effort being put into a long term contract for the sale of sugar to Japan as has been done in respect to China. I think that the Minister for Primary Industries in Queensland made the point well when he said that this Minister should not be trying to play so much political football with the sugar industry in claiming all the credit while the Queensland Sugar Board has been responsible for a good deal of thees negotiations over the past two or three years. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr MacKellar)  - Order! The right honourable members time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will be aware of a letter which the Minister for Health wrote to the Australian Sugar Producers Association in which he said that sugar is a poison. I ask: Does the Prime Minister know that the Minister wrote another letter to another organisation - the Proprietary Sugar Millers Association Pty Ltd - in which he made some remarkably ill-informed comments on industry methods, efficiency, organisation, research and promotion, in which he repeated in part his charges about the effects of sugar on health and in which he made a not very thinly veiled threat to cause some problems for the industry? Will the Prime Minister explain how the Australian people should distinguish between a Minister's personal views and expressions of the Government's official views? Does it not cause a great deal of confusion when a Minister puts his personal views, however sincere they might be even though 'badly misinformed, in letters written on his official letterhead as a Minister? 
The Government's action in seeking to apply the guillotine, especially on a question dealing with an alteration to the Constitution, is deplorable. As the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  said, our national Parliament is becoming a farce when debate on such an important issue is limited and members are denied the opportunity of expressing their opinion on it. I could not agree with him more wholeheartedly. We are seeing a doctrinaire approach to the management of this Parliament by this present Government such as we have never seen before. It is not good enough, and the Opposition will not take it, nor will the Aus.tralion people take it. We saw the prices and wages referendum Bills forced through this House with such indignity that, on that ground alone, I do not believe that the people of Australia ought to accept the proposals in those Bills when they are put to them. 
The national Parliament has not had time to debate and to examine the questions so that honourable members in their turn can make their own rightful judgment on how they should vote. If the Government thinks it can use bulldozer tactics in this Parliament and then obtain the support of the Australian people it will be very surprised. Right across this nation every member of the Opposition will say to the people: 'We did not even have time to discuss the matter. The Government is forcing the public now to make a judgment. There is only one action to be taken in those circumstances and that is to play safe and reject the proposals.' If the Government thinks it can apply these jack boot principles on a matter of great importance it is wrong. This is not just a normal procedural matter of the House. This is a proposal to change the Constitution of the nation and the future destiny of our children and our grandchildren. Here is the Government, in a matter of minutes, wanting to use the procedures of Parliament to enable the people to make a decision when they have not all the facts before them. If these are the sorts of tactics the Government wants to play, we can play it rough on this side of the House too. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Would the implementation of a single national statutory marketing authority be of economic benefit to the Australian export apple and pear industry in comparison with present marketing procedures. 
If such an authority is justifiable on technical grounds, on what basis has the Minister rejected the request from the Tasmanian Government that the Australian Government be instrumental in establishing such an authority on a national basis. 
If it is not possible for the Australian Government to support the establishment of a national authority, will the Government support the establishment of such an organisation for the Tasmanian industry. 
Does the Prime Minister agree that legislation designed to eventually change the Australian  Constiution  is legislation of considerable significance and that if the Australian people are to be asked to express an informed and considered view on the proposals to change the Constitution, the Parliament should have adequate time to debate the legislation? Was the Prime Minister aware of or was he party to the dictatorial decision of the Leader of the House to apply the guillotine to the 3 Constitution Alteration Bills now before the Parliament? Will the Prime Minister, in the interest of ensuring that the Australian people are allowed to be made aware of the great ramifications of the 2 Bills still under discussion in this House, reconsider, even at this late stage, the decision to use the guillotine, recognising that the matter involves much more than the simple proposition put to us by the Leader of the House that all we are being asked to do is to let the people decide? Will the Prime Minister  accept my assurance that the members of my Party, provided reasonable time is made available to them to place their view on these important matters before the House, will co-operate with the Government in dealing with. these 2 Bills as expeditiously as possible, but the Opposition will not accept the prostitution of the workings of this Parliament by the application of the guillotine on such an important issue? 
I want to bring to the notice of the Parliament another shocking abuse of taxpayers' money for the benefit of the Australian Labor Party. The facilities of Parliament and the privileges of a Minister have been abused in this case to promote further the Australian Labor Party in the New South Wales State election. A few minutes ago I received a letter from a person from the electorate of Monaro asking me who is paying for a circular letter which has been sent to that person as a constituent of that electorate. The letter has been sent by the Minister for Health, signed 'Doug Everingham', written on ministerial paper with the Commonwealth crest at the top and the words Minister for Health'. It is soliciting the support of electors in that electorate to vote for the New South Wales Labor Party. The first 2 paragraphs read as follows: 
On 17 November you will be asked to vote for the person who will represent you in the State Parliament for the next 3 years. I am writing to ask that on that day you make a choice in favour of Margaret Gleeson, the ALP candidate for Monaro. 
Margaret, a former officer of my Department, is an enthusiastic and intelligent young woman with a sound understanding of people and their problems. I think she will make an excellent representative for the people of Monaro. 
And so it goes on. I do not know who is paying for this letter or for its postage. I know that it is on official notepaper. To print this letter and to send it out to every constituent of Monaro would cost the taxpayers at least $2,000. In how many electorates in New South Wales is this being done? If this can be done in a State election, goodness knows what will be done in a Federal House of Representatives election or a Senate election where Ministers have unlimited use of departmental facilities and officers and a stamp allowance on which there is no limit. 
 The use of the guillotine to force this legislation through this House is possibly the most despicable display of arrogance that we have seen by the Government and is in complete contempt of the functions of the Opposition to be able to expose the fallacies of the arguments which the Government is using to substantiate its case. It appears that the Government hopes that this referendum question will be passed because of the ignorance of the people in not knowing the full facts; in other words, it is to be approval by stealth. If Parliament is to act effectively it must be used as a sounding board for points of view. When Parliament does not operate freely and effectively the most important ingredient of democracy -  that is, free speech and liberty - is replaced by bullying and tyranny. 
One cannot help but react strongly to the storm-trooper tactics that are being used by the Government on this and another 2 constitutional issues. Nothing is more fundamental to our parliamentary system and to our way of life than the very great questions that are now being brought before this Parliament and that will eventually be put before the Australian people. They are issues which took our founding fathers years to decide upon. They have been in operation for 72 years. Now we have the farce of the Government trying to force amendments to them through this chamber in a matter of hours. The Government is using the most repressive parliamentary procedures that it has at its disposal. This important question is being forced through this House in a debate limited to 2 hours. That means that the Opposition will have only one hour in which to put its case. Only 15 minutes have been set aside to debate the Bill in the Committee stage. Democracy is under challenge. We see a power hungry socialist Government in operation. It is trying to stifle free speech and the operations of this Parliament. 
For a Prime Minister so dedicated to the principle of one vote one value as the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is, it is remarkable that he has introduced a Bill which will take us further away from that principle than we are now. The fact that the Prime Minister has done this must throw into question his motives and the genuineness of his Government's attitude to the electoral system. The explanation is that when political gain and expediency come in one door attachments to so-called basic principles go out the other. In his second reading speech the Prime Minister spoke of writing into the Constitution the principle of substantial equality of electoral divisions for all parliaments of Australia. Just what right or justification the Prime Minister has to tell the States what they must do escapes me; but I will come back to that question in a moment. 
Earlier this year the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  introduced legislation providing for what he saw as equal electoral divisions, even though he proposed a 10 per cent tolerance either side of the quota. The Parliament rejected that proposal, as it should have. The clear intention of the Government is, by one means or another, to minimise the representational strength of country areas. Having failed to do it with the Commonwealth Electoral Bill the Government is now resorting to another tactic. If it felt so strongly about this issue before, why has it been ducking the issue? Why has it not taken the issue to the people? The grounds exist for a double dissolution to be sought. But no. This new attack on the voting system, even more so than the earlier one, is designed to give the Labor Party a political advantage. No doubt the devious ingenuity of the Minister for fiddling with the electoral system has resulted in his discovering yet another means that is even better than his previous one of entrenching the Labor Party in office. 
This time the Prime Minister is not simply asking the Parliament to change the law to the advantage of the Labor Party. This time he wants the Parliament to ask the Australian people as a whole to approve at a referendum a change in the Australian Constitution to give an advantage to the Labor Party. There seems to be no limit to the lengths to which the Labor Party will go to try to tamper with the electoral laws in order to help itself. And this time it is even prepared to throw overboard and move right away from a principle which it has always championed and demanded should be applied to the electoral system. 
May I quote a gentleman well known to honourable members as an expert in electoral matters,  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras of the Australian National University. He states: 
I am firmly of the belief that redistribution conducted in accordance with the provisions of  Mr Daly's  Bill- 
This Bill before us -  - would result in the greatest departure from the principle of one vote - one value ever seen in the history of Australian House of Representatives elections. 
For many years, the Labor Party has claimed that in the absence of one vote one value, country people in Australia have enjoyed an unfair voting strength against the people of the city. This allegation has been answered many times, and the special representational difficulties of large, sparse electorates have been pointed out. 
But what is being put to us now? We are being asked to support a proposal which would result in the votes of urban workingclass people, for want of a better term, having the highest value; the votes of country people having a lesser value; and the votes of urban middle-class electors having the lowest value. The reasons for the Labor Party wanting to bring about this situation should not be very difficult to discern. Why is it that the proposal put forward by the Prime Minister would bring serious inequities and unfairness to the voting system? In some areas, particularly in the capital cities, there are large concentrations of unnaturalised migrants. The Prime Minister wants the electors in such areas to have proxy votes for the people who are ineligible to vote. In many city suburbs there are large numbers of children. Again, the Prime Minister wants the parents to have proxy votes on behalf of their children. 
As we all know, population figures taken from the census returns would be very quickly out of date, whereas the electoral rolls are kept up to date all the time. The census does not always show where a person lives, but where that person happens to be on a particular night. As a result, thousands of country people, or people from other cities, or even from overseas, would be counted for inclusion in the population of electorates. Other countries do conduct redistributions on the basis of population, rather than on voters simply because they do not have electoral rolls like ours. We do not need to use an unfair, unbalanced system. We have the most advanced system of keeping up to date electoral rolls of any country. We have led the world in the development of permanent electoral officers and of the maintenance of permanent and regular electoral rolls. 
If we look at some figures relating to various electorates, we will soon see what the Labor Party's real motives are. For example, take the electorate of Grayndler. We already know it is the smallest electorate, and therefore its representative in this House, who is the Minister for Services and Property, is quite unable as he so often demonstrates, to have any understanding of the problems of those members representing large electorates. But the interesting thing is that only 47 per cent of the people in Grayndler are on the electoral roll. Having seen the kind of member they have, it is not surprising that they are discouraged from wanting to put their name on the electoral roll. But we can easily see what the Government has in mind. 
In the electorate of Sydney,  Mr Speaker,  you will be interested to learn that only 45 per cent or 46 per cent of the people are on the electoral roll. This means, of course, that if the Prime Minister's proposal had applied in 1969, and electorates had equal populations, one vote in Sydney would have been worth 1.7 votes in the electorate of Robertson for example. This is a far bigger departure from one vote one value than actually occurred in 1969. Yet this is what the Prime Minister - this great champion and protector of the sacred law of one vote one value - wants the Australian people to approve. This must be the greatest display of cynicism and political opportunism this country has ever seen. Using the same kind of example in Melbourne, one vote in the electorate of Melbourne would have been worth 1.77 votes in Diamond Valley - an even bigger departure from one vote one value than would have occurred in New South Wales in 1969. 
The abandoning of principle by the Labor Party becomes even clearer if we look more closely at the situation which would have applied in 1969 if the Prime Minister's proposal had been operative then. If New South Wales electorates had had equal populations, in Grayndler it is estimated there would have been 44,125 electors on the roll instead of the 58,782 who actually were on it. In 1969, there were 43,409 voters actually enrolled in Darling, compared with 62,087 in Parramatta. This is the kind of thing that has caused such long and agonised wailing from the Labor Party, and such indignation at the so-called prostitution of our electoral laws for political advantage. Yet if the Prime Minister's proposal had applied in 1969, there would have been, for example in Sydney, 42,999 voters on the roll, and 67,878 in Robertson - a far greater prostitution of the electoral laws than the Labor Party has always claimed already exists. In Victoria in 1969 there were 45,457 voters in Mallee and 58,776 in Batman. But the Prime Minister, under his proposal, would have seen to it that there were 38,788 voters in Melbourne, for example, and 64,709 in Diamond Valley. These illustrations serve to completely destroy any claim the Labor Party has ever had to really stand for the principle of one vote one value. 

 Mr Mackerras, whom I quoted earlier, has done a very interesting examination of the party advantage which would be gained under the method proposed toy the Prime Minister. In Victoria, for example, a table showing the advantage or lack of it that would have been gained at the 1969 election if electorates had been drawn on a population basis shows the greatest advantage going first to 8 Labor seats, then a lesser advantage, or disadvantage, to a mixture of seats consisting of 5 Country Party, 7 Liberal and 3 Labor - and then the least advantage, and in fact an increasing disadvantage, going to 11 Liberal seats. If any honourable member has any remaining doubts about the Prime Minister's motives, surely these examples will dispel them. 
Coming back to the proposal to insert a new section into the Constitution dealing with the election of members of State parliaments, I must say that I find it quite remarkable that the Prime Minister is so filled with a sense of power that he has taken it upon himself to initiate this matter. This certainly accords with his well-known views on the powers and the rights of the Commonwealth, and on the role of the States. It must seem odd, even to a layman, that the Prime Minister feels it is open to him to initiate action which he intends should lead to the States being told by him in effect how their Parliaments should be elected. I think the States would be quite entitled to tell the Prime Minister to go and mind his own business. I certainly believe that this proposal is arguable as to its correctness under the Constitution, and further I should be very surprised if the States did not challenge it in the High Court. If they did not do so, they could well live to rue the day when they allowed the Prime Minister's unbridled arrogance to go unchallenged. 
What the Prime Minister is proposing, it seems to me, raises questions of the most fundamental importance for the federal system. Surely nothing is more central to the authority of the States than the methods of election of the Parliaments of the States. Yet here we have the Prime Minister presuming to tell the States that they must change the methods they now use to elect members to their Houses of Parliament - methods which are laid down in the States' own Constitutions. We should remember that the Constitution came into existence as a result of each State, or the people of each State, agreeing to unite in a Commonwealth under the Constitution. The Commonwealth was the creation of the States. They created the Commonwealth, and they surrendered to the Commonwealth many powers which formerly they had exercised. But the Prime Minister is not content with the existing situation. Not only does he want new powers written into the Constitution dealing with federal powers to control prices and incomes, but he now wants also a whole new section written into the Constitution directing the States as to how they shall manage their parliamentary elections. This strikes at the very heart of the States' authority. Of course, the Prime Minister will say that he is merely proposing that the Australian people be asked to decide whether his intentions should be given effect. But before that happens this Parliament is being asked to decide its attitude, and in my opinion this Parliament should reject outright the over-riding of States' rights which the Prime Minister's proposal represents. 
I think we should look closely at section 106 of the Constitution which provides that the Constitution of each State shall continue as at the establishment of the Commonwealth 'sub ject to this Constitution' - that is, the Commonwealth Constitution - until altered in accordance with the State Constitution. It seems to me that if the Prime Minister's proposal purports to bring about changes in State Constitutions, then it runs counter to the Commonwealth Constitution. If the words subject to this Constitution' in section 106 mean the Constitution as passed into law in 1900, then the Prime Minister cannot use the amending power of section 128 to cut down the rights of the states under section 106 simply by the device of inserting a new section called 106a. It is interesting to note that  Sir Owen  Dixon has referred to the Constitution providing for the 'Independence from Federal control of the State in the discharge of its functions'. He also supported the proposition that the legislative powers of the Commonwealth could not 'be used directly to deprive another Government of powers or authority committed to it or restrain that Government in their exercise .  . .'. (Extension  of  time granted.) 

 Sir Owen Dixon also pointed out that Parliament could not deal with a State as if it were legislating for a person. He said: 
It may be that section 106 provides the restraint upon legislative power over the States which differentiates it from power over the subject, and that no law of the Commonwealth can impair or affect the Constitution of a State. 
It seems to me that the Prime Minister wants this Parliament to pass laws which will, if approved later by the people, affect in the most fundamental way the Constitutions of the States. I believe that this proposal runs counter to the provisions of the Constitution, and certainly to the spirit of the Constitution. I believe the States should very carefully consider the attack which the Prime Minister clearly is making on their authority and I think their study of this proposal could well lead them to the conclusion that it demands their challenging it in the High Court. If they do not challenge it, they are likely to find their authority undermined to a far greater extent than it already has been, and indeed to find the stage set for an even more rapid undermining of their authority in the future.  Mr Speaker,  because the Australian Country Party is implacably opposed to these two fundamental provisions of the Bill, it will vote against it. In doing so it will assist in preserving the long established and highly respected electoral system that has operated since 
Federation and it will be acting to defend the sovereign rights of the States. 
This very important matter which we are discussing seeks to make an alteration to our existing Constitution so that local government authorities may have direct representation on the Australian Loan Council. In the last 24 hours we have seen the unprecedented farce in this Parliament of the Government using its repressive powers to guillotine the debate so that Opposition discussion is limited and so that the fallacies of the case which the Government has presented cannot be exposed. The debate is so limited that it gives the opportunity for only three or four Opposition speakers to state their point of view. I have never seen such an abuse of and such an intoxication with power by a government as we have seen displayed by this arrogant, almost dictatorial Government. It is little wonder that the Opposition has been so annoyed at being restricted in this way. 
The Government is making a mockery of Parliament. It is abusing its rights as a government by trying to stifle the Opposition and by trying to get this matter before the Australian people by stealth, hoping that in their ignorance they might cast a yes vote. The Australian people are well and truly aware of the actions of this Government in guillotining the debate and preventing Opposition members from having a free expression of their point of view. There is no liberty at all in this place if this is any example of the activities of the Government. The Bill we are examining seeks to transfer the powers of local government to the Commonwealth. That has enormous ramifications. Yet we are given 2 hours 30 minutes in which to debate 'this question. That means Opposition members will have 1 hour 15 minutes. Then when we get to the Committee stage we are to be given 15 minutes to debate the clauses of the Bill. This is appalling. lt is a complete abuse of the operations of a Parliament which is supposed to be a place where points of view can be expressed so that the Australian people as a whole can make a judgment. 
It is quite obvious that the reason for seeking this amendment to the Constitution is to enable the Australian Labor Party to pursue its policies aimed at centralising all power in Canberra. This is just one of the series of steps to by-pass and undermine the authority of the States. I can think of nothing more confusing than to have a situation in which the Commonwealth has a financial lever that it can use against local government authorities when local government authorities are the creation of State governments. They can be created or abolished. The States can put administrators in charge. They can change the boundaries at their will. Yet here the Commonwealth would be negotiating directly with those bodies for loan moneys or even for the provision of grants. Local governments are integrated very much with State lav/. The provision of many of the services, and the laws applying to State governments concerning land, hospitals, electricity, roads and communications are all an integral part of local government affairs. Yet this Government apparently wants local governments to be beholden to it as far as financial measures are concerned. I can understand why all State governments have opposed this measure, including 3 Labor State governments. They understand the very grave implications in trying to manage the affairs of local government sensibly if the Commonwealth pushes its influence into this area. 
The Country Party recognises that there is justification for particular measures designed to alleviate the financial problems of local government in Australia. Statistics indicate the scope of the problem. Between 1960 and 1970 the percentage of total government debt attributed to local government increased from 6 per cent to 8 per cent - from $700m to $ 1,600m. Over the same 10-year period local government receipts increased at a slower rate than did State and Commonwealth receipts. There is undoubtedly substance in the observation that revenue available for local government is inadequate in relation to requirements. 
These constitutional proposals do not in themselves represent a solution to the problem. They represent a particular approach. In my opinion it is not the most appropriate approach. The amendments to the Constitution outlined in this Bill presuppose that existing constitutional procedures are incapable of effectively meeting the situation. Such an assumption is unfounded. Adequate scope exists for an improved flow of resources to local government through existing constitutional channels. It would be a mistake to deny the need for such an increased flow. It also would be misleading to overstate the problem. In aggregate and on average the interest burden is becoming more onerous, but not dramatically so. The circumstances of individual local government bodies vary greatly. Local government revenue has not kept pace with the growth of Commonwealth revenue, but that is more a long term trend than a short term development. There is need for urgency, but the need should not be overstated as a justification for extreme measures. 
I believe that the disparity between the Commonwealth's financial position and the circumstances of local government in aggregate is a reflection of a broader problem. The State governments have, over a period of time, been restricted in their financial ability to discharge their responsibilities. It would be a mistake to assume that local government is unique in its financial position. It could be argued that State governments have neglected their responsibilities in this area. To advance that argument is to imply either that the State governments do not have sufficient revenue at their disposal or that such revenue is inequitably distributed. I think the first assumption is more supportable than the latter. Under these circumstances the logical approach would be to increase the flow of federal finance to the State governments for distribution to local government. Provision exists for this approach in section 96 of the Constitution. Existing procedures in the Loan Council would enable an expanded borrowing program to be utilised by State governments for local government purposes. However, I am inclined to the view that grant allocations are more appropriate in this instance than further loan revenue. The fundamental philosophy of the Australian Country Party is that financial arrangements should be tailored to the Constitution. One serves and strengthens the other. It is only if the constitutional arrangements are unworkable that a basis exists for an alteration of the Constitution. The arrangements are not unworkable; they need reviving and strengthening. 
The proposal that the Australian Government be empowered to borrow on behalf of local government is a dangerous one. At the recent Constitutional Convention the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that the Loan Council should be restructured. At present it comprises 6 State representatives and 2 Commonwealth representatives with the Commonwealth having an additional casting vote. The Prime Minister proposes to restructure the Loan Council so that there will be 6 State representatives, 6 local government representatives and an additional Commonwealth representative to make 4 Commonwealth votes. In other words, on matters affecting local government finance the States would be outnumbered and outvoted. The Loan Council was constituted under the 1927 Financial Agreement. It determines annual borrowing programs for the Australian Government and the States, together with the terms and conditions of loans to finance those programs. If this Bill were passed the people would be asked to vote on the proposition we are now discussing. 
About 20 per cent of local government current receipts are derived from net borrowings, of which about two-thirds is raised 'by local bodies but in many instances guaranteed by the State government. By promising, and presumably offering, favourable interest rates the Commonwealth would be responsible for this element of local government financing. State governments would be bypassed. The Commonwealth would, by financial inducement, take over responsibility for loan raising and be a consequentially more powerful force in the loan market. Its financial power would be greater, its policy leverage more direct. In the Loan Council the States would be outvoted on matters related to local government finance. The method of distribution of loan money to local government would be decided by the collective vote of local government and Commonwealth Government representatives. In practice, the distribution of loan revenue would be at the direction of the Commonwealth Government. The debt burden resulting from the service of the loan commitments will still reside with the local government bodies, instead of being diffused the creditor would be the Commonwealth. 
Of course, some may say that the implications to the federal system are overshadowed by the resultant benefits. This is difficult to see. Local government debt burdens have resulted from the commitment of successful loan flotations. There is little evidence that this loan money has been difficult to obtain under normal economic circumstances. Under existing Loan Council procedures the Loan Council approves an aggregate borrowing program for larger State, semi-government and local authorities. In 1973-74 borrowing programs totalling $564m are to be undertaken by the Commonwealth; yet the semigovernment share of government debt has risen most sharply of any form of government debt since the Second World War- from $352m to $6,025m or from 1 1 per cent of total government indebtedness to 29 per cent. Clearly access to Commonwealth revenue does not in itself imply reduced indebtedness. 
The proposal that the Commonwealth grant direct financial assistance to local government by amending section 96 of the Constitution also requires close scrutiny. Under Grants Commission arrangements, the Commonwealth may provide such assistance at the initiative of local government authorities. Under this proposal the Commonwealth may initiate grants as well as receive requests. In doing so it may bypass the States. In 1973-74 grants will comprise 32 per cent of the Loan Council programs. The Commonwealth may intend to extend that principle to local government. If the Australian people were to be asked to vote on these proposals I would ask them to consider carefully the full implications of them. It would mean a direct umbilical cord between their local council and the Commonwealth Government in Canberra. It could mean that the State governments would retain their responsibilities to and for local government but that financial authority and control would reside with Canberra. It would mean that the developing and potentially gigantic Department of Urban and Regional Development and its Minister would, in practice, determine the flow of development finance to various nominated regions of Australia. Those regions would in themselves be a basis for central planning on a regional basis and be in themselves significant political entities. It would mean that state governments in effect would exercise a dwindling residual role. The development thrust would occur at local government level without State government participation or approval. As  Sir Winston  Churchill put it in relation to another matter, the States would be like cut roses in a vase - fair to behold but doomed to die. No doubt the ultimate intention is just that. The Prime Minister in an article in 'The Australian Quarterly' of September 1971 stated: 
We should not have a federal system of over-lapping parliaments and a delegated but supervised system of local government. We should have a House of 'Representatives for international matters and nationwide matters, an assembly for the affairs of each of our dozen larger cities, and regional assemblies for the few score areas of rural production and resource development 'outside those cities. 
I ask the people to look beyond the immediate financial attractions of these proposals. They are more apparent than real. By all means, let us improve the position of local government. However, let us not destroy the Constitution in the process. Let us be vigilant against those who are obsessed with concentrating all power in Canberra by eroding and emasculating the authority of State governments. To some people in local government the issue may have a superficial appeal, but the implications for preserving our federal system will be under challenge if this question were to be passed by the Australian people. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What stage has been reached in discussions with industry organisations regarding the establishment of an Australian Apple and Pear Corporation. 
What method is proposed for the collection of levies from the industry to finance the activities of the Corporation. 
Is it proposed that the levy will be collected on apples destined for utilisation by the processing industry. 
Yes, I second the motion. I would have preferred to reserve my right to speak later but, on the performance of the Government in relation to the last motion which was before the House, it appears that the Government will gag the debate on this motion and so deprive us of a full debate. I rise with very great feeling. I think that this is the blackest day I have seen in the Parliament. 
Government members  -  Ha, ha! 
I fail to see how men sitting behind the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  can laugh so easily. I have such respect for the private members of the Government that I know that within their own minds there must be a good deal of stirring as to their respect for their Prime Minister because of such unmanly conduct as we have seen over the past few days, and because he has prevented the court of Parliament making a judgment on whether his actions or the actions of the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  have been appropriate. That is what has happened by the refusal to allow this matter to go before the House of Representatives Privileges Committee. Surely there are such decent instincts among honourable members of this Parliament as not to allow this sort of thing to go on unbridled as we are seeing today. We have before us a motion of censure of the Prime Minister. It covers 2 matters. The first is the unpardonable, vicious, malicious, and unmanly attack which he has made on a colleague in this 
Parliament, and the second is an implication against honourable members of the Liberal Party in this House. I do not see why the Prime Minister should distinguish between members of that Party and the Australian Country Party, other than to try to be smart and create a division between the Opposition parties. I was here last Wednesday. I was here in the afternoon and I was here in the evening. Fortunately no accusations can be made against me because I was at the function for only about 5 minutes. But if any accusation had been made against me I would have retaliated exactly as did the honourable member for Barker because it was unfair and unjust- 
And untrue. I was here and I had my wits about me watching the proceedings. It was not a disturbance just after dinner as a result of the party. There was an uproar in this Parliament during the afternoon as you,  Mr Speaker,  know only too well because you warned a number of us on many occasions that we had better restrain ourselves. We are seeing also the Government using its weight of numbers to repress any chance of this matter going before the Privileges Committee. It is a sad day for the Parliament when a matter cannot be judged fairly and equitably. Even though the Government has the numbers on the Privileges Committee we are prepared for that Commute to make its judgment on the matter. But no, the Prime Minister is not even prepared to do that. He has shown cowardly instinct by trying to restrain this form of action. All I say, in Australian language, is that he is nothing more than a dingo. Over the years no man has been more vile in making insinuations against members of this Parliament and in vilifying them than has the Prime Minister. Now, in a state of intoxication of power as Prime Minister, he thinks that he can make slanderous remarks about members of the Parliament, particularly members of the Opposition, and go unquestioned or unchallenged. If he thinks that he has reached that stage of importance, he will find retaliation not only from this side of the House but also from the Australian people. Every member of this Parliament has a responsibility to preserve and to protect this institution. There can be no protection for this institution and the individuals in it unless this matter can be fairly resolved before the 
Privileges Committee. As this has been prevented by the Prime Minister, I must level the severest censure at him. He quite obviously is not a man who is prepared to let independent judgment determine the ruling of the day. 
A few years ago, one other example of this sort of slanderous language occurred, but in much more modified tones than have been used by the Prime Minister. The person concerned was a then member from South Australia,  Mr Andrew  Jones. On that occasion,  Mr Andrew  Jones said outside this Parliament that half of members of this Parliament were drunk half of the time. The then Opposition, led by  Mr Calwell,  took offence - and rightly so - at that comment. It was examined. That honourable member was asked by this Parliament to withdraw those remarks and to apologise. He withdrew those remarks. But, as I said, they were modest by comparison with the remarks with which we are dealing now because they were general comments on all members of Parliament and were not related to any particular individual. When the finger is pointed at a particular individual, as has been done so contemptuously and reprehensibly in the case of the honourable member for Barker, as reported in yesterday's 'Australian', there is only one fair and honest course to be taken and that is for the matter to go before the Privileges Committee.  Mr Speaker,  I am disappointed in you- 
Well, I will not. Maybe that is cause for other action to be taken. But, in relation to the proposed reference of this matter to the Privileges Committee, for the Prime Minister to give a direction to the members of his Party that they are to oppose the reference is, I think, a wrong procedure to be followed in this House. I would have thought that on an issue such as this there might have been enough red blooded men in the Government Party to have this matter examined. I will play politics hard. I will accuse Ministers if there is maladministration of their departments. But I do not ever wish to get into the area of personalities. 
Government members - Oh! 
Honourable members on the Government side may laugh. Nobody in this place is pure. On many occasions, one could pick on individuals in respect of actions that they may take. I hope that I will never degrade myself to the level of trying to win a parliamentary debate on that basis. What we have seen today is the worst action that we could possibly witness in this Parliament. The standard of the Parliament is degenerating. If this is the start of the tactics which this Government intends to use in its dictatorial approach to government, it is a bad and sorry day for Australia. 
The last remarks of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  are a little hard to take when one realises that the tremendous growth in the development of the mineral industry in Australia was largely a result of the policies of the previous Government. The growth of the mineral industry in Australia has been one of the great success stories of the last decade throughout the world. Nobody can justifiably level that sort of charge that the honourable member made in his speech. 
The administration of the portfolio of Minerals and Energy has been characterised by a lack of communication. A great gulf of mistrust and misunderstanding exists between the Minister and the industry. Policies and rules are confusing and confounding. The industry is in a state of great uncertainty. I believe that considerable problems exist through an inadequate flow of ideas from the Minister's departmental echelons to his office. It is not that this information is not available; apparently it is not sought by the Minister's officers. 
Policy pronouncements from the Minister have been difficult to obtain and have been painfully extracted rather than offered. We get these major statements out of the Minister each time there is a censure motion against him or he finds himself in a corner. It is almost as if he is letting another hare go loose hoping that the hounds will not get too close. It is perhaps because of this lack of openness that a great deal of confusion exists about Government policy in the minerals and energy area. There is uncertainty about Government policy regarding Australian equity ownership and about the conditions on which export licences can be obtained. The proposed minerals and energy authority looms shadowlike in the background - its exact powers uncertain but its creation a matter of considerable apprehension throughout the industry. 
In responding to the recent matter of public importance which I proposed for discussion in the House, the Minister for Minerals and Energy referred to proposals to process coal into motor spirit. On an initial examination, it does seem to me that such an approach could have considerable merit. A study has been undertaken by Hydro-carbon Research Incorporated of the United States of America of the production of petrol from Australian brown coal. The study shows that for this process a plant would be necessary with access to coal, 138 kv electricity, river water and natural gas. Taking into account credits derived from the sale of by-products such as fuel oil and petrochemicals, the study suggests that, using the h-coal process, petrol could be produced at a manufacturing cost of about 9c a gallon. 
A further study has been undertaken by the Department of Chemical Engineering at the University of Queensland. The University conducted a feasibility study of the production of liquid fuels from coal at Blackwater in central Queensland. A capital investment of approximately $258m would be required, but the study suggests that petrol from such a plant could be landed in Gladstone at a net cost of about 8c a gallon. The return on investment would be between 12 per cent and 23 per cent before tax. On the basis of these studies, there may indeed be grounds for looking into coal conversion for some of our future petrol requirements. The central Queensland plant envisaged in the study could fill 40 per cent of Australia's anticipated requirements for 1975. There are vast coal reserves in Australia and particularly in Queensland. 
I find it difficult to reconcile this conclusion with the proposals of the Minister for Minerals and Energy in respect of natural gas. I cannot see why the Minister is so intent on converting natural gas at Dampier and Redcliffs beyond the liquid petroleum gas stage into motor spirit. I am told that this is a highly expensive process of doubtful economic viability. It is almost certainly much more expensive than coal conversion. As an example of some of the further problems in his. proposals, I point out that it would be necessary to transport petrochemicals as well as the motor spirit from Dampier to the eastern seaboard at considerable expense. At present it appears that the Minister proposes to proceed with both types of motor spirit production, regardless of the very dubious economics of the gas conversion process. I ask him to reconsider my earlier proposal that a special committee be established to make an in-depth investigation of our future energy requirements and the most appropriate means of meeting them. It is both unsatisfactory and irresponsible to make far reaching decisions on the basis of intuition and a few scraps of information and advice. 
If, as seems possible, coal conversion is a viable proposition, we need to look at this proposal urgently as part of a comprehensive program. We would need to look at the necessary pipeline requirements, at the regional development aspects and at the environmental implications. There is certainly room for considerable debate on all of these matters. What does appear to be accepted by industry experts is that the discovery and the development of new crude oil reserves would be the most economic means of meeting our gasoline shortfall. Exploration should be encouraged - not discouraged, as Government action is prompting. Perhaps most importantly of all, there must be a clear recognition that these matters must involve close liaison between the Minister and those with expertise in the industry. I have already suggested a special investigation into our energy position. This must be considered as but a first step to a closer and continuing liaison between the Minister and the industry. Far too much damage has been done already through a mutual lack of respect and communication. 
As a continuing long term arrangement, I would suggest for consideration the adoption of the Canadian system of a federal petrol industry cabinet committee which was first set up in Canada about 4.5 years ago. The committee consists of between 10 and 12 members chaired by the Minister for Energy and Mines Resources. Other senior Ministers sometimes attend. Industry members debate among themselves and the Minister can determine industry feeling and has access to advice outside the Public Service. Subjects discussed are critical to Canada's petroleum industry and include export licensing, pricing and tax arrangements. The Canadian Government and the Canadian industry believe that the committee is of great practical value to the country. I commend these courses to the Minister as constructive suggestions to meet our present position. We cannot allow the situation to continue in which the Minister of his own initiative makes impromptu, sometimes blundering, bluffing statements. This is no substitute for carefully studied, discussed and collectively resolved arrangements for both the Government and the industry. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. He will recall the comments by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd that the Prices Justification Tribunal had not given an explanation of the grounds on which it, the Tribunal, reached its decision on BHP prices and the Tribunal's own comment that it had not been given the criteria it needed to make its decisions. Does the Prime Minister regard such a stab in the dark method as satisfactory? Will he give an assurance that if the Government is given price and income control powers proper criteria will be laid down for the application of these powers? Finally, will the Prime Minister make it clear to the Australian people before they vote on 8 December just what these criteria will be? 
(Richmond- Leader of the Australian Country Party) - I associate the Australian Country Party with the motion moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and also with the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  The Prime Minister paid a very fine tribute to an ex-member of this Parliament. John Johnstone Dedman was a remarkable man with a humble background who distinguished himself as a very great Australian. I think that all of us must feel a tinge of sadness because John Dedman was one of the most familiar characters around this House over many years. While I was in the Ministry and had reason to be here during recesses there were many occasions when I would have lunch with John Dedman. He would talk to me about the difficulties faced during wartime years and post wartime years. I admired the way in which he faced up to many of the great problems and difficulties then. But probably what 1 admired most about him was that he was a very kindly man and he never had a bad word to say about anyone. He was the second last remaining Minister of the Curtin Government, the Government which took over responsibility for the defence of this country when we were under threat. I think that any Minister during such a period had a tremendous responsibility and burden thrust upon him. 
We have a duty to recognise and appreciate what such Ministers did for this country. John Dedman also had the enormous task of developing policies for post-war reconstruction. As the Prime Minister said, he was a man of big ideas; he had his objectives and great determination. But possibly his greatest attri bute was a capacity to choose men to aid him in doing the job. I was interested to hear the Prime Minister read out the long list of men whom he had solicited to help him do that job. I feel a great deal of sadness at the loss of a man who distinguished himself as a truly great Australian. On behalf of the Country Party I express our sympathy to his widow and family. 
I support the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  opposing the measures presented by these taxation Bills. At a public meeting earlier this year, along with other people, we discussed the broad issues of taxation concessions to rural industries. At that meeting I foreshadowed that the Australian Labor Party would use the emotional reaction to the Pitt Street farmers in an attempt to divide the rural community and to justify the elimination of concessions. The Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 5) is in effect the legislative machinery for dismantling the whole range of taxation concessions to primary industry. Clause 11 of the Bill provides that the accelerated depreciation rate of  20  per cent a year will be discontinued with respect to expenditure on plant and structural improvements incurred after 21 August this year. Clause 1 3 makes a similar provision for expenditure incurred in the Northern Territory. It is important to note that the depreciation allowance applied to fishing and various operations as well as to farming and grazing. That in itself is not necessarily to be criticised if reasons for it are sufficiently compelling. The reasons for discontinuing many concessions to rural industries are anything but compelling. 
To me it is a Bolshevik-like attitude to use Pitt Street fanners as the reason for eliminating the tax concessions. 
These people are being used as scapegoats with great venom. The Pitt Street farmers - that is, people not fully engaged in farming - are not necessarily wealthy businessmen. They also consist of thousands of people and ordinary families whose members are wage and salary earners. They are people who have had a lifelong desire to acquire a farm which will support them in order to give their children a new area of opportunity. They comprise thousands of wage and salary earners and business people, large and small, who have been encouraged to look towards a rural way of life by the taxation measures that have applied. Many thousands of these people actually have changed their occupation and have helped towards the development of rural industries. 
These people have brought with them new ideas and new approaches. Their skills in many cases have improved farm techniques and management. Many of these new farmers have been the pace setters for certain types of land development and new farming activities. In some districts they have played a major role in reviving and reinvigorating farming activity and have brought new prosperity and greater population to their communities. To use the emotive issue of the Pitt Street farmer ignores the important contribution they have made to Australian agricultural and pastoral development and in so eliminating the concessions, punishes thousands of bona fide primary producers who have found the taxation concessions valuable. 
Let us look at the effect of some of the actions taken by the Government in eliminat ing concessions. If a machine previously cost a farmer $1,000, he could have claimed as a deduction from gross income $200 for each of 5 years. This concession will now be discontinued. According to a study published by an officer of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in 1968, the effect of the 20 per cent depreciation allowance and the 20 per cent investment allowance was to make more profitable to a very considerable extent investment in many items pf farm equipment. For example, without these special tax measures, the post tax rate of return for tractors, earthmoving plant and bulldozers would have been 4.5 per cent at the 60 per cent rate on income. After the deductions are taken into account it would have been 1 1 per cent at the same tax rate. 
There are also significant effects on investment on which depreciation is allowed over 5 years, but on which no investment allowance is deductible. Such items of investment include most structural improvements. For example, the effect of the accelerated depreciation allowance was to increase the post tax return on investment in woolsheds from  6i  per cent to 9 per cent. I would like honourable members to note the concluding comments of the BAE study. I wish them to note in the light of a world food shortage and higher food prices the conclusion which states: 
The accelerated amortisation measures almost certainly raise the total level of investment in agriculture. 
Clause 13 of the Bill effectively brings to an end a special deduction for investment in plant used in primary production. The brochure put out by the Commonwealth Taxation Office and the Department of Primary Industry in 1970 stated: 
The purpose of this allowance is to stimulate the use of new and up to date plant in Australian primary production. 
Presumably one of the purposes of this Bill is to discourage such investment. The discontinuance of this allowance will also reduce the use of new and modern plant in the fishing industry, the same industry which the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  claims is in need of special Government assistance to up-date equipment and increase efficiency. The following items, among others, have received this allowance: Tractors, bulldozers, water boring plant, pumps, windmills, tanks, engines, shearing machines, fishing vessels, engines for these vessels, radar and echo sounders. 
But this allowance is being removed by this Government which claims that inflation is caused, to the extent of 60 per cent of the increase in the consumer price index, by increased rural commodity prices. These prices have risen because the increase in demand has exceeded the growth in supply. 
Are these measures the Government's answer to this problem?. Is this how it proposes to increase agricultural production? Is this how is proposes to increase meat production? Is this how it proposes to encourage the development of the forestry industry? Is this how it proposes to assist the fishing industry? Is this how it proposes to hasten development of northern Australia, 
 The investment allowance applicable to manufacturing industry also is to be discontinued. This allowance is of tremendous importance to manufacturing industry. Its significance can be gauged by the fact that it is estimated to be worth $60m in a full year to the industry. The investment allowances encouraged increased replacement of obsolete plant and the development of an increased level of efficiency to match overseas competition, which is made more vigorous by revaluations of the Australian dollar and the 25 per cent tariff reduction. 
Clause 17 of the Bill amends section 75 of the principal Act. Once again, expenditure incurred after 21 August 1973 shall not receive existing benefits under this provision unless the contract was made before that date. The effect of this clause is that a whole range of capital expenditure on land used for primary production is no longer allowable as a full deduction in the income year in which expenditure is incurred. If this Bill is passed, this expenditure will be deductible either at the ordinary depreciation rate or over 10 years. Some expenditures such as water draining, weed destruction and combat of soil erosion will be allowed to be written off over 10 years. 
However, the following items of expenditure, instead of being written off in the income year in which the expenditure is incurred, will only be allowed to be subject to depreciation under general depreciation provisions and for some items it could be as long as 50 years. Items that this will affect will include the erection of fences, dam construction, underground tanks, concrete tanks, irrigation channels, levy banks, water pipes and fodder storage. This is the Government that talks of the need to protect the nation against drought. What this Bill seeks to do is to discourage drastically preparation against drought or against adverse conditions. It does not encourage good land management and the preservation of our most important heritage; that is, our soil. 
Moreover, under clause 19 of this Bill, expenditure on fencing to prevent animal pests entering a property or to fence off areas affected by mineral salts shall no longer be allowed as a full deduction in the year of expenditure. Presumably the Government does not want to encourage pest control. Presumably it is not concerned to combat the rabbit menace. Under previous arrangements, a primary producer could have bought 1,000 acres of virgin land for, say, $10 an acre and spent $50 an acre on clearing and erection of a rabbit-proof fence. If he paid tax at the rate of 60 per cent of income, he would have saved $30,000 under the previous tax arrangements out of a total expenditure of $60,000. He will not save that much any more - nothing like it. So his incentive to invest in this way will be seriously reduced. 
I only have time to canvass the major items of concern to rural producers and fishing interests in the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 5). I would be failing in my duty if I did not point out the very great and adverse impact this Bill will have on the primary sector of the nation. This may best be expressed by a specific example. Let us assume that a typical farmer operates at a profit and, over the years, pays up to 25 per cent tax. He purchases $2,000 worth of farm machinery a year and farms up to 800 acres. Since he purchases $2,000 of farm machinery a year, he will pay an additional $180 due to the elimination of the investment allowance and the increase depreciation period for farm machinery assets. If he spends $600 a year on capital improvements he pays an additional $170 due to the increase in the write-off period of capital improvement items. Last year the purchase of a $10,000 tractor would have created $12,000 of tax-deductible expenses in the first 5 years. Now he is $875 worse off just on the one purchase of that tractor. 
This Government has sold the primary sector down the river. What has happened to those Labor members in rural electorates who are supposed to represent their constituents? Let us remember that in the December 1972 election the Australian Labor Party gained additional support in 29 rural electorates and lost support in 21. Was it because the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  who is now the Minister for Immigration, waxed so eloquent on the subject of the wine excise? Was it because he said in the House of Representatives on 25 May last year:  by taking the revenue of $4m to $5m - That is from the wine industry - homes, towns and communities will be placed in difficulties unnecessarily. 
He was talking about the wine excise. The Minister for Immigration should tell his constituents that the 1973-74 Budget will take $20m in a full year out of that industry. He should tell them that clause 8 of this Bill, which drastically revalues the trading stock of wine makers, may force many small family wineries out of business due to the lack of the necessary liquidity in those operations. He should tell his constituents that he is voting for this Bill. I would like an assurance from the Minister that the valuation of trading stock will be such as to bring in only the $15m anticipated over the period, and not the $30m which the industry estimates will be the actual amount. I note that the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  has certainly had no inhibitions in vigorously attacking his Federal Labor colleagues for a gross betrayal of preelection promises to the wine and grape growing industries. A brochure distributed by the Labor Party before the December election stated: 
A Labor Government will provide incentives to expand meat production where needed to supply new markets. 
I ask those honourable members opposite who represent country electorates to tell those on this side of the House how the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 5) honours that promise. I state unequivocally that those in country electorates who voted Labor were sold down the river and no doubt now realise it. They certainly showed in the New South Wales election, that they realise where their friends are. I do not advocate unnecessary featherbedding of primary industry. However, I do advocate in the present circumstances that every effort should be made to encourage the rural sector and the fishing and forestry industries to respond fully to the present and prospective shortages of rural commodities. I recognise quite openly that some taxation concessions may not be the optimum means of achieving this purpose and that there may be anomalies and inconsistencies in some of those measures. A thorough examination is certainly necessary to ensure that the concessions achieve the purposes intended. 
However, this Government is not prepared to undertake such an analysis but is simply dismantling the whole range of measures and leaving in their place a vacuum. The effect on the aggregate position will be to discourage investment and consequently rural productivity and output. Individuallly, farmers will be hit very hard on an income basis. At the last Bureau of Agricultural Economics survey, the income for sheep properties averaged between $2,000 and $5,000. The average income of a dairy farmer was $5,000, but nothing like that figure in New South Wales and Queensland. The average net farm income for apple and pear producers was $4,000. Statistics show that on a long-term basis the average income of a rural producer has risen at a much lower rate than that of non-rural wage earner. It can hardly be claimed that the rural sector represents an area of relatively great prosperity or that it has been the recipient in the past of huge government handouts to such an extent that other sections of the community were being penalised. In 1971-72 the year of the highest government payments to the rural sector, total government assistance to the rural sector on a direct and indirect basis, including taxation revenue forgone, amounted to 5 per cent of government expenditure. Yet rural production amounted to 10 per cent of the gross national product and one-half of the nation's export income. It was a small amount in comparison with the value to secondary industry in tariff protection. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, the Country Party opposes this Bill as a classic example of distorted thinking. At a time when rising rural commodity prices are exerting profound influences on inflation as expressed in the consumer price index, the Government introduces measures which will aggravate those strains in the long term by reducing the incentive to increase production. For the information of honourable members, particularly those Labor members in country electorates, I seek leave to table a paper prepared by  Mr Edwards  of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in 1968 which sets out the effect on investment profitability of the depreciation allowance and investment allowance which this Bill seeks to remove. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is it a fact that under the proposed national health insurance scheme many people who prefer private hospitalisation, and now are insured for private hospitalisation in private hospitals and nursing homes, may be unable to afford the extra cost involved under the proposed plan and therefore will have no alternative but to accept public ward accommodation when it can be made available? Would such people be deprived of their existing right to choose their hospital, their doctor and their time of hospitalisation in the case of elective treatment? 
My question, which I direct to the Prime Minister, is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Bradfield. I refer to the Dorothy Dix report on prices and incomes by  Mr T.  C. Winter. Has the Prime Minister decided to accept the suggestions in the report in the event that his referendum proposals are accepted? Finally I ask him, as I asked him last week, whether he will outline in some detail before 8 December in what areas and to what degree the proposed constitutional powers will be exercised and what supplementary measures will be adopted if those referendum proposals are carried. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The Minister for Labour deliberately and maliciously misrepresented me this morning. He said that except by way of frivolous interjection that I have never drawn attention to the unemployment situation in Lismore. I wish the House to know that I asked the Minister questions on this matter in September and that I wrote letters to him on 27 September and 17 October. 
Indeed, I have sent him other information drawing his attention to the unemployment in Lismore and other country areas. I might say that I have not received satisfactory replies by the Minister to any of these matters. It is quite obvious that unemployed people in country areas are being given very low priority as far as corerspondence is concerned. 
 Every member of this House, and every Australian, knows that we are suffering the effects of acute shortages of goods. Every housewife knows that supermarket shelves have empty spaces in them. People trying to set up home can get neither the building materials nor the furniture without months of waiting. Tradesmen cannot get parts and farmers cannot get supplies. Warehouses all over the nation are emptying and there is no sign of supplies coming forward to refill them. Shops have signs up apologising to customers for shortages caused by industrial disputes. 
One would think that we were in a post war-time situation where industry had not been able to gear itself up to meet the demands of a free society. So serious is the position - and so much worse is it likely to become - that I think the House would do well to consider it. I do not propose to try to place all the blame for the shortages problem on the Government; the matter is much more complex than that. But I do say that the Government must carry a considerable amount of the responsibility for the development of a situation that has fostered and generated the shortages that are of concern to the whole community. 
I issue this warning at the outset: If there is one thing calculated to worsen shortages, it is controls over prices and incomes. Why produce more when your chance to earn profits is interfered with by controlled prices? Why work harder to produce more when your wage packet is to be controlled? The Australian people should keep this in mind. Shortages are bad enough now, as every supermarket and warehouse shows, but they will be much worse if the Government depresses productivity even further by screwing down the lid on prices and wages. 
The word 'shortages' is on everyone's lips. For example, there is a 7-week delivery period for refrigerators. A steel shortage has restricted supply to food canners and builders. Customers are waiting 9 to 10 weeks for supplies of fencing materials. Nails, and a whole range of building materials, are in short supply and are disrupting building programs. Delivery time for furniture is up to 20 weeks. Aluminium is in short supply. Clothing items and footware are in short supply. Grocery shortages in certain lines are the worst in 20 years - toys,' plastic goods, timber, joinery, so the list goes on. 
The central force behind the situation is booming consumer demand. Retail sales in 
October - except for motor vehicles and parts - were 20 per cent above the 1972 level. The figures show a tremendous upsurge in retail demand from the beginning of this year. The domestic boom in Australia has not been simply a national phenomenon; it coincides with, and draws strength from, an international boom. When this Government came to power, it inherited an economy heading for a boom and it inherited a strong external balance. The Government took the view that our oversea reserves were excessive in relation to import requirements and that our balanceofpayments position was excessively strong. 
So, it revalued the dollar in an effort to reduce a payments surplus that was expanding foreign reserves and making more money available for spending in Australia. The idea was to control the money supply, and hence demand. Yet the money supply continues to expand strongly, and demand booms upward. For this, the Government deserves censure. It deserves censure for its failure to exercise proper economic management. It has failed in its task of national leadership. It was obvious at the beginning of this year that we were heading for a boom, yet for the first few months of this year the Labor Party failed to act. Because of an ideological mental block on this matter it ignored the evidence of excessive liquidity to which it was a major contributor. The advice to the Government was to increase interest rates by a comparatively small  i  per cent to 1 per cent, but the advice was ignored. Action was postponed as the money supply escalated. 
Of course, the steam valve eventually blew open. Drastic action was demanded and, as a result of months of languid inaction, interest rates were pushed up to record levels. The short-term Commonwealth bond rate rose from 4i per cent in March to 7.7 per cent in September. And while all this was going on, strikes were undermining the capacity of industry to produce the goods people were seeking. Then the Budget introduced the largest increase in Commonwealth expenditure for 20 years. More than anything else, it was a consumer Budget. Bigger allocations to consumer interests were paid for by deficit budgeting and by the large-scale withdrawal of investment incentives to producer areas of the economy. The emphasis was shifted from production to consumption. We sowed the wind - or the Government did - and now all of us are reaping the whirlwind. There was a rapid consumer boom, and suppliers were overwhelmed, and they are still overwhelmed. 
Production is increasing, but not fast enough. And what happens when people cannot buy what they want, and when they sense the possibility of a worsening position? They try to buy faster in an effort to beat coming shortages, and make things even worse. People pay premium prices to get preference treatment and graft creeps into the handling and supply arrangements. Those in remote areas from the point of production tend to be disregarded. Country industries and tradesmen, businessmen and farmers are certainly complaining about lack of supplies. 
In circumstances such as these, one would have expected the Government to have acted much sooner, and differently, than it did. One would have expected it to have acted promptly at an early stage to limit demand. One would have expected it to encourage productivity and production. One would have expected it to severely limit its own demands on resources. One would have expected it to have tried to reduce the industrial strife that is a major factor in the shortages crisis. One would have expected it to try to restrain the trend towards shorter hours - the 35-hour week - and longer holidays, a trend that is making the situation worse. But it has done precisely the opposite. 
Sitting suspended from 1 p.m. to 2.15 p.m. 
And because it has done the opposite, the people of Australia are experiencing a crisis of shortages - a crisis which will take on a new meaning as Christmas demand mounts. The Government has shown a lack of courage and statesmanship in failing to place the real interests of Australia ahead of its own spending commitments. It sowed the seeds of monetary severity by postponing action on interest rates. The crunch was much worse when it came. By raising Commonwealth spending by 19 per cent in one year at a time of boom, our resources were overloaded. Inflation was intensified. Demand has been built up and is now frustrated. It cannot be met. 
The problem, and the causes of it, are identifiable. But what are the solutions? Firstly, we have to understand that the worth of the Government's social welfare programs is being largely negated by the inflation they intensify. 
There is little point in spending heavily on social welfare if that spending is simply going to generate inflation that takes away the increased benefits. There is little point in big Commonwealth spending if the pressures on resources are going to worsen inflation and create greater shortages. And to get rid of shortages it would be logical to provide incentives for producers, both rural and industrial, to respond to the situation by increasing productivity and production. But instead of holding out new incentives the Government has eliminated even the existing ones. Food prices, as measured by the consumer price index, rose by 18 per cent between the September quarter of last year and this year. Yet, faced with food shortages, both present and prospective, it is strange logic indeed that compels this Government to eliminate incentives to agricultural productivity and production and then to reallocate those resources to the consumers of foods. 
It is obvious too that labour shortages are a serious bottleneck in the path of increased output. An increased migrant intake may be worthy of consideration. It is by no means clear that, even if the migrants were available, they would relieve the short-term strain on our resources to a greater extent than they would impose additional strains. But at least we ought to look at the situation. It is undoubtedly time to broaden our outlook on the use of labour. There is considerable scope for increased involvement of married women in the work force. Their increased participation, particularly on a part-time basis, should be encouraged. The Jaguar car company in Britain is proposing to introduce a scheme whereby retired workers may continue employment on the basis of different working hours, wages and tasks. There is no reason why years of accumulated experience should be completely lost to the community. We should consider such proposals in Australia. 
The number of working hours lost in 1973 in industrial disputes has increased by nearly 30 per cent on the 1972 level. This is a major factor in the shortages crisis. This Government, before the election, promised industrial harmony. It was given a mandate to introduce industrial harmony. It has presided over industrial anarchy. The Government, using its affinity with labour, should act to prevent the perpetuation of situations in which industry is being prevented from meeting shortages through continual strikes and stoppages. 
There should be a major change in the Government's attitude to business and industry. Instead of antagonising industry and sapping its confidence so that investment in productive capacity has so seriously dropped, the Government should do all it can to encourage investment so that industry can equip itself to achieve higher production. The Public Service should be subject to close examination in view of its expanding numbers and financial requirements at a time of labour shortages and spending pressures. The number of fulltime civilian staff engaged under the Public Service Act has increased by 4.1 per cent in the 9 months between November 1972 and August 1973  -  a very high rate of increase. 
The Government's inquiry into tariff by-law policy should be expedited. It should be possible to have a system under which physical supply constraints are alleviated by duty-free entry of necessary imports, without causing any damage to our own industries. But such procedures must be flexible and selective. The 25 per cent tariff reduction was neither, and could rebound in our faces if the forecast severe international recession eventuates in 1974. 
In summary, the problem of shortages is a deep-rooted one. The solutions must be comprehensive and broadly-based. I have outlined some of the remedies that should be applied. But their implementation will require political courage and statesmanship. It is unfortunate for the Australian people that this has so far been lacking by the Government at present in charge of the affairs of this nation. 
But what I must repeat, and emphasise, is that as bad as shortages are now, they will get far worse if a system of price control is imposed. Nothing is more likely to reduce the supplies of goods in the supermarket and the store than price control. Nothing is more certain to reduce the range of goods than price control. Nothing is more certain to destroy the incentive of manufacturers to try to catch up on production than price control. Nothing is more certain to discourage people from investing in industry, and from starting new industries, and from expanding existing industries, than price control. In the present situation of serious and worsening shortages of goods of all kinds, the worst possible thing the Australian people can do on Saturday is give the Government power to control prices. This is a very serious situation. One would think that we were living in a post-war era at the moment, where a free enterprise system was just starting to operate. One would never believe that the situation could change so dramatically in a period of 12 months as it has done, with people in almost every section of industry being delayed and prevented from increasing production because of a shortage of goods created largely by the actions of this Government. 
 I wish to address my remarks on this Bill to the 25 per cent tariff reduction enacted by the Government in July this year. Most Australians will always appreciate it if some worthwhile reduction in tariffs can be made so that the cost impost on the community at large is kept to a minimum level. But, as the previous Minister responsible for the operation of the tariff system, I must say that I am critical of the crude way in which this across the board reduction was made, without any discrimination being applied. I believe that the nondiscrimination will act unfairly and unjustly on certain industries. Because of this and because the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board was involved with the recommendation that this should be the procedure, the confidence of industry has been undermined quite considerably. It has been given a shake. 
This action had all the hallmarks of a hasty decision. There was not the investigation in depth that there should have been. The decision took no account of industries that have been before the Tariff Board recently, when adjustments have been made to the level of protection allotted to them by the Government after recommendation by the Tariff Board. These are significant industries. As a result of recent investigations, some of them had the level of protection reduced. Now, immediately on top of that decision, the Government has stripped another 25 per cent off that level of protection. People in those industries must doubt the credibility of the functioning of the Tariff Board if, after a recommendation made only in recent times, the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board can accept that another 25 per cent should be taken off. Also, the decision had all the indications that it had been made hastily and crudely, because there was no consideration or discrimination in respect of special preference tariffs that are provided under the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement and less developed countries which are allowed to bring in certain commodities at a much reduced or concessional rates. When the full impact of these concessions is felt, I am sure that industries will suffer. 
The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said that the employees of any industries affected would be compensated. That is a rather spurious argument to use. I find it somewhat contradictory and confusing and certainly, administeratively, nearly impossible to justify special unemployment relief for those who can claim to have been affected by the competition from imports as compared with other people in the community who receive normal social services unemployment relief. In conjunction with the statement about the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut, the Government announced that employees affected by this decision would be given special unemployment treatment; that, in fact, they would receive from the Government compensation at the wage rate they were earning during the previous 6 months. This is a rather unusual set of circumstances. How long that policy commitment will apply, nobody knows; but certainly we all knew that it would not have any immediate impact on industry, that with the booming circumstances of trade around the world the cold winds of competition from imports would not be felt this year but possibly would be felt next year. 
The decision to reduce tariffs by 25 per cent was made in relatively unusual economic circumstances. The economy was in a period of pronounced boom. Retail demand was surging ahead and, with the quickening pace of activity, resources were coming under strain. The supply capacities of industry were stretched as demand pressures were fed by the high level of liquidity in the economy. Industrial production was increasing, but at an uneven rate, and serious shortages already were evident in certain areas, such as the building and construction  industries.  That was the domestic situation - a climate of boom and shortages. 
Faced with a deteriorating situation, the Government looked for ways of relieving the pressure on resources. For months it had been rejecting advice to raise interest rates. It was framing a Budget which would increase Commonwealth expenditure by the largest amount and the highest percentage increase since the early 1950s. It clearly was not prepared to act at that stage through financial and monetary policy. One avenue of approach appeared to be particularly attractive, and that was the idea of reducing tariffs. When the Australian Labor Party came to power our foreign exchange reserves were at a very high level - $4,800m, or considerably more than our annual import bill. Our balance of payments situation was strong, despite revaluation of the currency. The Government proposed to increase imports by making them more competitive in terms of related price. An increase in the flow of imports would alleviate the strain on resources in Australia. Our balance of payments could stand it. The assumption was that our industries could do so, too. 
Following a report of officials, tariffs were reduced unilaterally by 25 per cent in July. At the same time provision was made for assistance to employees who might be unemployed as a result of that decision. At face value, the decision seems to have paid off. Imports are now rising strongly and only a handful of workers has been obviously disadvantaged to date. But for the workers in the textile and clothing industries considerable concern is growing. If the forecast of increased imports next year as world trade tends to slacken proves correct, there is a chance that the jobs of something like 80,000 people will be put at risk. Many of these 80,000 people are associated with decentralised industries and many of them are women in the work force who find it difficult to get alternative types of work. The decision was hailed as being courageous but it was nothing of the kind, and I said so at the time. 
Our boom was matched by and drew  strength from an international boom.  Shortages in Australia were matched by shortages overseas. It was clearly naive for tie Government to expect this move in itself at that time to induce a dramatic increase in imports when industries in supplying countries -were at full strength. Reduction in tariffs may have been able to alter relative prices, but it could not in itself increase the volume of imports. Similarly, Australian industry was embarrassed by an abundance of orders - not by a threat of import competition. Clearly, lags would apply and any adverse effects would be later ones. Imports are now increasing across a wide range of products, probably largely in response to the considerable revaluation of the Australian dollar against our major trading partners, as well as to growing efforts to obtain supplies from overseas to supplement domestic supplies. The effects may well be felt in 1974 when world demand may ease considerably. We may be caught between the scissor blades of rising costs and falling commodity prices. Overseas industries will be looking for markets, and their prices will be more competitive. 
Clearly the tariffs reductions have had an uneven impact. In some industries where the margin of surplus protection was considerable the impact will be muffled. But what of those industries such as clothing, footwear and food processing where tariff protection under normal circumstances was crucial? It was because of this mixed picture that we had a Tariff Board to report on the individual requirements in industry. If it is argued that protection levels were excessive in general they are not excessive in particular areas. It is these particular industries and the workers they employ that are in jeopardy. 
I repeat that it was a crude decision to apply a decision right across the board, taking into account industries that have been reviewed in recent times. I was attacked in some quarters over my attitude to tariff cuts when I said that to do it in a manner such as this without being discriminating and without taking into account the special circumstances of our tariff protection system was, while bold in some ways, a little absurd. There are many industries where protection has applied for a long period and where there has been no review. The previous Government established a procedure for the review of all tariffs. This review admittedly would have taken a period of 6 years. 
I believe that because of the excessive inflationary pressures that we have at the moment there is some justification for the Government's having an across the board cut but, if it had used a more analytical method and if it had applied a few qualifications, taking into account industries that may have been reviewed in the last 2 years, or if it had taken into account an industry which might be affected by the less developed countries preference or which had come under the New Zealand and Australia Free Trade Agreement, I would have found it a worthy decision that I could have defended. If some of those industries that have not been reviewed for a long time were in a tight protection position, I am sure that the Minister would have acted quickly to see that a form of temporary protection was given. 
 In reply to the honourable Minister, I accepted the policy of applying it right across the board but not in such a bland way as it was done. I think that the Minister was overseas at the time but if he had participated in the Cabinet discussion I am sure he would have brought up the point that I am bringing up at the moment, because it did shake the confidence of industry when the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board was prepared to put his name to a recommendation which might automatically mean a further 25 per cent reduction on industries that had been reviewed in the last 12 months, as well as meaning that the Tariff Board was not genuine when it made the recommendations at the level at which they were made to the Government. In other words, it decided that a further 25 per cent could be trimmed off. 
The tariff structure is complex and of long standing. Most of the protective arrangements were established before the Second World War, and the overall protective impact may have declined since then. I mentioned that the Government had instituted a review to try to overcome this, and it wanted to try to reduce the impact of the inflationary pressures, many of which have been induced by this Government itself. I am not opposed to tariff reductions. Indeed, tariff protection involves a cost to the community and should be minimised, but I firmly believe that adjustment of our tariff arrangements should be selective and should discriminate. That is why I opposed the 25 per cent unilateral reduction in non-revenue tariffs. Most imports already enter duty free and the impact of the reduction on the remaining industries would be both postponed and uneven. 
The situation now is that we are arbitrarily linked to the United States dollar and as that currency gains strength our currency in turn revalues against other major currencies, such as sterling and the yen. So industry which is concerned about overseas competition, is being caught both by the policy of the Government to reduce tariffs indiscriminately and by the changing value of our currency. The effect is that imports from those countries have gained an additional competitive advantage not through the strentgh of our currency but through the changing strength of the United States dollar. It is time to float our dollar and let it find the true market value instead of letting it be fiddled and manipulated by politicians who make the political decisions when currency should be adjusted. 
We have seen 3 alterations in our currency this year, two of these by arbitrary and deliberate action of the Government, and one of them by default. I would not for one minute say that there should not have been some alteration to our Australian currency but it is coming into question now whether the currency is the right and proper value. If it is allowed to go free nobody can dispute that the market is not determining what is the correct value. Through that means its value will be free from political manipulation. It will be free to respond to the circumstances of .1974, whatever they may eventually turn out to be. In the meantime the competitive position of Australian industry has been dealt a severe blow, and the impact is yet to come. All the signs are that competition will be more severe in 1974 as we see a slackening in international trade. I only hope that the Government is prepared to take action and to be a little more discriminating when industries are going to feel the full impact of the predictions for 1974. 
Whilst we do not oppose these amendments that have been brought forward, the position of the Australian Country Party in relation to the establishment of the Industries Assistance Commission is still that we abhor the idea of creating a central planning body with such total authority for investigation and examination. We believe that it will lift itself above the normal responsibility of representatives in this Parliament. I made a speech describing the feelings of my Party on this question. Some of the amendments that have been brought forward will ameliorate the immediate harshness of this Bill. 
The amendment which provides that the wheat industry and the sugar industry will not have to go before the Industries Assistance Commission is a very pious sort of amendment. The amendment provides that those industries are excluded from the provisions of the Bill for the first 6 months of next year and after that period any further discussions and negotiations with those industries will, first of all, have to be under the auspices of the Industries Assistance Commission. The amendment is nothing more than a palliative to try to keep the people of these industries at arm's length so that they will not rise in strong opposition to what is being done by the Government. In other words, the amendment will mean that all future industry discussions will, firstly, have to be with a group of economists and bureaucrats who will listen to the evidence and then make recommendations to the Government for the Government to make a decision. 
We know only too well, from the recent decision of the Tariff Board in relation to colour television, how difficult it is to oppose the recommendations of an authority with the prestige of the Tariff Board. Of course, this new body will be built up with very much more prestige than the Tariff Board. What happened in relation to colour television? We had the drama of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  standing up in this chamber and threatening to resign if his Party would not adopt the attitude of the Tariff Board. I have been saying that if a body such as the Industries Assistance Commission makes recommendations, it is very difficult for members of this Parliament or the Government to alter those recommendations very drastically. 
When I was Minister for Trade and Industry and had the responsibility for Tariff Board recommendations, I saw that it was very difficult to buck a recommendation of the Board if the media and public opinion seemed to favour the Tariff Board recommendation. They normally do because the Tariff Board, in dealing with industries item by item, generally is dealing with a minority group. So the interests of the consumer are generally dominant as far as the Press and the media are concerned. But I see- 
The Prime Minister says: Hear, hear!'. Of course he thinks of the consumers. That has been his attitude all along - to the detriment of industry and industry organisations, particularly the rural producers to whom he has been so harsh and vindictive this year. (Honourable members interjecting) 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What steps have been taken to enable the migration programme to contribute to policies of regional development as indicated on page 38 of the statement on Immigration presented to the House of Representatives. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of an article by one of his advisers, Professor Fred Gruen, in the 9 November issue of the 'ANU Reporter', in which Professor Gruen asks what is wrong with economists drawing attention to the intractable long-term problems which have often been produced by price controls? Does the Prime Minister agree with Professor Gruen's claims that price controls have led to 8-year waits for flats in Stockholm, the abandonment of thousands of apartments in New York every year, the virtual cessation of residential building in France in the 1920s and 1930s and many similar examples? Finally, does he agree with Professor Gruen who said: 'It is up to Bob Hawke to give us some evidence for his assumption that a system of workable price controls can be devised in a mixed economy in peacetime'? If he does agree with Professor Gruen on these matters, will he say so now so that the Australian people will be aware of the dangers of price control before they vote on Saturday? 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
What company will have managerial control over the petrochemical complex at Redcliffs in South Australia. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
What is the estimated (a) capital cost and (b) annual production capacity of the plant near Gidgealpa to remove  CO2  and separate liquid petroleum gas from the natural gas production. 
What is the estimated production cost per gallon of motor spirit to be produced at Redcliffs by processing liquid petroleum gas. 
What is the estimated annual maximum production capacity of the Redcliffs complex to process liquid petroleum gas into motor spirit. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Why is it proposed that the liquid petroleum gas, to be processed from North-West Shelf and Gidgealpa gas deposits, be further converted into motor spirit instead of being sold as liquid petroleum gas. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
What types of petrochemical products are intended to be produced by the petrochemical complex at Redcliffs. 
What is the estimated annual production of these petrochemicals at the Redcliffs complex. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon noice: 
In what areas have exploration activities occurred under the$1m coal exploration program foreshadowed in the Budget. 
How many personnel are employed in the program. 
How much of the Budget allocation has been expended to date. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of the decisive rebuff at the weekend to his request for constitutional power over prices and incomes, is he now prepared to make more intensive and more extensive use of powers already available to him to contain inflation? Will he use the industrial peace conference as a vehicle for discussing such proposals, including areas involving State co-operation, in the same way as the conference was intended to be used to discuss the exercise of the prices and incomes powers? Finally, does he regard the granting of a $27m holiday pay bonus to public servants as a useful step in containing inflation? 
 Mr Speaker,  the Country Party will oppose the second reading of this Bill. We support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  In opposing the second reading, the Country Party will be acting constructively and not destructively. I support the sentiments of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  in the opening paragraphs of his second-reading speech. I support his concept that a high-quality health service should be readily available to all and that Australia's health scheme should expand, rather than inhibit, the opportunities for freedom of choice. I also support the up-grading of hospital and community-based health facilities. 
But the Bill and the White Paper make it clear that the admirable objectives of the Minister will not be achieved under this legislation. The Government does have a mandate to see that high-quality health care is available, but the mechanisms the Minister is trying to introduce are destructive. The Government talks about its mandate. The Opposition has a mandate too. We have a mandate to protect the community at large from the excesses of the Government. We will not abandon our mandate. 
We have tried to point out to the Minister the weaknesses in his proposals, but he has refused to allow himself to be confused by fact! We have tried to emphasise the fundamental point that to achieve the highest standards of health care there must exist a free partnership between governments and the institutions and professions which provide that care - and the present scheme is based on such a partnership. 
Before I speak of the Government's proposals,  Mr Speaker,  I think it is worth asking these questions: What is so wrong with the existing health scheme? Are people generally dissatisfied with it? Of course it needs improvement, and this can be done, but has there been a public outcry against the present scheme? Is it not the case that, far from there being discontent with the present scheme, there is in fact real concern about the Government's new scheme? It is important that we keep these questions in mind, because I believe the vast majority of the Australian people recognise the existing scheme for what it is: One of the best, if not the best, in the world. 
It has some deficiencies and we want to see those deficiencies corrected as past deficiencies have also been corrected. But the whole structure of health care should not be destroyed merely to allow the Labor Government to introduce its own brand of scheme with strong political and philosophical elements built into it. My colleagues, the honourable member for Hotham and the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten),  have said - and I support them - that the deficiences can be corrected by making changes in the present well proven scheme. They have described the things that need to be done. If the Government will follow this course instead of the destructive course it has set for itself it will have our support. 
We have before us 2 Bills from the Minister for Social Security. There are more Bills to come before we have the full scheme before us. But there should be no doubt in the minds of honourable members as to what these first 2 Bills are designed to achieve. They are primarily concerned with hospitals but they also have considerable significance for doctors and the service they provide. The Hospitals and Health Services Commission Bril, which will come before the House shortly, will be the instrument for setting up free community health centres. These centres will sound the death knell of private medical practice as we know it in this country. Once they are set up, private practice will not be able to compete. The ultimate objective is the total control of hospitals through the Department of Social Security and of private medical practice through the Department of Health. 
This legislation is based on the principles of socialism. It will, if passed, affect the lives of every Australian in the area of most importance - his health. It is because the Australian Country Party believes that health is a matter of vital importance to the individual that we oppose this Bill. Health is not a matter in which every Australian should be dependent upon the Government, and this is what the Minister aims ultimately to achieve. Recently the Minister replied to representations I had made on behalf of some persons who had expressed their opposition to nationalised medicine. I want to quote from the Minister's reply because I think it demonstrates the way in which people have been misled about the Government's proposals. For example, the Minister said that the Government was totally opposed to the conscription of people into compulsory medical service and was opposed to nationalised medicine. But the Government apparently is not in the least concerned about conscripting every taxpayer into paying for this scheme. The whole concept of the scheme is one of compulsion through the levying of taxable incomes and the reduction of hospital services to the lowest common denominator in public wards. The Government apparently is not in the least concerned about conscripting and coercing specialists into a sessional system or into general practice. 
Again, the Minister told me that there would be the same freedom of choice of doctor, even in hospitals, as there is now. What the Minister means is that in public wards now the patient is treated by the doctor who happens to be on duty and under his scheme, in which most people are expected to accept public ward treatment, the same thing will apply. But if the patient wants to be treated by his own doctor in hospital he will have to pay the extra cost or take out extra insurance to get into an intermediate or private ward, if he can find one that has not been converted into a public ward. He will be forced to pay into the Government's scheme, but to get the standard of service he wants, which he gets now, and which in the vast majority of cases he is now paying insurance against, he will in future have to pay out an extra amount over and above the compulsory levy. 
This explanation means that the Minister has been deceiving the people to whom he has been replying. So it will be even if they are prepared to accept public ward treatment without being able to choose to have their own doctor to look after them. If they want to have the quality of service most of them are enjoying now, it will be dearer - not cheaper - by the time they pay the compulsory levy. 
What is the situation in Australia under the present system? Over 80 per cent of Australians contribute to hospital and medical funds and about 10 per cent are covered by the pensioner medical service. About  2i  per cent have cover through the armed Services, or because they are war widows or war pensioners, and about 4 per cent of the population have cover under the Queensland scheme. This means that about  3i  per cent of the population are without any kind of health cover. No one would suggest that these people should remain outside the scope of health care. But again I ask: Must we pull down the whole of the present scheme, and destroy the concepts on which it is based, and on which it operates so well, to accommodate this 3 per cent of the population? Certainly it would be desirable to have 100 per cent cover and certainly every person wanting to be in the scheme should have a reasonable chance, but there are some people who will not help themselves. Are these people to be the basis for changing the whole of the present scheme? In the medical services area, the bulk of the population has access under the present scheme to the doctor and specialist of their choice, and pensioners have access to general practitioner services. 
The hospital area is more complex because of differing State administrations, but by and large the majority of people have access to the quality of hospitalisation they require, and pensioners have free public ward accommodation. No patient under the present scheme is denied hospitalisation on financial grounds. The means test is waived and access given to public hospitals on medical need. One of the major reasons for this legislation being introduced is the Minister's conviction that too many people are not covered by the present scheme, but instead of seeking ways to improve the existing scheme and to cover those people, the Minister has simply set out to destroy it and to replace it with socialised medical care. He proposes to scrap the system which has served the people well, and to replace it with an inferior scheme. He wants to bring Australian health care down to the lowest common denominator - all this because the present scheme does not cover a small percentage of the community. Under the proposed scheme, a policy of improvidence will be encouraged, and there will be victimisation of the industrious and the thrifty. 
Let us look at some of the effects of the Minister's proposals. Because the patient will pay the same amount no matter how much medical attention he seeks, there will be an inevitable over-use of doctors. This has been demonstrated beyond doubt in overseas countries with a scheme similar to what is being proposed here. People with little real need of attention will make it increasingly difficult for the genuinely ill to get attention. The pressure of over-use will put an increased burden on doctors, and the quality of service will deteriorate. 
Outpatient departments will suffer in the same way. Pressure will be put on public hospitals to reduce their private and intermediate ward accommodation so that they can cope with the standard or public ward patients. This will reduce choice for patients seeking preferred accommodation, as they are entitled to do now and tas 80 per cent of them at present insure themselves for. 
Under the Labor scheme, of course, those who want intermediate or private accommodation will have to pay extra for it, either directly or by taking out insurance in addition to their compulsory payments through the levy on their income. Private hospitals will be pressured into making public beds available. Once this process starts the Minister can decide the number of beds needed for hospital patients, and the private hospital will lose its autonomy and its character. The Australian people will lose the services which they clearly believe the private and religious hospitals offer and which the people want and are entitled to have. 
The Minister will decide what the cost basis will be for determining payments to private hospitals for the standard hospital beds they will provide, and he will audit the books and accounts of these institutions. In his White Paper he declared he would not interfere with the autonomy and management of these hospitals any more than necessary. What an empty statement. The treatment of private, religious and charitable hospitals is nothing short of vicious. But then we already knew there was no room for then under Labor's health plan. 
The effects of the Labor scheme on specialists will be most significant. The Minister's proposals are designed to reduce the number of private beds in hospitals and the number of private patients. The intention of this reduction is to lessen the opportunities for specialists to practice privately, and to force their acceptance of sessional payments, or their return to general practice - a concept generally accepted by the promoters of the scheme. There is no guarantee that a redundant trained specialist will make a good general practitioner. In fact, the evidence is very much to the contrary. 
Country people have special concern about the Minister's scheme. The proposed arrangements for the access of general practitioners and specialists in country hospitals will mark a significant move away from the present arrangements. There is no guarantee that a country hospital patient will be cared for by his own doctor, and the proposals for sessional payments and the elimination of the honorary system will cause real problems. There are strong grounds for believing that the total effect of the new scheme will be to create serious shortages of medical staff in country areas. 
A lot has been made of the $16 per day payment to the hospitals, and of the funding by the Commonwealth of 50 per cent of the net operating costs of the hospitals. The Government proposes to give the magnificent sum of SI 6  -  an increase of between $3 and $6. The balance will have to be paid out of the pocket of the individual, or by his taking out extra insurance. The sum is inadequate, and the patient, particularly in the middle and lower income groups, who will be hit hardest, will have to take double insurance to cover what he now gets with single insurance. People will be forced, rather than given a choice, to go into public wards. 
Underneath all the fancy words, economic pressure is being applied to patients, to private hospitals and to doctors to make them conform to a single hospital system. Where is the freedom of choice we hear so much about? I assert that the Opposition has a duty to oppose these Bills which provide for the destruction of the health care system in Australia as we know it today. The Opposition cannot support proposals that would destroy a health scheme which is widely regarded as one of the best in the world and which can be improved to make it even better. We cannot support proposals for a scheme which would reduce the quality of health care, and which would - despite the Minister's denials - take away the freedom of choice which we believe the Australian people are entitled to enjoy. 
We cannot support proposals for a scheme which will be more expensive than the existing one, and more costly for the individual taxpayers who want to maintain the standards of care they enjoy under the present scheme. We cannot support proposals which will lead to the taking away from the Australian people of their right to choose, if they wish, to enter private and religious hospitals instead of public hospitals. We cannot support proposals which will lead to the socialisation, and ultimately to the nationalisation, of health and medical care. 
It is clear that the major thrust of the Government's policy in this area is typically socialist in intent, if not in name. It seeks social levelling. It reduces professional standards, individual initiative and personal freedom to the lowest common denominator. In fact we are dealing with an anti-professional ideology. In place of the characteristic Australian philosophy which encourages innovation, initiative and personal choice, the Government by this scheme, seeks to impose a lumbering, bureaucratic monopoly that will stifle all those freedoms that Australians value. It is a blatently dishonest scheme using economic means and coercion to achieve a philosophical result. For all these reasons, I believe this Bill and associated Bills should be withdrawn and replaced by Bills containing proposals further to improve an already good scheme - a scheme which is recognised as one of the best schemes, if not the best scheme, in the world. 
asked the Minister for the 
Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
When were the terms of reference of the committee investigating the flooding of Lake Pedder first made available to the Committee. 
What were those terms of reference. 
Did the Committee subsequently request a change in those terms of reference or were they subsequently changed. 
If so, what were the terms of reference which were ultimately applicable to the committee's deliberations. 
The Australian Country Party supports the amendments moved by the Acting Minister for Education  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  These amendments have been discussed and agreed to and I will take the opportunity of speaking on these education Bills when the Minister brings forward the States Grants (Schools) Bill, which I believe he will do in a minute. 
I have been listening with great interest to the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  My one impression is that talk is cheap, but we certainly would not want to pay too much for what we have heard here this afternoon. It is a lot of ideological jargon, with members of the Government Party imagining that their pie in the sky' philosophy means that the Government can do everything so much better and that private enterprise really does not play a worthwhile role in the community. 
The Bill in its present form represents a major upheaval in policy in the minerals and energy field. As such, it is deserving of the closest scrutiny. Because this scrutiny is denied by lack of time, the Bill will not enjoy the quality of debate it normally would attract in this House. It will receive that scrutiny in the Senate. The result of this and similar situations is that the effectiveness of the House of Representatives is diminished. This chamber offers scope for only a brief expression of certain viewpoints. It is ironic that the only chamber that is able to examine legislation closely is accused of frustrating the will of the people. 
There is no doubt that an increased government control over the minerals and energy industry was both warranted and inevitable. It was warranted because ready access to minerals and energy at reasonable prices will become an increasingly powerful determinant of economic activity. It was inevitable because the Australian people expect their growing sense of national identity to be expressed in the increased control and ownership of their natural resources. It is the acceptable degree of government intervention that is the issue at stake. I believe that a legitimate insistence on increased Australian equity is a consideration separate from, and distinct from, government participation. One involves the decision of individual Australians to invest in particular enterprises; the other involves the Australian Government exercising such a decision on behalf of all citizens, both disinterested and interested. 
I think it reasonable to suppose that most Australians look for national government leadership in the energy crisis, both present and prospective. This crisis is so deep-rooted in its nature and far-reaching in its effects that some direct government interest in the industry is legitimate. Scarce or depleted resources are involved, as are large sums of money to establish new energy programs. Above all, a co-ordinated national approach is required. Such a co-ordinated approach can be implemented effectively with the tools we have. There are clear areas of State and Commonwealth government responsibility. There is a need for greater co-ordination of Commonwealth and State powers and industry planning. This can and should be achieved by a committee which I have suggested previously should be modelled along the lines of the Canadian committee. 
The foundation of a united, integrated and consistent set of rules for minerals and energy development is the role of this Government. It has no mandate and no justification to spend tens of millions of dollars of taxpayers' money in high risk mineral and energy ventures. If greater competition is required, the private enterprise can be regulated to achieve it. If more stringent controls are required, then what is needed is a most efficient use of the existing range of powers. There are a number of grounds on which we totally reject the legislation: Firstly, there is no justification for the massive commitment of taxpayers' money to this area of the economy that cao be and has been effectively served by private initiative. Secondly, adequate powers exist for the regulation of the industry without such massive use of the corporation power. Thirdly, it would be many years before the Corporation would fully play its intended role, and we have not that much time while private enterprise withers in the meantime. Fourthly, the legislation itself is hastily drafted and full of inconsistencies, short cuts, crossed corners, duplications, dangerous precedents and unfettered powers. 
What is needed is not another statutory corporation. What is needed is a revival of activity in the energy industry and some consistency of policy in the overall industry. Even if the Authority were approved by this Parliament, it would commence operations in a partial vacuum. Already it is reported that a 45 per cent reduction can be expected this year in the total well footage drilled. The number of active rigs operating is down by one-third on last year's level. Significant numbers of key personnel are leaving the Austraiian industry to join more attractive operations in other countries. Our present 67 per cent selfsufficiency in petroleum will decline to about 20 per cent in 1980, based on present discoveries. 
The present exploration expenditure is heavily deficient in relation to the estimated $200m needed to maintain the satisfactory program. Between September 1970 and September 1973 it is estimated that this country has saved $773m in foreign exchange from our domestic reserves. The Australian consumer should appreciate the benefits to him of our domestic reserves and our present pricing policy. Import parity is now $2.78 per barrel or 8c per gallon above the negotiated price for domestic crude. This has saved the Australian consumer $14lm over the last 3 years. 
It could be a number of years before the Authority could begin to play an effective role. On present indications, local and overseas personnel recruitment will be difficult. Rigs are scarce, and many key materials are in short supply. The Authority's activities doubtless will be interrupted by legal contests over its constitutional validity and scope. It is essential that private initiates be greatly strengthened. Confidence needs to be restored to the industry. I have already mentioned the share market in a previous speech. Two rigs have left the country this year - one to Singapore and one to New Zealand. Two supply boats have moved to the North Sea because of lack of work here. 
These initiatives will need to be subject to a strict set of guidelines, and not to a series of contradictory ministerial and prime ministerial announcements. The Authority is empowered to explore for and refine petroleum and subsequently transport and sell it even at the retail level. It has similarly extensive powers in the minerals area. No doubt the Minister's rationalisation is that it would constitute a dynamic market force, a new competitive element which would be beneficial. However, it will hardly exercise a stimulatory role if it exercises powers and privileges prohibitive to private enterprise. The Bill contains such prohibitive powers and privileges. 
Under clause 12 (o) it is empowered to take over existing enterprises on such terms and conditions as the Authority deems fit. This clause relates to any such things as acquisition of shores and is unacceptable as it stands. The intention may be honourable, but the safeguards are not there except for the ultimate constitutional guarantee of just terms. 
More specifically, under clauses 43 to 50 of the legislation an act of gazettal and a ratification by a justice of the peace suffice to enable the Authority to explore for and recover petroleum from a declared area. Such a function should be entrusted to a stipendiary magistrate. 
Compensation is payable in the form of royalties to the owner and it is by no means clear whether this will constitute total compensation. In assessing compensation, the court shall take into account work done in the area by the Authority. This is not equitable. It is not difficult to imagine a situation in which the Authority explores for petroleum in an area and expends say $50m in an unsuccessful program. In an adjoining area, a company establishes a significant oil find. There is nothing in this legislation stopping the Authority making its own  gazettal notice  and then prescribing that adjoining area as a petroleum exploration area. 
The Authority may then take over the oil find. A signature of a justice of the peace suffices. He could be the local publican, a school teacher, a builder, a banker - anyone. 
Compensation, if no agreement is reached, is payable by royalty. However, in determining the level of compensation, the court shall take into account the unsuccessful $50m previously expended by the Authority. That may be useful for the taxpayers, but hardly for the company concerned. 
States' rights are overridden. On the instance previously mentioned, it is not clear whether additional royalties would continue to be payable to the State in addition to the owner. Presumably not, because under clause 41 (2) there is a general provision, subject to repeal, that the Authority is not subject to State taxation. In addition, the Authority may, by fully exercising its powers, override State licensing powers and take over a lease which may have been granted by a State government to an individual on specific terms. 
Of course, the massive powers of a Lands Acquisition Act lurk brooding but potent behind these provisions. 
Land or assets acquired shall be acquired under that Act, except that apparently the deal shall be carried out by the Corporation rather than by the Minister and Department of Services and Property. Perhaps the Minister may clarify that aspect, if he can. If so, then land acquired is subject to compensation, albeit on the unsatisfactory basis specified in the Lands Acquisition Act. But if petroleum is found on that land compensation is very limited in scope. Presumably, then, the Authority could take over a lease and recover any energy resources and pay only partial compensation for the resources. Because of these powers it is not difficult to imagine the Authority as a marauder, picking the eyes out of the industry and exercising a development role rather than an exploration role. 
Its finances are based, on the solid rock of taxpayers' money. Initial capital is appropriatedinterest free and without apparent limit. Repayment is indefinite. Working capital is also partially or perhaps mainly derived from similar appropriation of such amounts and on such terms and conditions as the Treasurer determines. It is as simple as that. Ail that is needed is the Treasurer's determination. 
The Australian Industry Development Corporation may lend its money and in this context one part of the AIDC legislation empowers the Parliament to appropriate money on vague terms and conditions to the AIDC for national interest projects - that is, not economic projects but projects of national benefit as defined by the Australian Labor Party. There is nothing stopping the AIDC national interest finance being allocated to this Authority. 
The link becomes more apparent when it is realised that under clause 15 of the Bill the Minister may give directions to the Authority and the Authority shall comply with those directions. In addition, under clause 39 any loss suffered by the Authority in carrying out this directive shall be reimbursed by the taxpayers. This is a carte blanche for ignorant speculation by one man with taxpayers' money. 
In toto, a frightening picture of policy confusion emerges. The AIDC and this Authority overlap. Many aspects of the legislation are similar, although different Ministers are involved. The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  could in theory direct the AIDC to establish a petro-chemical complex and the Minister for Minerals and Energy could independently direct this Authority to establish another. 
The Authority may construct pipelines and transport petroleum. Identical powers are given to the Pipeline Authority. It may serve as an agent for resources diplomacy, an identical function, to the one envisaged by the Minister for Overseas Trade for a proposed new Government trading corporation. The Authority is empowered to seek statistical and geological data to formulate policy and work out energy budgets - functions of the Minister's own Department. A royal commission has just finished hearings on the petroleum industry. Its findings are now prejudged, or at least anticipated. 
Perhaps most importantly, this Bill is indicative of a whole new tier of government emerging - -a statutory corporation. These corporations are empowered to operate perhaps even more strongly than Government departments, staffed by people outside the limitations of the Public Service Act. Powerful and semiindependent, they operate under, the loose supervision of the appropriate Minister. Yet Parliament's control is, at best, tenuous. In this case, it is limited to the approval of sums of money on indefinite terms, and the receipt of annual reports and financial statements. This is not nearly good enough, and it is also not nearly good enough for a range of other corporations and their legislation. 
Let me summarise quite clearly our objections. The Authority would have almost unlimited powers in its area with virtually no safeguards. It will have no apparent limit to the size and the use of its umbilical cord to the national exchequer. The Minister has unlimited powers to give it directions, and any losses suffered by the Authority through destroying those directions will be compensated by the taxpayers. 
The management consists of a small number of ministerial acquaintances and a quorum of three suffices to make decisions. The Secretary of the Minister's Department acts as  chairman  when the  Chairman  is not there. The  Chairman  of the gigantic empire is part-time - that is right, part time. States rights are completely overridden. It pays no State taxation. There is no stated means of involving either the States or the industry in its management or activities. 
It is given an impossible charter, asking it even to make judgments as to when war is impending. It usurps the role of existing institutions, including even the Minister's own Department. It has complete powers to pick the eyes out of the market and appropriate the fruits of past enterprise by others. Compensation procedures are completely inequitable. A local justice of the peace suffices to authorise a take over of assets worth hundreds of millions of dollars. 
In summary, it is one of the most inequitable, unreasonable, excessive, hastilyconstructed and shoddily-conceived pieces of legislation we have yet faced on this side of the House. It denies the principles of common justice and seeks to entrust to a small select group the awesome powers of Commonwealth constitutional authority and public revenue. We oppose it outright. We have no choice. I have pointed out my general misgivings as well as my specific objections. The legislation is repugnant to me. We will fight it all the way, to the last ditch. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Australian Country Party supports the amendment to the schedule that has been presented by the Acting Minister for Education  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  to the States- 
I am sorry,  Mr Chairman.  We support this amendment as we supported the amendment to the Schools Commission Bill earlier. We do so, not because the amendment represents just treatment of all Australian school students. It does not. We support the amendment not because it represents an honouring of the firm pledges made by both the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  last year - because it does not. We support the amendment simply because this is the only way we can see of salvaging something from the Government's utter refusal to honour its obligations and its promises, and its unwillingness to see that common justice is observed in the provision of finance for the benefit of all Australian pupils. We believe that every child, no matter which school he or she attends, is entitled to the benefit of a basic grant from public funds. 
We reject the emotional talk about wealthy schools. If schools are well off as far as facilities are concerned, it is because the parents have provided those facilities. We know that many parents who send their children to private schools are by no means wealthy. But they are prepared to make sacrifices so that they can send their children to schools which they believe offer extra opportunities for their children. In other cases, parents are forced to send their children to private schools because there is simply no other school available to them - and this applies in particular to many country children. In still other cases, of course, there are special circumstances within families which necessitate children attending boarding schools. We say that pupils who attend private schools, often in the circumstances I have described, are entitled, by common justice, to a grant from public funds. Our support for this amendment is a result of our concern that the whole education program for 1974 could have foundered and that parents and students alike were being caused anxiety and concern. 
Let us look at the situation we were facing. The Schools Commission Bill was in limbo, and the States Grants (Schools) Bill was facing rejection. This meant that the whole education program for 1974 and 1975 was in jeopardy if the Government chose to use the situation as a political weapon. The program was in jeopardy not because of any action by the Opposition parties, but because the Government was not willing to accept proposals by the Opposition which would have meant that the undertakings by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education would have been honoured. I believe there was no prospect at all of the Government backing down. This, of course, will remain a matter of conjecture, but from my knowledge of the circumstances I reached the conclusion that an impasse had been reached, and there would be no retreat by the Government. 
The Government was in a position to play the political game very hard and to misrepresent the attitudes of the Opposition. As the Melbourne 'Age* said in its editorial on 29 November, the Prime Minister's presentation of this whole matter was an illusion and a trick. But we were faced with the Government's threat to hold up the whole education program and to blame the Opposition for it, in spite of the fact that we at no time opposed the S694m program, and in fact voted for it. In these circumstances, we believe that there had to be negotiations aimed at resolving the matter. I could see little point in continuing a confrontation which contained a real possibility of jeopardising the whole education program, and the welfare of all of our school pupils. In the face of the Government's adamant refusal to honour the promises made last year, we proposed that these promises be honoured at least in substantial part. I accept the fact that the Labor Party had placed itself in a position from which it found retreat very difficult. If there was to be any resolution, obviously there was a need for negotiation. Speaking in the House, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  and other members on this side of the House, and the Acting Minister for Education, the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  himself, raised the possibility of negotiation. 
Those negotiations have taken place, and the matter now can be resolved. Briefly the result of the negotiations is this: The Country Party will support in the Senate the Schools 
Commission Bill, subject to several amendments which I understand are acceptable to the Government. These amendments will ensure that, firstly, the Commission consults and cooperates with State departments of education and the authorities responsible for and connected with non-government schools; secondly, the highest standards are achieved in both government and non-government schools and that the parents of all children are given the right to choose the kind of education they wish their children to receive, and, finally, that it will he mandatory for the Minister to prescribe by regulation the composition of the State advisory boards and the functions of those boards. These amendments will remove some, but not all, of the Country Party's objections to the Schools Commission Bill. For its part, the Government has agreed to accept in substantial part our proposals on the allocations to non-government schools. These proposals provide in the case of Category A schools that, instead of there being no grant at all in 1974 and 1975, primary schools will receive grants of $55 per pupil in 1974 and $50 per pupil in 1975, and secondary schools will receive grants of $85 per pupil in 1974 and $78 per pupil in 1975. Whilst there is a minor phasing down of the grants to Category A schools, and only to Category A schools, we do not accept this as a fixed principle or a precedent. This amendment does not represent a 'phasing out*. 
For Category B schools, there will be grants of $60 per pupil in primary schools and $90 per pupil in secondary schools in both 1974 and 1975, compared with the Government's original proposal for grants of $45 and $65 in both years. For Category C schools, instead of grants of $60 and $90 in each year as proposed by the Government, the grants now will be $65 and $95 in each year. For Category D schools, the only change is in secondary schools, where the grant will be $102 in 1974 instead of $100 as proposed by the Government. The cost to the Government of providing grants on the basis we wanted, and which the Government last year pledged itself to, would have been $8m over the 2 years. The cost of the amended proposals will be about $6.5m over the 2 years.  Mr Chairman,  I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard a table showing the details of the proposed grants. 
 Mr Chairman,  faced with a situation in which there was a danger that the result would be far worse, and that the entire education program stood to be held up, the Country Party felt that efforts had to be made to bring about a resolution of an impasse which was not in the interests of the education of the children of Australia. I want it to be known quite clearly that there is no disagreement whatever between the Opposition parties on the principle that per capita grants should continue for all students. That is our policy and it will remain our policy. But faced with an immovable Government as far as the full implementation of that policy was concerned, we believed it was in the interests of all students, including those at non-government schools, that a compromise be negotiated. That is what we did. I end with this comment: It should be clearly understood that the matters we are discussing cover the years 1974 and 1975 and only those 2 years. It will remain the policy of the Opposition parties that per capita grants be provided to all Australian pupils. At the end of the 2 year program we will want again to seek the implementation of our policy in full. The Country Party does not agree with or accept the phasing out of aid to any pupil. If we are still in Opposition at the end of the 2 years we will seek to persuade the Government to adopt this policy, which we believe is correct and just. If we are again in government, which is much more likely, we will take the necessary steps to see that our policy is implemented. 

 Mr LIONEL BOWEN (KingsfordSmith)PostmasterGeneral and Special Minister of State) (10.0) - I will be brief in my reply because we have other legislation to deal with this evening. I just want to make it clear that it is wrong for the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  to be emphasising that he ever supported the $694m project. 
The only Opposition member who has ever shown any sense in regard to this matter has been  Senator Rae.  The Opposition in this place did not move even one amendment to the second reading of this Bill on the basis of money that could be available. The Opposition ran away in a cowardly fashion saying that it could not move an amendment because the Standing Orders did not allow for it. The Opposition could have moved an amendment to the second reading of the Bill. 
I am speaking about the question of what the Opposition has done and what it is trying far too late to tell the people it has attempted to do. The Opposition opposed the whole principle of $700m being paid to schools. It went flat out to help those schools which Karmel said might have had some managerial problem but which had no resources problem. 
The Opposition has 2 standards: One for Macquarie Street and one for Canberra. That is its policy. The Opposition should not come in here saying that it wanted 20 per cent which would be enough. It would not be enough because Askin is not even giving 20 per cent to the pupils in New South Wales. But that is the Opposition's policy. It wants 20 per cent to be given by the Commonwealth and 20 per cent by the State. Members of the Opposition do not like hearing the facts, but this is how they have based their approach. We find that out of the New South Wales Liberal Government Budget of$1 81m for education $4m has been provided for non-government schools. What a marvellous effort! No wonder there is need in New South Wales. No wonder there is poverty and over-crowding in schools and poor teachers. Nothing has been done for education under that Liberal philosophy, yet. Members of the Opposition seek to add an even amount to all the uneven sufaces. The effect would be to get the same bad uneven result. The Opposition wants to add exactly the same amount, and that has been its policy all the way through. It still wants an equal amount of per capita grant to be given to each pupil regardless of what school he attends. The Opposition has never at any stage looked at the needs concept. 
If we examine the fees charged by category A schools we find that in New South Wales three of these schools are charging more than $900 a year - eight are charging more than $800 a year. In Victoria we find that one category A school is charging more than $1,100 a year, three are charging more than $1,000 a year and five are charging more than $900. Liberal policy is to give students attending these schools the same amount of money as will be given to youngsters in under-privileged areas. Never at any stage has the Opposition looked at the needs principle. The only reason that we have agreed to the proposition put forward tonight is because the Schools Commission has been approved by this Parliament on the basis that a needs concept exists. If that Commission had not been agreed to there would be no point in debating this issue. 
We would much rather take this issue to the people on the basis of what we believe to be a proper distribution of resources, but do not let us fool around with that issue. I want to extend some congratulations to the Australian Country Party which contains some men of wisdom who realised that we looked like going to the people to fight for $6m to be given to the wealthy schools, which is what the Liberal Party wanted. The Government decided that now that the Commission has been agreed to it would not be so miserly as to not extend some additional grants. However, we do not accept the principle put forward by the Opposition. We have compromised on the basis that we got the Schools Commission. We will fight the next election on this principle. Let us say that perhaps for once and for all we have taken out of the auction the State aid vote. For once we might get rid of this matter in the interests of this nation, and I believe that that is the best thing that could happen. But whilst ever the Opposition runs around opening science blocks- 
 This is one adjournment debate in which a member of this House may speak for unlimited time. I do not know whether it would be appreciated if I used that privilege which is given to me. This is a time for one to express appreciation of the work that people have done in enabling this Parliament to keep going. I had hoped to speak this afternoon, during the debate on the ministerial statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  about some of the things which he has not done. I had listed 25 points in regard to Government actions which are harming primary industry. But I guess that will have to wait for a speech that I will make at some later date. 
I support the remarks of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in expressing thanks to the many people who help to make the Parliament function. I express my personal appreciation to you,  Mr Speaker,  for the work that you have done, for the trials and tribulations which you have suffered and for the patience and tolerance which you have shown. I have not helped. I can remember one occasion on which you were a little trigger-happy and you threw me out of the chamber.  Sir, I  accept that I deserved that treatment and I have no recriminations at all in regard to the incident. I probably deserved to be treated in that way on many more occasions. However, I will not say that all of my colleagues who have been thrown out deserved to be treated in that way to the extent that I did.  Mr Speaker  you have done your job to the best of your ability and you have shown impartiality. I thank you for the way in which you have conducted this House, under great pressure and trials. My appreciation also goes to  Mr Scholes,  who has shown great ability in the management of the chamber from the Chair during the Committee stage of Bills. He has enabled work to proceed quickly and promptly. 
In conclusion, I wish everybody in this House a happy Christmas and, most impor tantly, a healthy 1974. I know the enormous pressure under which Ministers have to live. I notice that their faces are becoming a little more lined and a little more pale. I have lived through this experience. However, I want to say how very sorry I am that  Mr Beazley  is not here today.  Mr Beazley,  who has had a tremendous job to do in bringing forward a new education program, is sick at the moment. I just hope that ill-health does not befall any more of us. 
I join the 
Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the 'Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in their remarks to the condolence motion for the Honourable D. A. Cameron, O.B.E. Donald Cameron was a Minister of the Crown when I entered Parliament and I have very warm and kindly thoughts about him. When I came to this Parliament I was a very young member, and what I noted immediately about Donald Cameron was his generosity to new members and his willingness to help and to be friendly. He and his wife made a very attractive couple who helped many young people, and not only in this Parliament. They were noted in the community for the interest that they took in young people. He had a very full life. Being a medical doctor, he served his community well. That service was no doubt the reason why he was elected as its representative. He served his country. He served the Crown as a Minister. He was a diplomat. May I express my pleasure at being able to make these not over-generous remarks about a person who was a first-rate citizen and who will be long remembered. I express the sympathy of members of the Australian Country Party, particularly those who knew his wife, and wish her and her family well in their bereavement. 
We are discussing a group of Bills relating to the Government's desire to hold referendums on a number of questions. I think it is rather a ludicrous situation that we should be asked to debate together 4 Bills which are all very important Bills dealing with the Constitution. But the situation is made more ludicrous because the 2 referendum questions on which the people recently voted and which might have had some appeal to the Australian people were overwhelmingly defeated because the Australian people were suspicious of the motive of the present Government, which is to bring about unitary or centralised Government. 
To imagine that the Australian people would accept the new referendums is just kidding oneself beyond belief. I think that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  does not care. He has set this course and he is going to follow it irrespective of what happens.  His  conceit is too important for him to back down at this stage. It might be to the electoral advantage of the Government to hold these referendums. Because these questions would be decided at the same time as a Senate election is held the attention of the people may be diverted away from the domestic issues. This might help Labor in the Senate campaign. The questions to be asked certainly will be defeated. It is the job of the Opposition parties - the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party - to see that they are, because they are important in determining the destiny of this country. 
In the short time that is available to me I will concentrate only on two or three of the Bills. Firstly I would like to deal with the Bill which has a very curious reference in its title to democratic elections - the Constitution Alteration (Democratic Elections) Bill. This is a euphemism for the Government's plans to tamper with the electoral system for its own advantage. That is what the proposal is all about, no matter what fancy language the Prime Minister might use about democratic principles. The Government hopes that the Australian people, through ignorance of what they are doing, will become accomplices in the Labor Party's plans to seriously damage the democratic processes. 
The genuineness of the Prime Minister's concern for democracy is put to a very severe test when we set his statements against his intentions. For example, he claims that 40.3 per cent of the population of Victoria can elect a government, and 44.1 per cent of the population of Queensland can elect a government. Yet this crusader for enlightened democracy wants to introduce in Australia a voting system which would result in much smaller percentages of the population electing governments. Under the first past the post system which the Prime Minister intends to impose upon Australia even 30 per cent or 20 per cent of the voters might be able to elect a candidate, or elect a government. What price democracy then? We have just seen an election in Britain under the first past the post system.  Mr Wilson's  Labour Party, with the support of 37.2 per cent of the voters, is to govern. Over 60 per cent of the British people voted against that Party. That is the kind of enlightened democracy for which this Australian Labor Government stands. 
The Prime Minister's bleatings about democracy should be exposed for what they are - clever words designed to mask his plans to prostitute the electoral system of this country and to extend far greater any deviations he imagines are contained in the present law. He wants to institute a voting system which does not reflect the wishes of the people. The preferential voting system does reflect the wishes of the voters, not perfectly but to the greatest extent possible under our method of dividing the nation into electorates represented by a single member. The Prime Minister wants to take a giant leap backwards to a system that takes away from the people their right to elect the kind of government they think is best for this country. He stands for minority government, not government which reflects the wishes of the people as a whole. But we do not have to look ahead to first past the post voting to discover the Labor Party's forked tongue. We need look no further than the Bill before the House. 
The Government's motives in bringing forward this Bill the first time have already been exposed, but in view of the Government's persistence in this attack on the electoral system those motives must be exposed again. The Labor Party's objective is to give the Labor Party an electoral advantage. Whatever the Prime Minister may say, that is his objective and everyone knows it. The Government tried to do this last year with the Commonwealth Electoral Bill and failed. Now it is taking another tack. The astonishing thing is that what is being put to the Australian people now is a proposal that takes us much further away from Labor's long held principle of one vote one value than we have been, or would have been under the Government's proposals in the Commonwealth Electoral Bill. The present proposal is that electorates should have equal numbers of people as distinct from equal or nearly equal numbers of voters. If this proposal is put into effect we will see the Labor Party gaining enormous advantage at the cost of sound and democratic electoral principles. For example, if this proposal had been operating at the time of the 1969 election the greatest advantage in Victoria would have gone to 8 Labor seats, and a disadvantage to 11 Liberal seats. Again if this proposal had been operating in 1969 there would have been 38,788 voters on the roll in the electorate of Melbourne and 64,709 voters in Diamond Valley. 
This is the kind of distortion of the electoral system which this great champion of democracy, the Prime Minister, wants the Australian people to approve at a referendum. What an insult to the intelligence of the Australian people. What a revelation of the Labor Party's professed respect and manifest contempt for democratic principles. Surely if anyone had any doubts about the Prime Minister's motives this attempt to secure political advantage by manipulation of the electoral system would have dispelled them. Clearly the objective is to fiddle with the electoral laws to give the Labor Party more seats, and the prime target in this assault is not the Country Party, as it usually is, but the Liberal Party. One can have some sympathy for the Labor Party's traditional espousal of the principle of one vote one value even though one cannot excuse the Labor Party's utter lack of understanding of the reasons why this theoretical principle cannot be applied with justice in a country like Australia. But one cannot, no matter how hard one tries, find any reason to sympathise with the Labor Party's efforts now to change the electoral system in a way that completely ignores one vote one value. This is nothing more than a blatant and contemptuous move to gain political advantage by a gerrymander of a magnitude that makes anything that has ever happened before quite insignificant. That such a sweeping gerrymander should be proposed by the Labor Party is one of the great ironies of Australian politics. 
Another proposal in this Bill is that the States should be told how to manage their own affairs. The Prime Minister says the States must change the methods they use to elect their parliaments. What business is it of the Prime Minister - a Prime Minister, remember, who is going all out to perpetrate the worst example of electoral fiddling and funny business to help his Party that this country has ever seen? If there is a need for State constitutions to be changed, surely it is for the people of the States concerned to make that decision and not a Prime Minister determined to crush the States and dedicated to the establishment of a unitary system of government. 
The Constitution Alteration (Mode of Altering the Constitution) Bill, while it has a complicated title has a very simple purpose. Its purpose is to make it easier to change the Commonwealth Constitution. Its purpose is to make it easier for the Labor Party to do the things it wants to do but which it knows it cannot do unless the method of changing the Constitution is watered down. The Labor Party knows that many of the things it wants to put to the Australian people in referendums will be rejected, as they should be, but it hopes that by lowering the threshold, by making it easier to change the Constitution, it might be able to get some of its changes through. I hope the Australian people realise the dangerous course being followed by this Government. 
The Constitution Alteration (Local Government Bodies) Bill seeks to take two constitutional proposals to the people for judgment. The first is to empower the Parliament to borrow on behalf of local government bodies and the second is to empower Parliament to make grants for financial assistance direct to local government. As part of this objective local government would be given direct representation on the Australian Loan Council. The immediate consideration is whether these questions are reasonable ones to place before the Australian people for decision. In the view of the Australian Country Party it is reasonable to suggest special arrangements to assist the financial position of local government. It is not reasonable to propose fundamental constitutional amendments as being a necessary condition to do this. If the people are to be asked to exercise a choice it should be clearly established that the proposition before them seeks to alter the Constitution because it is both necessary and desirable to do so. It is neither necessary nor desirable to alter the Constitution to assist local government. 
The financial problems of local government have been well documented and relate mainly to its serious debt burden and inability to increase revenue at a sufficient rate. The aggregate debt of local government bodies amounted to $600m in 1960 but a decade later totalled $ 1,600m. It has increased at a faster rate than has State government and Federal government debt and its legacy is an unevenly distributed but generally substantial interest burden. The increase in local government revenue has been less marked than the increase recorded for Commonwealth receipts, being 94 per cent between 1960 and 1970 compared with 128 per cent for the Commonwealth. This situation has been accentuated considerably in recent years. 
It is the view of my Party that the Labor Government's approach to the problems of local government is wasteful of resources and confuses administrative authority. The expansion of the operations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission to promote equality between regions as well as States is a duplication of existing State government expertise and administrative structure. For example, the New South Wales local government assistance fund was set up in 1969 to provide additional assistance to local government on much the same basis as the newly enlarged Grants Commission. It started with $4m and now allocates $6.5m annually with the intention to increase this to $10m by the end of the lifetime of the current New South Wales Parliament. Indeed a New South Wales Grants Commission exists to administer this fund and assess the relative financial requirements of local government bodies. The New South Wales Department of Local Government employs about 140 people involved in local government matters. This expertise and these channels will be duplicated and consequently wasted. I ask whether it is consistent with the overriding abjective of efficient allocation of resources to duplicate the functions of entire State departments, of entire State commissions and expert committees by the establishment of additional Commonwealth bureaucratic apparatus. 
One may expand on the political implications of the legislation, on the implications of a loan council in which State governments would be outvoted, and on the implications for regional planning of direct government allocations to local government capital expenditure. Road works by local councils would be at the direction of Canberra, as would library projects, bridge construction, kerbing and guttering, water supply and the whole range of local government activities. This financial leverage will carry in its train, as a logical consequence, political control, yet the castrated State governments would retain the meaningless constitutional responsibilities of legal control over local government. 
The Country Party's approach is positive and logical. We recognise the compelling nature of the problems of local government, but emphasise that financial arrangements must serve and strengthen the Constitution, not undermine it Given the existence of existing State government machinery and expertise, it is a more rational use of resources to increase the flow of Commonwealth funds through those existing, or enlarged, channels. We would seek to make local government not simply a passive recipient of increased finance, but would seek to ensure that it was well equipped to make effective use of additional assistance. We recognise that even if Commonwealth borrowings on behalf of local government authorities resulted in very marginal benefit in interest rate repayments, the problem of debt servicing would remain, and we see strong local government administration as one means of ensuring financial strength. 
We call for a meeting to be held with State Premiers to identify the scope and nature of local government requirements and shortfalls. This conference could establish the magnitude of assistance required over a fiveyear period and the relative contributions of State and Commonwealth governments. The objective would be to establish a 5-year program on a continuing basis to help equalise the facilities available in richer and poorer local government areas - that is, on a needs basis. In line with this approach there is no need to establish new regions through an expanded Grants Commission and impose political change for financial purposes. The Commonwealth assistance could be channelled through State machinery, such as the New South Wales Grants Commission, on the basis of priorities determined by State governments and their advisers. 
We see the need for assistance to be on a grants basis in recognition of a serious indebtedness position. The Loan Council borrowing entitlements for local authorities can be enlarged if required. In the meantime we believe that it is important that local government be encouraged to take full advantage of the financial resources available to them. There may be some scope for councils charging for some services which are free. 
The legislation to expand the operations of. the Grants Commission duplicates State Government expertise. It will no doubt impose profound political change as a consequence of financial change. It creates political units not as a response to community pressure, but on the assumption that future demand could be stimulated and anticipated. This legislation is similar in character. It leaves the States impotent, like flowers in a vase, fair to behold but doomed to wither. It does not even offer major financial gains to offset the decisively heavy political liabilities of this legislation. 
Again, to use the New South Wales example, loan programs are organised by the local government bodies through the banking system. But these applications must be approved by the New South Wales Government which screens the financial ability of local government to service commitments under the long-standing Loan Council gentlemen's agreement. What we need is clarification of whether or not the Commonwealth is going to help contribute to alleviate the financial indebtedness of the State governments. On balance, the only advantage of Commonwealth loan raising for local authorities would be a possible marginal benefit in the interest rates on borrowed money. Against this must be offset the possibility of increased interest rates payable by State governments, the increased concentration of borrowing power in Canberra and the duplication of existing machinery in State departments and, indeed, local authorities. The debt servicing problem remains, as would the broad problem.  (Extension of time granted.)  I thank the House. Certainly a reduction in overall interest rates from their present high levels would be of more benefit. 
The allocation of Commonwealth grant assistance is desirable, but should be on the basis of an agreed long-term program and should be distributed at the individual discretion of State governments. For these reasons we oppose this legislation as a wronglydirected answer to local government finance problems. We propose positive alternatives instead. We look for increased quality of local government administration and an increased flow of Commonwealth grant finance through State government channels. We reject the Bill for its political implications and financial inadequacies. We therefore recommend that the Australian people vote firmly 'no' on this question of involving the Commonwealth in local government affairs, as we recommend a no' vote to the other 3 questions that are before the House at the moment. 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, relates to the incident which occurred last Thursday afternoon when there was an armed seizure of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I ask the Prime Minister whether a report was presented to him, or did he call for a report, on the circumstances, and in that report was he told that the revolver or pistol was loaded? If he was told it was loaded, why was this information withheld from the Australian Capital Territory Police and from the court? 
My question to the Prime Minister is a follow-up to the question I asked him earlier. Can he inform the House when he first learned that the gun was loaded? Was it only after the information had been prised out of his Ministers in the Senate yesterday? Can he now explain why arrangements were made to withhold from the police the information about the siege? Who made the decision that the information was to be withheld? Finally, does the Prime Minister agree that the withholding of this information and the deception practised concerning the condition of the gun carried by  Mr McLeod  resulted in the court being misled? Does he agree that if there is not a full public inquiry into these matters and into the attempts to cover up the real story there must remain a very real suspicion that there has been a conspiracy to mislead the court and the public and to deny the administration of justice? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. In the course of question time the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  referred to 3 ex-Ministers for the 
Interior who were Country Party Ministers. He referred to them as having racist antiAboriginal sentiments. This statement I resent. It is wrong in substance and it is wrong in detail. Firstly, only 2 of the ex-Ministers to whom he referred were substantially involved in Aboriginal affairs because they had charge also of the Northern Territory. I was the third ex-Minister for the Interior to whom he referred. I was not responsible for Aboriginal affairs under my portfolio at that time. So far as the other 2 ex-Ministers are concerned I believe that the record now shows- 
The charge was made that 3 Country Party ex-Ministers were racist and anti-Aboriginal. This is a fairly serious charge. I believe that it does not apply to them and, in the light of experience, it has been indicated that there is a lot of satisfaction with the competent way which these men held their portfolio and their handling of their portfolios was certainly not a disaster. 
The Prime Minister will be aware of the very serious flood situation on the north coast of New South Wales where river levels have reached record heights. He will also be aware that cyclone Zoe is approaching the area raising fears of further disaster than that which has already occurred. Will the Prime Minister give his assurance that the Government will provide whatever assistance is sought by the State emergency services and that financial relief will be provided on the same basis as has applied to other recent floods? 
I wish to direct my question to the Minister for Labour. The Minister will be aware of the very serious flooding which has occurred on the north coast of New South Wales. Will he give urgent consideration to providing special unemployment relief funds to enable councils to undertake the very big job of cleaning up the mess left behind by the floods and of repairing the great amount of damage that has occurred? Unemployment in this area was serious even at the time of the ending of the unemployment relief scheme. What progress has he made in bringing forward an alternative scheme, if any, about which he spoke last year? In any case, will he give urgent consideration to the new problem that has been caused by the floods? 
After listening to the diatribe of political garbage from the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Whan)  there is hardly need to reply to many of his comments. But one would have thought, when this issue was being discussed in the public arena - Australia's fuel prices and its future reserves - that more than a junior backbencher might have led in the discussion of this issue. Instead, we see the Government using this backbencher in a desperate bid to show some genuine interest in the rural producers. He is trying to salvage the disastrous record of the Government's rural policy. He is throwing to the wind all sense of responsibility for the national interest to try to get an immediate political advantage. 
But if he is so genuinely concerned about the rural producers where was he when the Government, in the last Budget, put up petrol prices by 5c a gallon and by 7c a gallon to rural producers? That increase of 7c a gallon is equivalent to increasing the price to oil producers by 140 per cent. Where was he when the Government talked about reducing the tax concessions to rural producers? We know where he was; he was supporting the abolition of the tax concessions. Where was he when it was stated that the superphosphate bounty would be removed? He has been hiding ever since. Where was he when the dairy subsidy was discussed? He has not been to the south coast since is was announced. Where was he when the tax on meat exports was discussed? He supported the imposition of that tax. Where was he when the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  did a deal with the Shell Company of Australia Limited to go before the Prices Justification Tribunal to increase the price of liquefied petroleum gas, fuel oil and bitumen - three vital ingredients for country communities - by 100 per cent? Where was he? What is the Government's attitude? It is showing no concern or interest in country people whatsoever. If the Labor Party is so concerned about reviewing oil prices, why does it not go back to what it did when in Opposition? Why does it not go back to the words of one of the most senior Ministers in the Government, the Minister for the North ern Territory and Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)? 
On 19 April 1972 he moved for discussion as a matter of public importance the following issue: 
The failure of the Government to implement positive policies to encourage and maintain the progressive exploration of Australian oil resources. 
I quote a section from his speech which appears on page 1788 of Hansard of that date. He stated: 
If the Federal Government does not drastically change its exploration subsidy and domestic pricing policies, and aim towards a goal of self-sufficiency in oil production, Australia will become progressively at the mercy of the overseas oil companies as our oil resources will progressively diminish. The domestic price of Australian crude oil should be increased immediately to a figure equivalent to the world parity price. 
This is what his own Party - the Labor Party - said when in Opposition. It is far from anything we are suggesting to increase prices to world parity. All we are suggesting is that the matter ought to be reviewed in the long term and the short term interests of Australian consumers and to ensure that we have adequate supplies to meet Australian requirements. 
On 7 November last year I raised for discussion as a matter of public importance: 
The Government's failure to take adequate steps to respond to the prospective future shortage of domestically produced petroleum products. 
In that discussion I attacked the Government for its neglect of the long nurtured oil exploration industry - neglect which has resulted in a very serious run down in exploration at a time when exactly the opposite should be occurring. Since that debate, the situation has got worse. At a time of a world energy crisis, we see only pitiful mismanagement, incompetence and lack of foresight by the Minister for Minerals and Energy. We have seen a series of Government actions which have discouraged exploration and which are driving explorers away from Australia. 
Income tax concessions on capital subscribed to oil and mining companies have been abolished. The petroleum search subsidy is to end in June this year. Overseas investors, whom we must have in our own interests, have been virtually driven away by the requirement that they make a one-third deposit with the Reserve Bank of Australia, free of interest. As if all this was not enough, we have a Minister who, apart from being incapable of making consistent statements or carrying out consistent administration, abuses people in industry and sponsors legislation that frightens the life out of anyone thinking of investing in oil exploration in Australia. 
Let us have a look at the exploration picture. The Minister boasts that there will be 54 off-shore wells drilled this year. But there were 62 drilled in 1970. What a boom in oil drilling! Most of the 54 off-shore wells are as a result of lease obligations at present entered into and are mainly wildcats. No new companies are involved. This year there will be a total of 90 off-shore and on-shore wells drilled - one-third fewer than in 1972. And in the last 5 years there have been 758 wells drilled, or an average of 157 a year. This year 90 wells will be drilled, at a time of a world oil crisis and declining Australian reserves. This is the sorry state Australia's oil exploration program has been reduced to by the incompetence of the Minister and the Government. 
Fewer than half the oil companies are planning any geophysical surveys this year. Many of them are transferring their interests to overseas areas where there are governments that understand what the oil business is all about, and which want to serve their own national interests. I saw reports in Saturday's Canberra Times', and today's 'Sydney Morning Herald', saying that this year's 54 off-shore wells would compare with a total of only 40 wells over the last 10 years. There were 62 off-shore wells drilled in 1970 alone with fluctuations up and down since then. This shows the lengths to which this Minister will go to attack the oil industry, and to attack me and my Party. Anyone who will feed such deliberately wrong information to the Press must be pretty desperate for ammunition to support his arguments. 
But let us return to the exploration scene. Why is there this slight upsurge in drilling off-shore this year - an upsurge that still leaves us way behind previous performances? One major reason is that explorers are going to forfeit half their leases next year, and they must, therefore, try to find the best ones to hang on to. They do not want to spend money on drilling under the shadow of the Government's threats; they simply have to. But what are other explorers doing? They are leaving the country - walking out - because they just cannot operate under the kinds of policies this Government has brought in. That is something for the Minister to be really proud of. 
We need to look very carefully at our position in a world becoming increasingly short of fuels. At present Australian oilfields provide about two-thirds of the feed stock for the 10 domestic refineries. The oil discoveries in Bass Strait have reduced our imports from 148 million barrels a year to 63 million. But, from industry reports, this large degree of selfsufficiency is expected to slump to only about 15 per cent in less than 10 years unless we find some major new oilfields. We should be going all out to find them. The industry says that there needs to be an expenditure of approximately $200m a year on exploration if we are to maintain our present reserves. Instead, because of the menacing, threatening attitudes of this Minister, we are spending half that amount, and there is no sign of any improvement. The actions of this Government, and the pricing arrangements for crude oil, all work together to act as a major disincentive to exploration. This is a tragic situation, and one for which the Minister must accept full responsibility. 
Let us look at the Country Party's approach to this question of crude oil pricing. I have never seen such a torrent of misrepresentation by a Minister, or anyone else, on such a forthright, direct and honest statement as that in which I set out my Party's policy. We are very concerned, as everyone should be, about the future of Australia's energy supplies. We see one of the important factors militating against the sensible, proper and urgent development of our resources as being the price which Australian oil producers currently receive. As a result explorers are leaving Australia and endangering our future. The only way we can safeguard our future is by finding large reserves of oil, and the only way we can provide fuel to the Australian people at reasonable prices is by doing the same thing - finding oil. The only way we can find oil is by offering a reasonable return to those who are prepared to look for it, find it and develop it. 
But let us look at the way this matter has been distorted and misrepresented by the Minister. I have seen news reports to the effect that the Minister claims our approach would double the price of petrol to the consumer. This is a complete fabrication. What is our approach? We have suggested that the present pricing arrangements should be reviewed. That is all we have suggested. We have made no reference whatever to actual prices; we have mentioned no figures. Yet the Minister for 
Minerals and Energy has done some remarkable mental arithmetic and come up with the answer that our approach would mean a doubling of the price of petrol and other fuels. This is a malicious and deliberate distortion, and can have been done for only one reason - to flay my Party and to make political capital. And why? Because we have had the political courage to say what had to be said about this matter. If the Minister and the Government lack the political courage to speak out about these things, we in the Country Party do not. We are quite prepared to put up with the abuse and the vilification of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro and everyone else, because we believe this matter is too important to the future of this nation to be buried under the prejudices and incompetence of the Australian Labor Party. 
The Country Party has not suggested, despite the efforts of the Government to suggest we have, that the price paid to Australian producers should go up to world parity. We have not said anything like that. All we have suggested is that, in the interests of achieving the exploration we urgently need, there should be some review of the pricing structure to work out how best the interests of both the consumers - short and long term - can be met and also how we can ensure a continuing search for oil so that we are not left to the mercy of foreign oil supplies. I wonder how many people know that the price the oil producer receives is 5 cents a gallon? How many people know that the excise is 22.3c a gallon and that the increase of 5c that was brought in in the last Budget - the largest increase in excise that we have ever seen in one hit - is equivalent to what the oil producers in Australia receive today? If the oil producers received a 100 per cent increase in price, they would receive an increase of the same amount by which this Government raised the price of petrol for city dwellers in the last Budget and 2c less than the amount by which this Government raised the price of petrol to people in country areas. So let not this Government say that it is in favour of cheap oil policies because the Government's excise policy does not show it. No one is suggesting for a moment that there should be an increase in the price of petrol of anything like 100 per cent. What we say is that if Australian producers are forced to continue to accept a price much less than the world price, is it any wonder that they are leaving Australia and going else where? Even Australian companies are leaving Australia and going elsewhere to look for oil. 
Let us look at the real bugbear in the whole business about which the Labor Party is concerned. The Labor Party seems to be concerned about the profits that Esso-BHP is making. That is what has really upset the Labor Party. It just cannot stand the thought that it is making a profit. The oil reserve is only a temporary one. It will run out in 10 years. The profit has to be there to risk the capital involved. How are exploration companies going to be encouraged to spend money if they do not know that they can make a reasonable profit? What the Labor Party has forgotten is that there are 40 or 50 other companies in Australia which are not making any profit at all or very little profit. So to tailor the whole oil policy to the operations of one oil company is quite absurd. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  At question time today the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  misrepresented me and the Country Party in stating that our policy was to raise the price of Australian produced crude oil to world parity. This is a complete fabrication. It seems impossible for the Minister to say 2 words in succession without some deliberate misrepresentation. Respect for the truth by him does not seem to be evident. The policy of my Party is that there should be a review of the price of locally produced crude oil - no more and no less. Any statements to the contrary by the Labor Party and the Minister are purely a fabrication for political purposes. It does them no merit whatsoever. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa) -  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I understand that whenever I go to any country . where there are, or are thought to be, political prisoners that I will ask questions about it. 
What I said was: 
I will be asked questions about it. 
The other quotation related to a question in which I was asked: 
Have you made any representations to the United States on this matter 
I am reported as replying: 
I have discussed it with their representative here. 
I used the plural. 
Firstly, 1 should like to thank the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  for making a statement bringing us up to date with the Government's secondary industry policy. I believe this is the first statement that the Minister has made relating to secondary industry. 
 The Minister may have made speeches, which he seems to do at the drop of a hat at any time, but this is the first statement of Government policy and it is an important document which enables people to gauge the Government's attitude. I see this document as being almost a duplication of a document that I could have prepared while I was Minister for Secondary Industry. There is nothing new in it with the one exception that a small business bureau is to be established. This I commend, but this has been as a result of an inquiry carried out by  Mr Wiltshire  and information provided to the Government which I supported suggesting that such a bureau should be established. The remainder of the document is nothing more than rhetoric. It is part of a Government program to win the hearts of the businessmen of Australia. 
In Sydney last week we saw the pitiful performance of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at the annual conference of the Institute of Directors where he made a speech which went off like a lead balloon. In it he begged the business community to have confidence in the Government because the Government wanted to help business. He suggested there should be a close and warm relationship between the two. But how could business have an affinity with this Government at the moment, this Government which is creating uncertainty and confusion within the business community? There is just a mul titude of decisions, statements and legislation coming into the Parliament which is creating this predicament for the business section. People in this sector are not sure whether they should invest in expansion of their bus.nesses or just take a standstill position in the hope that the Government will not remain in office too long. Do you wonder that they should hold such an attitude when they see the burgeoning Commonwealth Public Service and the wages and conditions which it is being given which, when they flow on to the public sector of the community, will make it nearly impossible for businessmen to show any degree of profit? They will be in the red very soon if they have to try to balance their books with the wage conditions that are now being established by the Commonwealth Public Service. Do you wonder that they are apprehensive and concerned when they see this rather useless Prices Justification Tribunal operating and giving nothing more than official approval for price rises ali the time and not attacking the multitude of price rises which go on in chain stores and small businesses, which the Tribunal knows is a practice which it is hopeless to try to control? Already the Tribunal is overburdened with work in its examination of the large companies which it is trying to control. If the Tribunal holds down prices too much people just will not produce. If the Tribunal fails to allow normal economic circumstances to prevail then we will not get production. 
Because of the Government's policy and the industrial trouble that is taking place we are seeing a growth in shortages in materials and goods such as we have never seen in this country since the immediate post-war years. It is a nightmare for business and manufacturers to try to keep up with the boom demands that exist at the moment and to get adequate supplies of machinery. Do you wonder that they are concerned when you hear of a Government's support of a proposal to introduce a 35-hour week, when you hear of the government wanting to bring back quarterly adjustments of wages which will mean that there will be a ratcheting effect on costs and prices every quarter which will lead to an alarming inflationary situation? The Minister for Secondary Industry tries to paint a rosy picture of the economic buoyancy. But heavens above, would there not be some buoyancy with inflation running at least at 13 per cent per annum? Goodness knows what the rate of inflation will be by the time we finish this year. 
The honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards),  who spoke before me in this debate, pointed out the implications of the revaluation of the currency, two of which were no more than arbitrary decisions of this Government to try to redirect resources away from export industries to import industries. But that has been a dismal failure, because we have not seen any reduction of import prices as a result of that decision. All we have found is that a greater impost has been placed on the export industries, of which manufacturers make up a considerable part. We have seen a series of doctrinaire type legislation being brought into this Parliament which can do no more than put fear into business that there will be greater Government intrusion into their affairs and that they will be directed what to do and in some cases fears that their industries could be nationalised. It is little wonder that they are worried about this Government when interest rates are skyrocketing, making it more difficult for them to be able to meet their commitments. It is becoming more difficult to obtain equity capital because people do not want to invest in basic industries at the moment. They are seeking out more speculative high return areas of the economy rather than putting their money into sound long term investments such as our secondary industries. 
These are some of the reasons why secondary industry is concerned about the attitudes of the present Government. Certainly the Minister has not been too deeply involved or outspoken about secondary industry up to now. I hope that he does not get too deeply involved or interested because we can see a path of devastation that he left behind in the Australian Capital Territory when he thought he knew how to run the affairs in Canberra. Let us hope that he does not get too deeply involved and that he allows things to run their normal course in secondary industry. A rate of inflation running at 13 per cent is causing great concern to manufacturers. The effect of this is that a great deal of industrial trouble is being caused. It is normal that industrial trouble will arise in such circumstances. 
For the last quarter of 1973 243,000 days were lost due to industrial disputes in the manufacturing sector. This was an increase of 42 per cent on the same quarter in the previous year, which was the last year of the LiberalCountry Party Government. If that rate of time lost due to industrial disputes is to increase then costs must go up and shortages must get worse. The signs of structural unemployment, with the high level of unfilled vacancies, as well as about 98,000 people unemployed, must be causing great concern in some sections of industry. 
The Minister has referred to the development of a more general and permanent long term program of adjustment assistance as well as an integrated manpower policy. What has happened to this integrated manpower policy? Perhaps we should have had that spelt out with the decision set out in the Minister's statement. We know that the Government's policy is broadly to cut all tariff protection by 25 per cent. No doubt there was a need for a quick examination of the levels of protection for industries that had been examined for a considerable period of time to try to offset some of the inflationary pressures in the community. But there was no discrimination whatsoever. If ever it was highlighted how ludicrous it was to make such a broad band decision this was done last week when the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who is the Minister responsible for handling Tariff Board matters, brought forward recommendations which suggested a certain level that the Tariff Board had recommended on top of which there was to be a further 25 per cent reduction because the examination  of  these items had taken place when the Government had made its decision. This means either that the Tariff Board was too generous in its decision or else the Government's reduction of a further 25 per cent will impose an unfair penalty on industries which are trying to establish some protection against imports overseas. Is it any wonder that the secondary industry sector of the community, which relies on protection, is so concerned when we get these sorts of crazy decisions being made by the Government which are completely unfair and unjust? 
We have the situation now, because our export industries have been hurt and imports are tending to come in to a greater degree, that our balance of payments position needs to be watched very closely.  Sir John  Crawford drew attention to this factor last weekend in a statement that he made. He pointed out that the fall in capital inflow posed dangers for the economy. On present local and overseas trends Australia's external current account surplus of $677m for 1972-73 may be replaced by a considerable current account deficit for 1973-74. Perhaps this deficit will considerably widen later on 'this year. In the 5 months that ended November last imports of transport equipment were up 58 per cent. Imports of textile products were up 50 per cent and exports of iron and steel were up 95 per cent. We ought 'to be able to produce enough Mee in this country to satisfy our demands. But of course, there is not much encouragement being given by the Government for investment in the steel sector. 
The relatively high rate of inflation in Australia compared to overseas countries is going to make our competitive position more unfavourable and the long term effects of revaluation and the tariff cuts will be felt by the manufacturing sector of the community. The present business buoyancy must be looked at in the context of a quite alarming indication of a wage boom this year. The announced intention of the Treasurer to increase the Government's slice of the national income cake, the high level of inflation and the considerable shift in our balance of payments situation make this area worthy of very close attention. 
Average weekly earnings for the December quarter rose by 3 per cent which means that the annual wage increase for 1973 was about 15 per cent. This is a cold and frightening fact when we consider it is the largest wage increase since 1951. It is also frightening to realise that these large increases in wages are being absorbed almost entirely by the outdated tax scale and the rapid rate of inflation. Between September 1972 and September 1973 the average weekly earnings increased by about $14 a week. Yet, for a married man with 2 children the tax on that amount increased by $3.50. Allowing for the effects of inflation, that man's real income in terms of purchasing power after tax was up 66c. That was all the increase a working man with 2 children got during the year. Is it little wonder that there is restlessness amongst the working class people in this country. This is what is causing the industrial trouble. This is what is giving the militant trade unions an opportunity to mobilise the working people to hold strikes and stoppages. Yet this Government seems to treat inflation as though it does not matter, as though it is a natural phenomenon with which we have to live and as though it is endemic all over the world. The Government takes the view: 'Let us not worry about inflation'. 
The Treasurer a week ago said that he thinks he could live with a 10 per cent or 12 per cent rate of inflation. What greater irresponsibility can there be? We have seen some definite decisions by the Government to deter the incentive to invest in secondary industry. The investment allowance has been removed. Honourable members talk about improving technology and installing modern plant and equipment. One of the best decisions that the previous Government made for secondary industry was in this field. It helped to remove a lot of the obsolete machinery which had been in use for years and improved not only production but also the working conditions of men and women across the nation. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Daly)  adjourned. 
I want to support 
I want to support the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  because I think that an injustice is being perpetrated on him. I say that because I happened to be listening to the debate. I was listening to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  make his very important announcement. It was an announcement which I think arrested the attention of all in the Parliament. But I also heard the Leader of the Opposition ask for leave to make a statement referring to the referendums. There were no qualifications whatsoever on that statement. As every member of this House knows, if a member is given leave to make a statement he can make it as wide as he likes on the topic on which he has been given permission to speak. 
If you are going to suppress the Leader of Opposition being able to amplify statements that he wanted to make, I say that you are trying to limit the functions of this Parliament and the right of an individual to express his opinion. We have already seen the debate dealing with the Constitution alteration legislation being suppressed as we have never seen legislation in this Parliament suppressed. We have seen it gagged through this Parliament. We have seen the disgraceful behaviour to allow about half an hour of debate in the second reading stage of each of the major Bills and about 15 minutes in the Committee stage. 
I will do that, but I am a bit fed up with the Leader of the Government trying to suppress proper debate and proper expression of a point of view in this House. I am particularly resentful that this should be done in regard to constitutional issues when we cannot put our point of view across to the Australian people. 
The motion before the House,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  is dissent from your ruling. I think in good faith that you have made a judgment not realising the consequences of the decision that you have made. I believe that it is an error. I would hate to think that you are showing a bias in favour of the Government merely because the Prime Minister is in the House and merely because the Prime Minister has expressed an opinion that the Leader of the Opposition should not be stating a point of view about the title of the referendum questions on which the people of Australia have to make a decision. I hope that you would not be swayed by that. But at the moment there is an error. If you look at the record, if you get the tape or if you check with the Hansard report of what the Leader of the Opposition asked - that was the right to make a statement referring to the referendum - you will find that an error has been committed. In those circumstances I believe that you ought to give reconsideration to the judgment that you have made. Otherwise you are not doing proper dignity to the very important job that you hold in this House. If you can sit by and allow this to go on without examining the reports of Parliament then you have committed an error and you are not living up to the high status to which this House has elected you. This is an important matter because a constitutional matter is before the Australian people and the Australian people are entitled to have the points of view of the Opposition. They have to make a judgment whether they are going to vote for or against these matters. The Leader of the Opposition was merely trying to point out that when on 18 May the people have to make this decision- 
They have got a chance of- (Honourable members interjecting)- 
The Prime Minister is the Prime Minister in this Parliament, but that does not give him a right to try to use the forms of this House to prevent an opposing point of view to his being expressed. This is what the dissention is all about. 
 I wish to second the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  for the suspension of Standing Orders so that he may explain his view of the mode of the referendum proposals and the interpretation of those proposals. At this time of night there would be hundreds of thousands of people listening to Parliament on the radio. They must think that this national Parliament is quite a rabble because of the disruption and the noise that have taken place this afternoon. There has been a lot of disruption and the reason for that is that members of the Opposition have been trying to put across a point of view as to reasons for rejecting the referendum proposals. They have been trying to explain what is meant by these referendum proposals, and that is why we are asking for a suspension of Standing Orders. I hope the House will support the motion, but knowing that the Government has domination of this House, it will gag the matter and there will be little expression of opinion. 
We have seen this suppression of expression right through the whole debate dealing with these constitutional questions. They have come before this Parliament twice and on both occasions the guillotine has been applied. The guillotine means that there is only a limited amount of time allowed for the discussion of each of these constitutional questions and the ludicrous amount of time that the Government allowed for discussion was half an hour on the second reading stages of the Bills, plus about IS minutes on the Committee stages. These are very complex questions and we feel bound as members of the Opposition to insist that a point of view should be put in the national Parliament. If democracy is to work, and if there is to be free expression by the people in this Parliament, we have a right to a certain amount of the debating time. The guillotine has been applied twice on these measures. It was applied for the first time when the Bills were introduced before Christmas and again this session. It is just not good enough for an ample explanation of the Bills so that the Australian people can make an intelligent and informed assessment of whether they are in the best interests of the nation. But, apparently it is the tactics of the Gov ernment and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to try to restrict as much as possible debate on these questions so that the people might go to the polls in ignorance of what ire the real consequences. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  within the few minutes that he had at his disposal today tried to point out to the House why there should be a suspension of Standing Orders. He went through the 4 questions that the people will have to consider at the referendums. He pointed out that the definitions or the long titles of these Bills are completely false and that the Australian people are being deceived. Apparently the Government is hoping that in the ignorance of the Australian people, these constitutional changes might be made so that greater power will be in the hands of the central government and so that the Labor Government might entrench itself in office by a gigantic manipulation of the electoral laws, a gerrymander such as we have never seen before in this country. It is little wonder that we feel so concerned and upset in this House. It is little wonder that the people who have been listening on the air for the last hour must have been disturbed by all the noise and rabble. 
Well, it has been rabble; it has been rabble by the whole Parliament because the forms of the House have not been obeyed or honoured and the only way in which we can get a say in this House is to try to stand up to the tactics of the Prime Minister and the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  who are trying to restrict proper debate. So we make a plea on behalf of democracy and the proper working of this House that this motion for the suspension of Standing Orders be carried to allow proper debate on this question. 
I second the motion and support the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in his motion of dissent from your ruling,  Mr Speaker.  I think that there are just grounds for his doing so and for my supporting him. I believe that your ruling was incorrect,  Mr Speaker.  What happened was that the Leader of the Opposition asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  a question relating to the appointment of a senator to an overseas post. The Prime Minister replied. The Leader of the Opposition then interjected and said: That is the most shameful action that any government has taken'. You then interrupted,  Mr Speaker,  and said that those words were not to be included in the Hansard report.  Sir, if  you had not interrupted the Leader of the Opposition those words would not have been included in the Hansard report because the Prime Minister did not reply to them, but because you reacted and made an issue of the question they should be recorded in Hansard. That is the true expression of this House. We know the rulings- 
With due deference to you,  Mr Speaker,  I am debating the motion of dissent from your ruling. I hope that I will be given an opportunity to explain, without a parliamentary debate going on between the two of us, the point I wish to make. The point is that the Leader of the Opposition did interject, as any member of this House has the right to do. We know that interjections are not recorded in Hansard unless somebody replies to them. Apparently it tickled your fancy to such an extent that you could not possibly allow that remark to be included in the Hansard report, so you made a point of saying: 'That is to be expunged from Hansard'. 
I feel that I am at home here when I am listening to you. So once the interjection had been replied to, the issue is whether the matter is one to be included in the Hansard report. If this Parliament gets to the stage where the  Speaker  can determine what interjections go into the Hansard report and what do not, democracy will have come to a very sad state and the rules of this Parliament will have been changed. I can well understand the sensitivity that you,  Mr Speaker,  and the Government might have about this shameful act. The Government is so sensitive now to the political situation across the country. 
I would just like to say that the honourable member for Casey seems to be so over-sensitive about this matter that one must be suspicious about whether he might have been involved in the negotiations. It is quite obvious that a bit of political skulduggery has been going on for a considerable amount of time as to how the Government might get control of the Senate, and it is taking any desperate act now to do so. 

 - Mr Speaker, the motion before the Chair is one of dissent from your ruling in relation to the words 'the most shameful act of any government has been taken'. The fact that this has now become a public issue in this House deserves that the words be included in Hansard. Seeing you felt so strongly about it,  Mr Speaker,  I am sure the Leader of the Opposition was going to take a point of order so that he could state the words to the Parliament. If the time arrives when this Parliament does not record the true reflections and attitudes of the Opposition as well as those of the Government you might as well give it away. We are finding more and more of this every day. We saw the referendum Bills go through this House in the most shameful fashion that any legislation has come before this Parliament. There has been an uproar time and time again. Every week there is an uproar because the Prime Minister thinks he can lord it over the Opposition, that we on this side of the House do not matter, and that he can do what he likes. The unfortunate thing,  Mr Speaker,  is that by your actions today you seem to be protecting and sheltering the Government and the Ministers in their actions. 

 - Mr Speaker, of course I will withdraw it. But this is a motion of dissent and one wonders how one expresses dissent unless one gets pretty near the bone, and that is what I have been doing here. We are unhappy with this ruling because it is suppressing the point of view of the Opposition. We are highly concerned that a government will get into such an act of corruption as to try to buy off some senator so that it has a better chance in a Senate campaign. 
As I said, the Leader of the Opposition, when he was trying to prise information out of the Government as to what the attitude was to this question, reacted and said that it was the most shameful act any government had taken. Surely the Leader of the Opposition is allowed to make a remark like that; yet you,  Sir, said  that he cannot. 
When it gets to the point that the Leader of the Opposition cannot speak up and state a point of view it is a very sorry day for the Australian Parliament. If anybody ought to be given latitude by you,  Mr Speaker,  it is the Leader of the Opposition. And, of course, I hope that the Leader of the Country Party will be given a little latitude occasionally because I have a party to represent and I have a point of view to put. If you are to be so precise, so narrow and, if I may use the words, a bit pedantic on the rules of this House, you cannot help but get a very savage reaction from the Opposition and there will be turmoil and trouble. We do not intend to cause that, but at least we on this side of the House want to see fair play. Your actions and your ruling today can only cause a great deal of disquiet amongst the members of the Opposition. I hope that a lesson will be learnt from the events this morning. Much time has been taken over this question, but there would not have been any reaction at all, and the words spoken would not have been included in the Hansard report if you,  Mr Speaker,  had not been so hypersensitive to the question. I can understand you,  Mr Speaker,  being sensitive to this issue as I know all the members of the Government are sensitive to it. Government supporters will be a lot more sensitive when this issue gets out to the Australian public and the facts are known. 
I will certainly withdraw the remark if you feel that way about it,  Sir. I  do not want to- 

 - Mr Speaker, if you had been offered the job there would be no reaction from this side of the House. In fact, we think you would fill it very admirably. Unfortunately a lot of politics is involved in this issue - a lot of dirty politics.  Mr Speaker,  I withdraw the remark that you asked me to withdraw. I do not want to reflect on the Chair personally because it is very important that the House respect the Chair. This chamber cannot function properly unless there is confidence in the Chair. But, on this issue, I am bound to say that the Opposition must move dissent from your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  because we believe it is unjust and unnecessary. If you had not reacted to the matter in the way that you did, this issue, which now concerns the House, would not have arisen. 
 I commend the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  for his very enlightening speech and the information he has given to the Australian people on the disastrous consequences of the present policies of the Government. My purpose today is to speak to the statement that was made in the House by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  relating to Australian equity in the Australian mining industry. The evidence we are considering on foreign participation in the minerals industry shows clearly that the Australian Labor Party has been basing policy on the wrong premise. From a study of available evidence it is clear that the degree of overseas participation in the minerals industry has been completely misrepresented by the Government and that statistics based on supposition have been the basis for a dogmatic policy in relation to this question. 
The subject of foreign participation is, of course, an emotional one, and I suppose it is only right that there should be instincts within us all wanting to preserve Australian ownership of Australian resources. Of course it is not unimportant that we talk about this issue, but we should be careful to distinguish between emotion and logic. If over the years Australia's approach to foreign capital had been adamant and dogmatic we would not have achieved anything like the development we have recorded over the years. Overseas capital has played a significant role in the development of this nation. Overseas capital in the mining industry has been one of the greatest contributing factors in recent years to decentralisation and the establishment of nev/ townships, particularly in inland Australia and the remote northern region, where there would not have been any development had it not been for the courage of foreign investors to invest in some of the mining ventures in these areas. Overseas capital has developed ports and roads. With the development of new townships and roads we have seen ancillary developments in agriculture and tourism, and many other ventures. It has created jobs for Australians; it has increased our technology and knowledge in relation to mining. Above all, it has brought a tremendous amount of income into this country. It has strengthened our overseas balances; it has given us a broader base for our operations and has meant that we are not so vulnerable to changes in commodity prices and seasonal conditions in this country; and it has enabled the revenue of this Government and the State governments to be greatly enhanced. Al! this has given the governments of Australia a greater capacity to look after  th3  many other essential needs of this country. 
When 1 think of some of the great projects undertaken throughout Australia in which there has been foreign participation I wonder what is so very evil about foreign participation and why such a picture is being painted about it by the Government, especially by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  I think of the great coal fields in the Bowen area of Queensland which some years ago Peabody, in association with Mitsubishi and an Australian firm, Thiess, decided could be developed by open cut means. That had never been attempted before by Australians. Those organisations had the know-how and the courage to develop the enormous coal deposits in central Queensland. They have helped to develop that part of Australia. Without foreign capital, in the first place, and the know-how of those organisations and their confidence that they could succeed that area would not have been developed. The great Mount Isa mine is a typical case of foreign capital coming in and developing a resource. The ore body in the Mount Isa area was discovered by an Australian firm in the 1920s. That firm went broke. It could not get Australian money to keep it going. Nobody was prepared to invest in the Mount Isa project. An American company called Osarko came in and hacked that mining venture for 17 years without taking lc in profit out of it. It had confidence in the venture succeeding. For 17 years it developed that mine. It was not until the 1950s that it really succeeded and made a profit. The Mount Isa mine is today one of the finest mines that one will find anywhere in the world and it is adding enormously to the economy of Queensland and has opened up the north-west of Queensland. 
Let us look at some more recent ventures. The development of bauxite at Gove in the Northern Territory is a good example. Alusuisse, a foreign company, decided thatthe ore body in this area could be developed. It had great difficulty in finding any Australian partners who were prepared to come in and take a substantial share of the equity. Eventually an arrangement was made whereby it would put in 70 per cent of the capital and Australian partners would put in the remaining 30 per cent. On a cost-benefit analysis of the scale of the original scheme it was found that it would have to be increased very considerably in size if it was to be an economic proposition. When Alusuisse talked about doubling the size of the project the Australian partners said: 'We cannot find the money. We are not prepared to put money into it; it is not profitable enough'. What happened? Alusuisse, a foreign company, lent the Aus tralian partners the money to make up their contribution and special arrangements were made with the Government for the export of bauxite so that- they would have a quick cash flow and the Australian partners would be able to pay off their loans. 
One has only to look at the great iron ore developments in Western Australia. The first projects that were suggested were too big in their thinking for Australian participation. Australian companies were not prepared to put in the hundreds of millions of dollars required for the development of the area. One can look at the North West Shelf where encouraging deposits of gas have been found and where I hope oil will be found. In this case Woodside, an Australian exploration company, wanted to go and explore the area. It had the lease rights. It peddled them around the world trying to find a partner. The only partner it could get after a year was Burmah, which was looking for development projects, having had its industry nationalised in India. Burmah was an overseas company which had the know-how and the capital. They came together and discovered gas. Much the same sort of story can be told about the Gippsland Basin oil deposits where Esso eventually came in and joined BHP. BHP had found difficulty in finding a partner who was prepared to put in the risk capital required to look for oil. 
All this talk about foreign capital being evil and being bad is highly exaggerated. Of course it should be the objective of every Australian for us to own as much of our country as possible. But it has to be kept in balance, it has to be sensible, it has to be logical and it has to be worked out as to what is in the best interests of Australians as a whole. It is easy to equate the percentage of equity or control with abstract fears, such as the loss of sovereignty. It is also easy to oversimplify carefully defined results into broad political judgments. 
Some time ago the Bureau of Statistics published a document that attempted to measure the degree of overseas participation in the Australian mining industry. In assessing this degree of overseas participation the Bureau excluded mineral exploration activities as well as smelting and refining processes and some infrastructure. The Bureau's paper was concerned with overseas ownership and overseas control. In assessing the degree of overseas ownership the Bureau considered direct investment in Australian companies in which at least 50 per cent of the voting stock is held by overseas interests or where at least 25 per cent of the voting stock is held by one overseas company or a group of associated companies. It also considered investment and ordinary shares of Australian companies as portfolio investments. The subsequent degree of overseas ownership of individual companies was used to provide aggregate figures for the Australian industry on the basis that if, say, 85 per cent of the voting stock of a company is held by overseas investors then 85 per cent of the activities of that company was attributed to overseas ownership. 
On that basis the percentage of Australian ownership associated with the value of output of the industry has fallen from 71 per cent in 1964 to 58 per cent in 1968. The Bureau also attempted to measure the degree of overseas control and a statistical convention was used in which if 50 per cent of the voting stock was held in one overseas country or 25 per cent by one overseas company the mining establishment was classified as controlled from overseas. On that basis the percentage of value of output controlled from overseas rose from 39 per cent in 1964 to 56 per cent in 1968. However, these 'control' percentages have severe limitations for, as the Bureau pointed out itself, ownership of less than 25 per cent of the voting stock could be sufficient to achieve effective control of a company's activities. 
The Bureau of Mineral Resources has since undertaken a further study to update these calculations. In doing so it has widened the definitions to include the subsequent processing of raw materials into metal or a similarly upgraded product.  Dr Fisher  has indicated that these calculations are based only on figures published by the Commonwealth Statistician or obtained from the BMR's own investigation. As a result of this BMR study it was found that the overall Australian equity in the mineral industry was 65 per cent. But it should be noted that this covered a large number of selected minerals and did not cover petroleum. It is important to note that the Bureau of Mineral Resources comments that to extend the compilation to cover the entire industry would raise rather than lower the overall figure for Australian equity. The Australian Mining Industry Council subsequently published a paper which indicates that among its membership the percentage of overseas ownership is only 40 per cent. 
The main conclusions to be drawn from this picture are that, during the middle 1960s when a set of calculations was made, the percentage of overseas ownership and control of the minerals industry, as carefully defined, increased. Taking a broader definition of the scope of the industry later calculations by the Bureau would suggest that at least two-thirds of the mineral industry in terms of value of output is owned by Australian interests and that this is probably an understatement. Those are the words of the Bureau of Mineral Resources. This also means that the calculations by the Bureau considerably understated the extent of Australia's participation in the industry. What I am saying is that the Minister for Minerals and Energy is deliberately misleading the Australian people and is concocting an emotional issue which does not stand up to examination.  His  figures are exaggerated. I am not pretending that Australian participation should not be- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The right honourable member's time has expired. 
I preface my question to the Prime Minister by saying that the Premier of Queensland is a very experienced pilot who can cope with all circumstances - hijacking or otherwise. Can the Prime Minister say whether he has ever been taken for a ride by the Premier of Queensland? 
 We have witnessed a very historic occasion where the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has demonstrated his hitter annoyance and frustration that the national Parliament of Australia has 2 houses - an upper House and a lower House - and that he wants to bring about the downfall of the Senate so that there is complete power in one chamber so that he, the Prime Minister, can lord it over the Australian people as well as this Parliament. 
 Mr Speaker,  the death of  President  Pompidou marks the passing of an era in the history of France.  President  Pompidou was famous for many contributions to contemporary French life. He was an outstanding teacher, a notable anthologer of French poetry, a successful banker and an able French parliamentary  deputy. His  death this week robs France of a man gifted in sophistication, charm and ability. For long Georges Pompidou was largely the figure who ensured the survival of the De Gaulle Government during a period in France when the forces for the complete disunity of democratic government in France were at their greatest strength.  His  ability to control these forces were an accomplishment of supreme tactical skill which would have many admirers in this chamber at the moment. Although there have been differences between Australia and the French Government in recent years, the tragic passing of this great man robs France of a gifted  President  and the world of an outstanding figure particularly now when the role of Western Europe in the world is undergoing great changes. It is with sadness that we honour the passing of this great French leader. 
Will the Prime Minister confirm that the Government has decided that the bounty on nitrogenous fertilisers should be provided? What factors, apart from the seats of Dawson, Wide Bay and Leichhardt, influenced this decision? How do the circumstances in this case differ from those which led to the decision not to continue the bounty on superphosphate? Or does this decision mean only that the matter will go to the Industries Assistance Commission for examination? 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  I regret that the Opposition has felt compelled to move this motion of censure against you,  Mr Speaker,  as the  Speaker  of this Parliament. I heard what went on in the Parliament this morning and I was very disturbed to hear your ruling,  Sir. It  highlighted a growing tension that has existed between you and the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  It is quite obvious that whilst you are expected to carry out your duties in this House impartially and whilst you have a right to have your own personal opinions about honourable members in this House, you have no right to exercise any vindictiveness by using the authority of the Chair. That is the charge that is laid against you in relation to the decision that you have taken against the honourable member for Mackellar. The honourable member for Mackellar is a very effective and competent member of this chamber. 
It is true that he disturbs this Parliament. It is true that he takes many points of order. It is also true that he is very brilliant in the points of order he takes, and many times he arrests this House and directs it to the proper proceedings of this House. But in the course of the honourable member's doing this, he infuriates you as  Speaker.  Today it seemed as though it just became too much for you,  Mr Speaker,  with all the pressures that have been on the Party to which you belong. Unfortunately your decision is the culmination of a number of decisions that have caused a good deal of concern amongst members of the Opposition, including myself. In recent days we have had to move dissent from your rulings, which is not a light thing to do in itself. We believe that we had real justification for dissenting from your rulings, but it appears that even though we expressed ourselves in dissenting from your rulings it has made little impact upon you. Today you took the extreme measure of wanting the honourable member not only to withdraw his remarks but also almost to bow down on his knees in some humble state and plead mercy from you. 
The facts of the matter are that the words of the honourable member for Mackellar were to this effect: 'The question is whether or not the Prime Minister lied to the Parliament.' You asked him to withdraw his assertion. There was no assertion to withdraw. He asked a question whether the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had lied to the Parliament. He did not accuse the Prime Minister of lying. But being in such a supersensitive state, as Government supporters are to the credibility and integrity of the Prime Minister, you reacted without even thinking closely on the situation. The honourable member for Mackellar was prepared to withdraw and did withdraw. But you wanted some qualification that he had made a frightful mistake, that he was sorry and that he did not mean it. I just wonder to what extent he had to withdraw. He withdrew his remarks emphatically and the Hansard record will show that he withdrew them. Everyone in this chamber heard him withdraw them. 
He did not qualify his withdrawal; he did it openly and frankly as any man would. In circumstances in which he had nothing to withdraw, what more could he do? But in these obviously dying days of the Parliament the Government will throw its weight around with the strength of numbers. It will control this Parliament. The whole place is getting into a pretty sorry state when this kind of situation continues. Your conduct in this House, on a number of occasions,  Mr Speaker,  has been questionable. It is unfortunate that a  Speaker  has only to make a few rulings, which cause the House to lose confidence in him, for him then to put himself in a position where he is no longer fit to hold that office. 
I recall last year that you made a decision and I had to move dissent from your ruling. You named one of my colleagues, the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  when he said that the Prime Minister ought to be ashamed of himself. You ruled that that was unparliamentary. As a result, a number of honourable members were thrown out. Goodness me, if that sort of comment cannot be made in this Parliament what sort of criticism can be levelled at a Prime Minister when he is throwing insults at the Opposition? I should like to bring up another case in this House. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in one of the. most unfitting performances that the head of this country could ever carry out and by the gravest breach of parliamentary privilege that is known under the British parliamentary system, under the precedents that are laid down in the Westminster system, accused one of the members of this House of being drunk. That is the gravest breach of privilege that anyone can make in this House. We asked that the matter be referred to the Privileges Committee. 

 - Mr Speaker, what I am saying has a direct relevance to the way in which- 
I am answering what the honourable member is trying to get over the air to the Australian people. I want to get over the air to the Australian people what the true facts of the situation are. We asked, as is the right and privilege of the Opposition, to have the matter referred to the Privileges Committee. That is a decision which you, 

 Mr Speaker, with your authority could have made on your own initiative. It was not a question of making a decision; it was a question of allowing an objective assessment of what had gone on to be made. But you,  Sir, in  your position referred the matter back to this chamber to make a decision, knowing that the weight of numbers on the Government side would crush the Opposition's proposal.  Mr Speaker,  you would not even allow a full and proper examination of the rights of one of the members of this House because you wanted to shelter and protect the Prime Minister who, I believe, then commenced an operation which highlighted the lack of integrity standards and principles of this man. On those grounds we should have censured you,  Sir, but  we were prepared to accept that you were trying to do the best you could in your circumstances, but today this performance from you of trying to make the honourable member for Mackellar humble himself and plead with you for mercy was beyond any redemption whatsoever. 

 Sir, we have seen you on other occasions allowing the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to take countless points or order, one after the other, but when members of the Opposition have stood up to take points of order you have sat them down. Last week we had the case when you ordered the Prime Minister to sit down. He stood up and continued to talk even though I had the right to speak; I could not talk any longer. The Prime Minister refused to accept your ruling. He disobeyed you. He flouted your ruling. But you,  Sir, sat  there and took the lot because he was the Prime Minister, he was the head of your Party, and you were not going to discipline him for one moment. This is no way for a  Speaker  to behave. 
Perhaps this is only a small matter, but there is the question of the tape recording of parliamentary proceedings. You,  Mr Speaker,  ruled that you have a discretion to decide whether tape recordings ought to be replayed immediately or whether they ought to be delayed until there is a break in the proceedings. Anybody knows that if we are to have an impact on a debate in this House where points of order are taken and where there is a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders, we have to get straight away the facts of what was said. You,  Sir, have  made a new ruling that we cannot have the tape recordings replayed until a few hours later. 
The ordinary sensible suggestion was made that we have 2 tape recorders operating at the same time. But no, that was not to be considered or allowed. Perhaps it is too expensive to buy another tape recorder. 
At question time you,  Sir, on  many occasions have ruled members of the Opposition Parties out of order for interjecting and taking points of order when Ministers in this Government continue to speak at length, ad lib, until we have reached the stage where a minimum number of questions is being asked. This is the technique which the Government is using in order to prevent us from questioning and examining the motives and policies of this Government. You,  Mr Speaker,  should be ruling that there is a limit to the period of time which Ministers can take in answering questions. All these matters have caused such indignation in the ranks of the Opposition that today, as much as we dislike it, we felt that we have to move this motion of censure of you. It is regrettable that a person of your very high standing and position in Parliament should have brought himself to the situation about which the Opposition felt so very bitterly incensed, but I am afraid that we have to explain to the Australian people just where we are going in this Parliament because of the shameful and shabby Government that we have at present. 
 Mr Speaker,  1 wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. Yesterday I was misrepresented in the House by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  Whilst I did not think his remark would be published in the newspapers today - I thought the papers would have treated it as nothing more than rubbish - it was published. This was an accusation made about me and my Party that oil companies and multi-national companies had paid for an advertisement promoting the name of the new party in Queensland. The fact is that that advertisement was paid for by the Queensland Country Party which is a viable financial organisation with one of the biggest memberships of any political party in Australia. Furthermore, 2 functions held last weekend demonstrate the financial support the Party receives. At a luncheon in Brisbane for which tickets were issued to 400 people- 
I was explaining the situation and accounting for how the advertisement was paid. As I was saying, 400 tickets were issued at a cost of $25 each. In Toowoomba another function was held at $20 a ticket. 
There can be no point of order on a point of order. 
I have completely answered the Minister's accusation. I have another point of explanation to make. Today I was misrepresented by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who said that I and other Country Party members were not interested in the unemployment relief scheme and wanted it abolished. If he has any accusations like that to make let him table die names of those he accuses. The fact of the matter is that unemployment in country areas today is worse than it was 12 months ago. According to official figures, in February 1973 the number unemployed was 51,000. 
I was doing that,  Mr Speaker.  If the Minister makes such charges let him table in this House the names of Country Party members and let him disprove that unemployment in country districts is worse today than it was a year ago. 
 I ask the Prime Minister: Is he going to dissolve the Parliament and call for a double dissolution now that the Health Insurance Bill has been rejected twice by the Senate, or is he deliberately delaying the processing of the appropriation Bills in the hope, as  Mr Micawber  would say, that something just might turn up? Or is he hoping to avoid a general election? Finally, will the Prime Minister jump or, like a lame duck leader, must he be pushed? 
 Mr Speaker,  I desire to inform the House that the Parliamentary Party of the Australian Country Party has elected me as its Leader, the honourable member for New England,  Mr Sinclair,  as its  Deputy  Leader and the honourable member for Calare,  Mr England,  as the Whip. 
 Mr Speaker,  on behalf of my Party I congratulate you on being re-elected to this august position, the supreme position in this House. Members of my Party along with all other members recognise the importance of maintaining law and order in this Parliament so that the proper procedures can be carried out. When you were first elected, I congratulated you. I made personal remarks about you as a person whom we liked and respected and who had a great sense of humour. I do not deviate from those remarks. It is a genuine feeling of my Party that we have a very likeable person as  Speaker.  I believe that you,  Mr Speaker,  have the qualities and the attributes to make a very talented 
Speaker of this Parliament. However, the experience of the previous 18 months did see a few lapses in your impartiality and those lapses caused considerable concern. It was this concern that caused the Opposition parties to contest the position today. You have won it, and we respect the fact that you now hold this very important position. 
The volatile reaction of the Opposition during the last Parliament was brought about largely by the provocative actions of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  I know that it was difficult for you to give a ruling that did not discriminate against a Party colleague. There were also occasions when we felt that you had been influenced in your ruling by a previous disposition towards the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  your Party leader. We understand that Party loyalty is a necessary quality in one, but there must be no bias whatsoever in the  Speaker.  Provided that you can dispense rulings from that chair with completejustice and with complete impartiality you will have the complete support of the Opposition parties. I hope that there will be no occasion on which you will have to use a heavy hand against members of the Opposition. But if we see a repetition of the incidents that were created by the Leader of the House I can well imagine that there will be stirrings in our ranks and that you will find yourself in a difficult position. I hope that does not happen because the Opposition wants to see this House maintained in an orderly manner. I say again: Congratulations and best wishes in carrying out what is a very onerous and important position. 
If the honourable members would like to go through Hansard and check the rulings of the two gentlemen I have just mentioned they would see that my rulings are in conformity with the rulings made by them. So before any destructive criticism is made about some of my rulings I ask honourable members to peruse Hansard to see the rulings that were made by my predecessors. Again I would like to say thanks very much to the Prime Minister, the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Australian Country Party for their words of eulogy and congratulation. 
I would like to join with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in expressing the sympathy of the Australian Country Party at the death of our only Royal Governor-General. The Prime Minister is forwarding a message to  Her  Majesty the Queen, and I hope that mention will be made to the Duchess and Prince Richard of the sympathies of the Country Party. Prince Henry, along with the Duchess, carried out loyally his duties as GovernorGeneral during the latter part of the war and in the immediate post-ward period. He is remembered for his very exhaustive programs of meeting the Australian people. Obviously he liked the Australian people and the Australian people liked him. He managed to keep the morale of the people high and their optimism for the future bright. 
The Duke of Gloucester was the last surviving son of King George V, and so an era has ended with his death. He was a very uninhibited man, informal in his approach. I clearly remember when I was a schoolboy his visiting my area, meeting countless school children, going from one school to another and being happy to shake hands and to speak to as many people as possible. We express our appreciation for the loyal and dedicated way in which he fulfilled his task and we will remember him as our only Royal GovernorGeneral. 
I would like to join with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  to express the sympathy of the Australian Country Party at the death of Joe Sexton, a late colleague in this Parliament whom I remember well. The Prime Minister very aptly described Joe Sexton as a good Australian and a modest man. He was not self-seeking. He was liked. He was a quiet man in this Parliament. He was absolutely dedicated to his Party. He was very warm hearted and instinctively made friends with everyone in this chamber. I found him to be a pleasant man. He was unassuming, but he was very strong in his dedication to his Party. He had strong principles. I recall his very great concern about aged people and it was in the area of social welfare that Joe Sexton made a real contribution to the debates and discussions of this Parliament. 
Joe Sexton was known to be a very good local member who attended to his duties. I am told that in attending to those duties much of his time was spent with aged people's organisations in trying to look after their needs. His family can be very proud of the job that he did as a member of the Labor Party and as a member of this Parliament. I express the sympathy of the Australian Country Party to his family in their time of bereavement. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  on being elected  Chairman  of Committees. He has had previous experience as  Deputy Speaker  and as  Chairman  of Committees. He certainly knows the Standing Orders extremely well and performs very efficiently. He has a smile on his face now, having been elected. I hope it is the start of a new era in which he will look happy in the job and not scowl too much at members of the Opposition when they are finding reason to misbehave. I am sure that he will get full co-operation if he shows the impartiality that is needed to make the House work successfully.  Mr Speaker,  perhaps from time to time you will be able to hand on to him some of your witticisms which can make the House a little lighter during the agonising Committee periods that we have to suffer at times. I wish him well in his new job. 
The Treasurer will recall during the election campaign denying the existence of a credit squeeze. In view of the excessive interest rates now being charged and the massive lift in the official rate since the election, does the Treasurer still deny the existence of a credit squeeze? 
My question is to the Prime Minister and relates to the eligibility of Bills for a joint sitting of the 2 Houses of Parliament following a double dissolution. I ask the Prime Minister: Is he aware of the doubt surrounding the justification for a double dissolution in the Senate's second failure to pass the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill due to the fact that the period of 3 months, as required by section 57 of the Constitution, did not elapse between the Senate's first rejection of the Bill and the second passing of the Bill by this House? The period in fact was only 6 days. In view of the doubt which has arisen in respect of this Bill's role in the steps leading to the recent double dissolution, I ask the Prime Minister whether he will table the advice he received from the Government's legal advisers on this matter and on which, presumably, his own advice to the Governor-General was based? 
For the third time, on behalf of the Opposition parties and especially the Australian Country Party, I express our strong opposition to this Commonwealth Electoral Bill. We will not be calling for divisions on this Bill, mainly because we have been so severely repressed in the time allowed for debate. No consideration has been given to fair expression or to the opinion of any of the new members of this Parliament. It is democracy at its worst when such an important Bill with such wide ramifications and to which the attention of the whole nation will be directed is treated in such a shabby manner by this Government. So, the time available to this side will be spent in trying to have some semblance of a debate so that the Australia people and the new members of this Parliament might know something of what the Bill is all about. 
This Bill really represents the latest attempt by the Government to destroy the just and fair principles on which electoral distributions have been conducted since federation. What the Government is aiming to do basically is a fraud. It is based on a selfish party political motive - a motive to advantage the Australian Labor Party. This is the lowest of political manipulations. It is the gerrymandering of the electorate to try to give the Labor Party an advantage to enable it to stay in office. 
Well, listen to the Minister for Transport. I can talk about Queensland. I can talk about what the Labor Party in Queensland has done. If ever there was - (Honourable members interjecting) - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! If honourable members do not want the Leader of the Country Party to be heard, they will - 
Will the Prime Minister confirm or deny that a letter was sent out to business firms, including mining companies, appealing for funds for the Australian Labor Party? Is it true that the letters, which were sent out by senior members of the Labor Party, asked that cheques be made out to the Whitlam/ Barnard trust account? Can the Prime Minister confirm or deny whether he received such cheques? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I refer the Minister to a statement earlier this year that no special measures were necessary to relieve unemployment in non-metropolitan areas. I ask him: Why is he only now, at this late stage, floating a regional unemployment scheme when non-metropolitan unemployment has been consistently high for well over a year? I specifically ask him once again: When will he be introducing measures to meet the serious unemployment position in nonmetropolitan areas? 
 The Opposition parties once again oppose this legislation. They consider that this is a monstrous piece of legislation; that it has been badly conceived and poorly drawn up, that it gives unfettered, enormous power to an authority, a Minister and a government over which Parliament has little scrutiny; that it conflicts with many of the sovereign rights of the States in the handling of mineral affairs; that it gives to the authority and the Minister enormous power to acquire mineral projects in Australia; and that it gives the authority unlimited advantages which discriminate very severely against private mining operations in this country. These are some of the reasons why the Opposition has felt so strongly about the Bill. 
The Opposition believes that if the Government attempts to pass this legislation through Parliament by the joint sitting process it could be acting illegally and contrary to the provisions of the Constitution. One strong view is that under section 57 of the Constitution an interval of 3 months must elapse between the initial rejection by the Senate and resubmittal by the House of Representatives before the Bill is eligible to form the basis for a double dissolution. This criterion was not met, and the issue will probably be tested in the High Court of Australia. The Bill also infringes on many areas of State responsibility. So it appears that even should the double dissolution criterion be accepted by the High Court it is inevitable that there will be a series of challenges by State governments as to the authority which is being taken by the Commonwealth. 
This Bill is an important one and one that achieved some prominence during the recent election campaign. The question of mandate is closely associated with this Bill. It is a principle of logic that a narrow victory by the Government did not represent a complete endorsement by the people of the legislative program of the Australian Labor Party but rather represented a marginal result of a closely balanced election revolving around inflation. The Government has a mandate to administer this nation and to propose legislation to Parliament. The Opposition has a mandate to scrutinise that legislation closely and to exercise our individual and collective judgment. This we have done. 
The Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill is basically concerned with 2 general functions. Firstly, the Authority is to act as a vertically integrated company in the area of minerals and energy with a nationally prominent position and a privileged role. Secondly, under the provisions of clause 8 of the Bill it is also to be a regulatory and advisory authority on the availability and usage of minerals and energy resources, as well as performing the role of providing financial assistance to other organisations. In relation to the first function, it is given a wide-ranging scope both in Australia and overseas not only to explore and to recover mineral and energy resources but also to trade in them, to transport them, to process them and to market them. 
There are numerous detailed objections that can be raised in regard to the powers of the proposed authority. It is allowed or given the potential to exercise almost unfettered authority in its area of policy. Under clause 12 (m) it is empowered to take over our existing enterprises on such terms and conditions as the Authority deems fit. The safeguards are not there, except the ultimate constitutional guarantee of 'just terms'. Under clauses 43 to 50 an act of gazettal and a ratification by a Justice of the Peace suffice to enable the Authority to explore for and to recover petroleum from a declared area. Compensation is payable in the form of royalties to the owner and it is by no means clear whether this would constitute total compensation. In assessing compensation the court would take into account work done in the area by the Authority. State rights are over-ridden to a very broad extent. Protection which State laws give to prospectors and those holding miners' leases, as well as protection to property owners against damage by intrusion by prospectors or mining operations, is unclear, when this Authority is to enter into these areas of activity. Initial capital for the Authority is appropriated interest free, without apparent limit, and repayment of capital is quite indefinite. Working capital is also partially, or perhaps mainly, derived from similar appropriations of such amounts and on such terms and conditions as the Treasurer deems fit. 
Under clause 15 of the Bill the Minister may give directions to the Authority, and while the Authority shall comply with those directions any losses it suffers as a consequence will be reimbursed by the Government. Such objections as these are important. I have spelled out only the major ones briefly because they have been well canvassed on previous occasions when I have spoken on this legislation. On those occasions I have highlighted many of the great weaknesses that are obvious in this Bill which was so rapidly conceived, without real advice and without any consultation with the industry or with State governments 
The more important principle is whether such an authority is justified in concept under Australian circumstances. What has been the background to the Government's efforts to have this legislation enacted? The background has been one of malicious and vicious attacks on the mining industry by this Minister and by the Government as a whole. We have seen virtually non-stop attacks on the industry by various members of the Government. We saw the famous Fitzgerald report which presented a distorted picture of the industry's place in the Australian economy and which chose to ignore a large number of facts which would have presented a true picture. 
I deplore the Government's dishonesty and intemperate attacks on the mining industry and on overseas investment. What has been the result so far as the vendetta being waged by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  and by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)?  Take the oil industry. In 1969 263 wells were drilled in Australia; in 1974 90 wells will be drilled. Drilling equipment and expert and experienced personnel are leaving the country to go to places where they are made welcome and where they are not harassed and abused and denigrated by a stupid government. The oil search effort in Australia, in the middle of a world energy crisis, is being cut to ribbons by the blundering attitudes of the Minister and the Prime Minister. This Bill has frightened the life out of the mining and oil companies. If we did not want strong mining and oil industries, that would be all right; but we do want them. We need them desperately, and we particularly need oil. Without massive spending on exploration, our present ' 0 per cent self-sufficiency will, in a few years, be down to a low level, we will be paying fantastic prices for imported oil and we will be at the mercy of overseas oil companies and the Middle East countries. 
The mining industry and the oil industry are of tremendous importance to Australia. They have served Australia and the Australian people well. They are the basis of decentralised development in many remote areas of Australia. They give employment to thousands of people. They make an enormous contribution to our prosperity and to the balancing of our economy. It's time emotional nationalism that ignores Australia's real interests was dropped in the name of sensible, sane- and good government. It's time we stopped destroying our nation's reputation as a stable, hospitable environment for investment and development that are good for us. It's time we stopped driving our geologists and our expert explorers overseas. It's time we stopped destroying the will of Australian people to invest voluntarily in high risk mining and energy ventures. It's time we had a government that understands the value of these industries - industries that will work with us and not against us. It's time we had a government that put the interests of the Australian people first, instead of indulging in shabby, unworthy, political hate-mongering against this particular industry. It's time we got away from the attitude of the 1920s and moved into the latter part of the twentieth century - a time when energy resources, particularly oil, will be vital to the future wellbeing and living standards of the Australian people. 1 have noted before that the proposed Authority has a regulatory and advisory capacity distinct from its actual involvement in competition with the industry. Tn the findings of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources, which was presented in December 1971, is the recommendation that an advisory authority should be established with Commonwealth and State representation. The Committee said: 
The Committee believes that some form of federal control of a resource as important to Australia as petroleum, both economically and for defence purposes, is desirable. 
The Committee also believes that the utilisation of this resource should be considered not as an individual resource, but as part of Australia's total fuel and energy resources. 
For these reasons the Committee believes that an advisory authority should be established with Commonwealth and State representation which would be empowered to make a comprehensive continuing survey of Australia's fuel and energy needs and tender advice to Commonwealth and State governments on all matters relevant to the use and production of fuel and energy. 
Such a body could also recommend methods of transportation for petroleum. When necessary it should be capable of arbitrating in disputes over the transmission interstate of petroleum products and could also have other regulatory powers. The evidence would suggest that regulatory and  advisory  responsibilities of an authority in the field of interstate trade could include - 
These are the recommendations of the Senate Committee - 
To authorise the construction, ownership, operation and location of interstate oil and gas pipelines; 
To make orders with respect to all matters relating to traffic, tariffs and prices; and 
To study, review and from time to time report to the Parliament on such policies and measures as it considers necessary or advisable in the public interest for the control of transportation of oil and gas: 
In evidence to the Committee Professor Richardson considered that the interstate commission would be an appropriate body to carry out such function and visualised an even wider charter for the body. The Opposition believes that the establishment of such a commission is worthy of serious consideration. Since the Governor-General in his speech referred to legislation to establish an interstate commission the Opposition asks the Government to clarify the relationship between the commission and bodies such as the Pipeline Authority. 
From recent evidence it appears that the Pipeline Authority may be assuming the role of common carrier. There is a need for a national direction over a pipeline grid in the sense of regulatory control, but there is no need for the Commonwealth to own the pipeline and for it to acquire the gas it transmits. If the Pipeline Authority is to become simply a common carrier and not to exercise its acquisition powers effectively we should be told so. It would seem more sensible for one commission to exercise power over all aspects of industry including pipeline construction than for a multitude of authorities to exercise particular functions, as exists at the moment and as would exist in the future if this additional piece of legislation is accepted. In summary, the concept of a central authority with broad regulatory and advisory functions is one that we do not dismiss, but it is not a compatible function with associated powers of competition, particularly discriminatory competition, in the industry. 
The Commonwealth Government, under the Seas and Submerged Lands Act 1973, claims sovereignty over offshore areas, although is subject to challenge by some States in the 
High Court. The Commonwealth is now attempting to reinforce its claim with associated authority over minerals in the offshore areas. If the Commonwealth position is upheld, it would be able to recover royalties independently of the States and to become the designated authority in terms of lease allocation. At present, in Bass Strait for example, under the 1967 legislation royalties are split between the Commonwealth and State governments, while offshore lease policy is essentially a matter for the State governments. 
There may be a case for revision of offshore lease policy and for a more unified approach to royalty policy. In the United Kingdom, in offshore United States of America and in Alaska the designated authority grants non-exclusive exploration licences which permit companies to undertake, geophysical analyses. Armed with this information companies then submit sealed bids in competition with other companies for the right to drill and develop. Strict conditions are imposed in terms of individual acreage and work commitments. The bidding is a competitive affair related to the total value of the estimated reserves, future trends in the market, capacity of the bidders and the expected rate of profitability. 
There are some disadvantages in applying this system to Australia, such as the lack of geological knowledge, but it is a lucrative source of revenue as has been proved in the North Sea, offshore areas of the United States of America and Alaska and in western Africa. Consideration of offshore policy raises the question of the small Australian company which would tend to be disadvantaged by such a system. The problem of a small Australian mineral company is one that should be urgently and sympathetically looked at. Not generally appreciated, certainly not by the Minister for Minerals and Energy, is the extent to which present economic circumstances are disadvantaging Australian operators. The Sydney Stock Exchange market capitalisation of oil stocks has fallen from nearly $600m in early 1973 to a catastrophic level of $230m at the end of last month. The total mining excluding the oil group, during the same period has fallen from $5,000m to $3,400man enormous drop. This makes the raising of new issues and even debenture raising extraordinarily difficult and is associated with restrictions on capital inflow which have been recently only marginally lifted, and a severe credit situation. 
So, for the Australian company trying to buy into an overseas owned operation or to muster money for oil exploration and mining prospecting and development, the situation at the moment is extraordinarily difficult, if not gloomy. In short, the present situation is advantaging large foreign owned multi-national corporations to the. disadavtnage of small Australian owned companies. One major stated justification for this legislation is the necessity to maintain and, if possible, increase the present degree of Australian equity in the industry. On a careful study of the available evidence the main conclusion to be drawn is that during the middle 1960s the percentage of overseas ownership and control of the mining industry, as carefully denned, increased. 
Talcing a broader definition of the scope of the industry, later calculations by the Bureau of Mineral Resources would suggest that at least two-thirds of the minerals industry in terms of value of output is owned by Australian interests and that this is probably an underestimation of the situation. Of course, the position varies considerably between individual commodiies. The Minister has indicated recently that in the allocation of future offshore leases he would insist on a major Australian equity. The United Kingdom Government has gone through much the same soul-searching in the North Sea area where it is tending toward insistence upon a 51% share in new leases on the Norwegian pattern. The industry there has advanced a counter proposal, suggesting a special profits tax of 80 per cent. 
In broad terms the choice is between government participation through adequate revenue collection or through direct ownership. More particularly, if ownership is sought is it to be government ownership or public ownership? This whole issue deserves close consideration but we believe that the benefits of ownership in areas under Australian government jurisdiction can be achieved by insistence upon a satisfactory government take as well as by a quality of control that matches the expertise of international operators in this area. 
We believe that majority Australian participation is a worthy objective but in association with a sensible taxation policy such participation must be administered very flexibly. Today the Industries Assistance Commission's report on the Australian motor vehicle industry was presented to the Parliament. Whilst I have had only an hour or so to look at this very extensive report, I have found that it deals in one section with Australian participation and equity, The Commission made a 2-page comment on the subject Which I would like to read. It is strange that if one reads this report, bearing in mind the principles enunciated by this government Commission on equity and Australian ownership, and replaces the words 'motor industry' by the words 'mining industry', it lays down a very sound policy which is rational and sensible and one I hope the Governmen will enunciate. I hope those who read the comments later might visualise the words 'mining industry' wherever the words 'motor industry' occur. On pages 13 and 14 the report states: 
The Commission noted that there was considerable Australian participation in the management of the firms within the industry. However, all the vehicle manufacturers and assemblers are wholly owned subsidiaries of major overseas producers with the exception of AMI (50 per cent Australian equity) and Chrysler (3 per cent Australian equity). The component manufacturing sector has a much higher degree of Australian ownership. 
Proposals to increase Australian ownership usually flow from a desire for greater control of an industry to ensure that its operations are in accord with the interests of the local economy. However, it is open to question whether increased ownership is the best means of obtaining control of firms in the industry or even whether  a  locally owned firm's actions would be necessarily more in accord with the interests of the local economy than those of a multi-national firm. 
In the motor vehicle manufacturing industry, a high degree of control will usually only be obtained when more than 50 per cent of the total equity is held locally since there would be only one other shareholder, the overseas parent company. Some influence on the policy of the firm might be achieved by a minority Australian holding accompanied by n seat on the Board of Directors but this would not meet the objective of control. 
An alternative method to increase local equity in the motor vehicle industry would be for local capital to establish a new firm which would compete with the existing multi-national firms operating in the industry. The problems involved in following this alternative would be formidable. The firm would have to establish the skills required, acquire the technology and undertake a large capital outlay. There could be little expectation that the venture would give an adequate return for many years, if ever. 
So the return from a government's becoming involved in the motor vehicle industry, as far as the Industries Assistance Commission is concerned, would be most unrewarding. The report continues: 
A policy of obtaining control by increasing Australian equity in one or more of the major vehicle manufacturing firms would be a costly undertaking. Government policy can ensure that the firms in the industry adopt policies which conform with broad economic and social objectives of the Government at a lower cost by legislation in areas such as taxation,  environmental and safety standards, and restrictive trade practices. Such legislation should, and in some cases already does, set standards with regard to the conduct of not only the multi-national firms but of all firms within the industry. 
This basically says, and the principles apply to the motor industry, to the mining industry or to any other industry- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The time allotted for the second reading stage of the Bill has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I do. I happened to be watching television tonight and I saw the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  being interviewed. In that interview he claimed:  1 have evidence that three senior members of the Australian Wool Commission have met with the Leader and the Deputy Leader of the Country Party and these members of the Commission have said that they will keep prices up this week in order to embarrass the Government. 
I want to deny categorically that I have had any association whatsoever with the Australian Wool Corporation or members of the Corporation. This is a completely dishonest statement so far as I am concerned. I have had no association with them at all. I resent the statement made by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. I think it contemptible for a person to make these wild allegations. Furthermore, in the course of his statement he went on to say that the previous Government had not supported the Commission. This is totally untrue. 
I  move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Leader of the Australian Country Party making a statement drawing the attention of the House to the serious charges made by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro against members of the 
Australian Wool Corporation and as would prevent the honourable member for Eden-Monaro from substantiating his allegations with evidence he claims to have in his possession. 
Last night, in watching an Australian Broadcasting Commission news telecast, I heard the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  make a statement which led to the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  and me last night making personal explanations to dissociate ourselves from the charges which the honourable member for Eden-Monaro made. As I interpreted the ABC news last night and stated in the House, the honourable member's remarks were as follows: 
I have evidence that three senior members of the Australian Wool Commission have met with the Leader and Deputy Leader of the Country Party and these members of the Commission have said that they will keep prices up this week in order to embarrass the Government. 
In the last few minutes I have received from the ABC a transcript of what was actually said. I quote the relevant part: 
I think the first occasion I heard about this was about two weeks ago when somebody reported conversations that were purported to be those of senior members of the Wool Corporation's staff. And then just recently in this last week I've received another account of conversations by three members of the Wool Corporation in which they said that they had discussions with the Leader and the Deputy Leader of the Country Party along the lines that they would support the market at an excessively high level in order to embarrass the present government. The facts are, of course, that the present Government has stood by the Wool Corporation's buying activities and this is an interesting contrast to the situation in 71 when the Federal Government refused to stand by the Corporation at that time. 
Of course, the latter part is a complete falsehood and anybody who knows the situation realises it. The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party and I have both made our personal explanations denying any contact or association with members of the Corporation or staff of the Corporation. That is not the purpose of moving for the suspension of Standing Orders this morning. The purpose of the motion is to allow the honourable member for Eden-Monaro to reveal to the Parliament the evidence which he claimed to have last night in his answer to our dissociation from and denial of his accusations. I refer to this morning's 'Canberra Times' because I have not had time to see yesterday's Hansard. The article in the newspaper states: 
That is totally untrue,'  Mr Sinclair  said. 

 Mr Anthony said  Mr Whan's  'wild allegation' was. despicable and libellous. 
In a further personal explanation,  Mr Whan  said he accepted  Mr Anthony's  and  Mr Sinclair's  explanations and was relieved to hear the conversation had not taken place. But he said he had a written description and verbal evidence of a conversation between three officials of the AWC at the Australian Club in Sydney. 

 Mr Whan maintained that the evidence showed the AWC officials had said they had met with Country Party leaders and had discussed pricing policy. 
This is a very serious charge although not so far as we 2 members of Parliament are concerned. We expect extravagant statements to be made by the honourable member. We are used to these sorts of allegations. In his speech to the House on 16 July he asserted that there was an association between the Country Party and the Corporation. He said on that occasion: 
It is no secret that there have been discussions  oetween  the Wool Corporation and the leaders of the Country Party to devise this method of embarrassing the Government. 
That is, by keeping prices at very high levels. But now he has stated openly on television that 3 members of the Corporation have been associated with us in an endeavour to manipulate the Australian wool market, and has denigrated the standing and reputation of the Australian Wool Corporation. I imagine that it would be quite easy now to identify those 3 members of the Corporation because any 3 members of the Corporation who might have been in the Australian Club during the last month would be the 3 members concerned. 
I move: 
That the Government be censured: 
for its failure to observe proper parliamentary procedures which would require the honourable member for Eden-Monaro to substantiate serious allegations he has made inside and outside the Parliament reflecting on the integrity of the members and staff of the Australian Wool Corporation and the Leader and  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party, 
for its tacit support of the allegations made by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro of a conspiracy between the Leader and  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party and three unnamed members of the Australian Wool Corporation and involving senior staff of the Corporation to support the price of wool at excessively high levels in order to embarrass the Government, 
for its refusal to support proposals intended t.i require the honourable member for EdenMonaro to produce the written evidence he claims to possess in relation to his charge, and 
for prejudicing the future marketing of the Australian wool clip through permitting uncertainty to exist as to the integrity of the Australian Wool Corporation thereby creating doubt as to its future commercial operations. 
This is indeed a serious charge to level against the Government. It is not a censure motion that is taken lightly. The allegations and accusations that have been made are indeed serious. They involve 2 senior members of this House. They involve the members of the Board of the Australian Wool Corporation and the senior staff of that Corporation and, of course, these charges have very serious implications as to the operations of that body in trying to realise the best possible price for 
11284/74- -R. - [16] 
the Australian wool industry and in the best interests of the nation. One might have thought that the acts of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  were unwise, silly comments made on the spur of the moment, but they appear now to be part of a campaign - almost a plot - to try to discredit the Corporation in its operations and in its capacity to be able to make commercial judgments on what price ought to be paid for Australian wool. 
If this is an operation to try to discredit my  Deputy,  the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  and myself, it has rudely backfired. All it has done has been to throw tremendous doubt on the Australian Wool Corporation and the whole Australian wool industry. Such allegations and inferences could not have come at a worse time for the Australian wool industry. The wool industry at the moment is under very great pressure of declining prices and uncertainty as to the future. When we hear reports of actions and counter-actions being taken by countries overseas, what we need is strong support for the Corporation and confidence that the actions it is taking are right and proper. But what is the level of intent of the honourable member? What is this sinister plot that he is trying to play with? Is he trying to discredit the Corporation in order to have it reconstructed or is he endeavouring to have certain members of the Corporation dismissed and replaced with boobs who will be nothing more than lackeys for the present Government? What is the idea? The members of the Corporation are men of great standing, with a great reputation and of enormous experience. Of all the organisations in Australia none has a prouder record in the short period it has been in operation than the Australian Wool Corporation which has done a mammoth job through a most difficult period of time in trying to stabilise and to bring about orderly marketing of wool in this country. Its whole record is one to be commended - a very laudable one indeed. 
If the honourable member does not substantiate his evidence by presenting it to this House, then he must stand discredited in the eyes of this Parliament and he must stand discredited as a disgrace to the Australian wool industry, as a man who has been long involved with the industry and as a man who has contributed to it. I give him due regard. 
During his period in the Bureau of Agricultural Economics he earned a reputation for some of his activities concerning the objective measurement of wool. So the statements that have been made were not made by a man who knows nothing about the industry or the seriousness of the situation in which it . is placed. He is a very senior member of the Government. He is a senior member of the Government's rural committee. He is a member who has professional training in this area and I know that he understands just what this is doing. So unless the evidence is presented to this Parliament all we can say is that he is acting with evil intent to try to discredit members of Parliament and members of the Corporation. 

 His statements, of course, run in conflict with the attitude of the Government. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has stated that the Government will support the Corporation in its commercial judgment for the rest of the wool selling season. We applauded that. We thought that was a sensible statement to make at a time when people were getting very nervous about the action of the Government in backing up the Corporation. But last week we saw a series of statements, emanating from the honourable member for Eden-Monaro, which have thrown utter confusion into the standing and the reputation of the Corporation. The honourable member has made the very serious allegation that there is collusion - indeed, a conspiracy - to try to manipulate the market. These things cannot be taken lightly. These statements would have been cabled to countries all over the world which are interested in buying Australian wool. I have had experience in negotiating with other countries and in the course of those negotiations and discussions they have brought forward series of quotes of statements by prominent Australians and members of Parliament which might have supported those countries in their particular line of argument. So it is without doubt that all the statements that have been made by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro and the general controversy that has built up around this question in the last few days would be cabled overseas. The point now has arrived where I think it is so serious that the Government should make a statement alleviating the fears, suspicions and the concern of these foreign countries which are so interested in buying Australian wool. What must they think of the accusation that there is a conspiracy to build up a false price in the market? The record of events during last week shows a deliberate program by the honourable member to try to discredit the Corporation, and, of course, my  deputy  and me. This has gone on unabated and without any genuine apology for what he has been doing or saying. In this House last Tuesday, 16 July, the honourable member for Eden-Monaro alleged that there was a conspiracy between the Australian Wool Corporation and the Australian Country Party to support the price of wool at excessively high levels so as to embarrass the Government. In a speech during the debate on the Address-in-Reply the honourable member said, and this was his first comment: 
It is no secret that there have been discussions between the Wool Corporation and the leaders of the Country Party to devise this  mehod  of embarrassing the Government. 
That could have passed as nothing more than political jargon in the course of a debate in this House and one would have let it go by. But the next night, last Wednesday, on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program 'Country Hour', the. honourable member for Eden-Monaro made the following statement in relation to the activities of the Australian Wool Corporation in the week's sales: 
We've got written comments that the members of the Wool Corporation have identified themselves with the Country Parly and, not only that, but they have colluded  wih  the Country Party to establish an embarrassing position for the Government 
Then at 7 o'clock that night in the ABC news bulletin the honourable member for EdenMonaro said: 
In this last week I've received another account of conversations by 3 members of the Wool Corporation in which they said that they had discussions with the Leader and Deputy Leader of the Country Party along the lines that they would support the market at an excessively high level in order to embarrass the present Government. 
Honourable members will recall that in the House last Wednesday night both the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party and I made personal explanations to point out that what the honourable member for Eden-Monaro had said was completely false and that we had had no association with the Corporation and its members in any way relating to the price fixing of the market. In fact, I have not had any association for a considerable period of time with any of those members. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro replied that he accepted our statements but he continued to claim that he had evidence to support his allegations. It did not matter that we disavowed his claims. He went on rampantly making the allegations without presenting the evidence. 
In the House last Thursday morning the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory, representing the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt),  said that he was quite sure that anything said by the honourable member for EdenMonaro would be backed by facts. There is a senior member of the Government saying: 'Right. He can make those statements because he knows they will be backed by facts'. We want to see those facts and we believe that the Government has a responsibility to produce them for the whole nation to see because the matter needs to be examined closely. To give the honourable member for Eden-Monaro an opportunity to produce the evidence I have spoken of, I moved after question time last Thursday for the suspension of so much of the Standing Orders as would prevent the honourable member from substantiating his allegations with the evidence that he claims to have in his possession. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  replied in his usual manner, but I think this time he disgraced even many of his colleagues sitting behind him. They know that the honourable member for EdenMonaro has caused great damage to the Australian Wool Corporation and to the wool industry as a whole - damage that cannot be measured but which is unquestionably very serious. 
Unfortunately no honourable members opposite had the courage to support the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders so that this matter could be cleared up and I would think that today they will use their numbers again to try to win this motion, as they undoubtedly will. But unless this matter is resolved a very serious cloud will remain over the whole of the operations of the Corporation and the industry. Members of the Government Party knew that the honourable member for Eden-Monaro had lost his political pants last week; so when we moved for the suspension of Standing Orders they crowded around to protect him and to save him from having to back up the charges which he made. No doubt they will try to do the same thing today. One would have thought that last week's episode would end the whole affair. But in the Australian Broadcasting Commission program 'Country Hour' last Friday the honourable member repeated his allegations and again claimed that he had evidence to support them. He said: 
Members of the Corporation claimed that they have spoken to the Leader and Deputy Leader of the Country Party in order to organise a reserve price well above commercial limits and thereby embarrassing the Government.  1 would certainly like to know who are these members of the Corporation who are supposed to have spoken to me and to my  deputy  because, as we have said, we have had no such discussions with any members of the Corporation. This allegation is nothing more than a furphy for some political motive which we have not been able to understand, except that we know the consequences of what is happening. On this program the honourable member said that he accepted the statements made by my  deputy  and me and said that he apologised for any embarrassment that he had caused us. But he went on to say: 
But the fact remains that we do have evidence that 3 members- of the Wool Corporation made this claim. 
Asked to name the 3 members, the honourable member said: 
I would not like to name them. 
How weak can one get? There are 9 members of the Corporation under suspicion; three of them are being accused. To which three of  that  nine is the honourable member referring? This is what we would like to know. He said that he had a verbatim account of conversation in which 3 Corporation members made the claim, reinforced by other evidence.  I  take this to mean that the honourable member has a verbatim transcript from a recording or from shorthand notes taken at the time. Asked whether he was prepared to produce the evidence, the honourable member said on this program: 
No, I am not, because I have given  the . . . 
He hesitated at that  point,  and then went  on to  say: 
I know that the evidence that is available is in the hands of the people who can make the appropriate decisions. 
Asked whether he had handed the evidence to the Minister for Agriculture the honourable member said: 
The Minister has access to exactly the same material. 
Today the honourable member is reported in the Melbourne 'Sun-News-Pictorial' as pressing for a judicial inquiry into the activities of the Australian Wool Corporation. So you will see, 

 Mr Speaker, that the honourable member's allegations still hang over the heads of the members of the Corporation. It is no use calling for an examination of the activities of the Corporation unless one has some bona fide evidence to verify these very serious charges which the honourable member has made. 
In the same ABC program last Friday, the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Corporation,  Mr Maiden,  was asked about the honourable member's allegations.  Mr Maiden  is a man of great distinction with a great administrative record and an impeccable reputation - 
What a frightful thing to say.  Mr Maiden  has been a senior public servant. This is the sort of character assassination which seems to be going on at the moment. People throw accusations at anybody, particularly a person who has not a chance to refute them in this House. On this ABC program last Friday, on which several people were being interviewed,  Mr Maiden  said: 
They are completely untrue and I welcome this opportunity to refute the allegations that have been made. 
Asked if the Corporation's actions were based on commercial or political judgment, MiMaiden said: 
It is a completely commercial judgment where senior members of the Corporation or the Corporation staff have not discussed with anybody outside the Corporalion what our action in the market-place should be. 
Asked why he thought the charges had been made by the honourable member for EdenMonaro,  Mr Maiden  replied: 
I wouldn't have a clue. 
Asked if allegations of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro had damaged the Corporation's public standing,  Mr Maiden,  with great restraint and with his usual politeness and courteousness, replied: 
I don't think it helps. 
What an understatement! He does not think it helps. Goodness me, ask anybody in the Australian wool industry today just what they think of the implications of what has happened. 
Then we come to the Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt.  He was interviewed in the same program and when he was asked  to  comment on the accusations of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro, he replied:  If the person who made them feels that they can be substantiated, it is up to him to do so. 

 Mr Speaker, I would agree with the Minister on that point. Surely anybody with any decency would at least publicly substantiate his charges in this House. We certainly gave the Government the opportunity to do that last week but no, it sheltered and ran away from doing so. Why? Why has the Government deferred this matter? Are we going to hear the substantiation by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro in this House today? I certainly hope we will, so that the matter can be taken further if these accusations have any substance in them. 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro should substantiate the allegations he has made, which have placed the Corporation in a very difficult position. The situation now,  Mr Speaker,  is that the honourable member says he is very sorry about the accusations he has made against myself and the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party, and has accepted our statements. But he keeps on making and compounding his allegations, which is exacerbating the whole circumstances of the Corporation in its operation. 
Every member of the Corporation is under a cloud of suspicion, and there are nine members. Senior members of the Corporation's staff are under suspicion. The Corporation's role in the wool market is suspect because of the honourable member's charges. It is impossible for the Corporation to carry out its functions properly and effectively, and to win and hold the trust, confidence and respect of the world's wool trade, with these unsubstantiated allegations hanging over its head. If the Corporation is to be accepted as an operator in the wool market then it must be above suspicion and above reproach. How can the wool buyers from various countries around the world bid with confidence in our wool market if they hear from the honourable member for Eden-Monaro - a senior member of the Government Party on rural affairs - that the Corporation is not acting in a fair dinkum way, that it is making false, inflated bids as part of some politically inspired plot to rig the wool market? That is precisely what the honourable member has claimed - that the Australian wool market is rigged, that it is faked. 
The implications for Australia are very disturbing indeed. It must be difficult for anybody who does not know accurately its operations, its functions and the people on it to trust the Corporation. They must be very concerned as to what is the real price to which Australia is prepared to back the wool market. The wool industry cannot remain under this cloud of suspicion. The honourable member's allegations, as far as I am concerned and as far as the  Deputy  Leader of my Party is concerned, are completely false. They have been denied. They have been denied by both of us. They have been denied by the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Corporation. It is time that the honourable member's claims were exposed and it is time that this Government, or members of the Government who make these wild, extravagant charges, were pulled into line. The Government, in the form of the Leader of the House, has acted shamefully in this matter. The Leader of the House last week prevented the matter from being discussed and cleared up. As a result, the only course of action we had to take was to level a censure motion against the Government, and I hope that the Government will see the seriousness of what has happened. 
The wool industry people all around the world are entitled to think that claims made by a Government member with special interest in the wool industry do carry some weight. If the wool industry is not to suffer further as prices become depressed and the situation becomes more difficult, and if the Wool Corporation is to have its reputation and its credibility and integrity restored, the Government must take action now to clear the Corporation of the charges made by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. If the Government fails to do this, it will deserve to be censured in the terms of my motion, and the honourable member for Eden-Monaro will remain permanently discredited because of the irresponsible and dishonest allegations which he has made. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. In view of the claims by the Treasurer and the  Deputy  Prime Minister that the actions taken last night in this Parliament were not anti-inflationary measures and in view of the Treasurer's allegation that there was a wage explosion and a serious economic situation, I ask the Prime Minister: What action does his Government intend to take to try to arrest the inflationary spiral? Or will the situation be allowed to drift by until the Budget comes out in about 6 weeks time? 
The 2 Bills before the House, the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill, are both pieces of legislation to make a conglomerate organisation to enable a financial institution to be set up to help Australia have the greatest possible local equity in the development of resources or for joint ventures with overseas interests. The AIDC legislation had its genesis during the Gorton-McEwen era when it was decided it was necessary to have such a corporation to help mobilise funds principally from overseas to enable Australian interests to develop resources or to maintain a fair equity share in association with overseas interests. Since then there have been moderate changes to the Act but last year with a change of government a new Bill brought into the House did bring about some quite significant changes. It brought into being the National Investment Fund, extended the operations of the AIDC and also included the national interest clauses. However, tonight we are examining another Bill which really amends the Bill that was brought in last year. 
The Opposition has approached this legislation conscious of its own concern and the concern of the Australian people that Aus tralians ought to participate as fully as possible in the development of their nation's industry. This broadly has been the stated purpose of the AIDC legislation. Yet we have also been aware that many sectors of Australian industry had legitimate fears that the legal powers proposed for the Corporation and the intentions of the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  went far beyond this worthy objective. These apprehensions were understandable in view of the philosophy of the present Government and the awesome scope of the legislation. A broad cross-section of interested views was obtained on this subject in the hearings of the Senate committee which was established last year to review the legislation that was then before the Parliament. The Opposition recognises that the considerable amendments that have now been brought forward by the Government are largely in response to suggestions made at that inquiry and also the amendments that were presented by the Opposition when the AIDC legislation was previously debated in this House. 
These amendments do not. alter substantially the awesome potential of the Corporation, nor do they in themselves provide a safeguard against Government attempts to use the Corporation in a discriminatory or inappropriate manner. Yet it is a fact that many of the unacceptable features have been deleted or amended and that this legislation now attracts a fair degree of support in the community which, if not unqualified, is at least there. The Opposition has been at pains to try to separate the mythology from the reality of the talk about foreign investment and Australian equity. Yet we must be responsive to the mood of the nation while acting responsibly to ensure that safeguards are provided. 
The Opposition accepts that the Government has made important amendments to the legislation since its introduction to the House of Representatives last year. No doubt these amendments reflect to a considerable extent the conclusions to be drawn from the evidence compiled by the Senate committee reviewing this legislation. The Opposition believes that it would have been proper for the Government to delay reintroduction of this legislation, if necessary until the Senate committee was reconstituted and able to present the formal outcome of its previous deliberations and the Senate itself had made a decision. However, given the Government's intention to press the issue at this stage, the Opposition has carefully reviewed the legislation in the light of the amendments presented. 
The amendments proposed by the Government to the 1973 legislation related largely to the Australian Industries Development Corporation Bill, and of course added to that Bill the National Investment Division. The first amendment expands the functions of the Corporation to include the development of technology. The Opposition has no objection to this amendment in this new legislation. 
Clause 6(A) of the previous legislation allowing the Corporation to raise monies otherwise than by borrowing, is deleted so that the sole source of the Corporation's funds would be borrowings both from within and outside Australia. One area of ambiguity that needs to be clarified is whether the Corporation would be required to adhere to the variable deposit ratio - the VDR - requirement as it applies to finance raised overseas. There is a question on notice about this matter, but as the AIDC is associated with the Australian Loan Council agreement this aspect needs clarifying. I would hope that, when the Minister replies he will give the House an appropriate reply. 
Under Clause 6 (i) of the new legislation, the Corporation shall have regard not only to the current monetary policy of the Australian Government but to its policies in relation to trade practices, the environment, industrial relations and the efficiency of industry. In themselves, there can be no objection to these guidelines unless there was some positive Government direction to the Corporation associated with them. The Opposition is assured that this is not the intention, and that they are in fact broad guidelines to be considered by the Corporation in its activities. 
Indeed, the Opposition notes that the legislation does not empower the Minister or the Government to give such directives. The expansion of Clause 6 (iii) is a significant amendment in that it confines the horizons of the Corporation to areas of national importance so that in deciding whether to provide finance to a particular company or engage in a particular project, the importance of the industry to the Australian economy would be one of the 2 criteria to be considered by the Corporation. In other words, this imposes some restraint on the narrowness of interest of the Corporation in the nation's industrial structure. 
Perhaps the most important amendments are those in clauses 6(iv) and 6(v) of the new Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. Clause 6 (iv) provides that, at least on an annual basis, the Corporation will review its holdings of shares in companies and where the Corporation holds a substantial number of shares in a company and is satisfied that retention of the shares is not necessary for the proper performance of the functions of the Corporation, the Corporation will seek to dispose of those shares unless this involves doing so at a loss. The exception to this provision is where money is invested by the Corporation to meet operating expenses. 
Clause 6 (v) provides that the Corporation shall not seek to acquire a controlling interest in a predominantly Australian company except where this acquisition is necessary to prevent foreign interests acquiring this controlling interest, or where the acquisition - and this is very important - -takes place with the consent of the board of directors of the company. This provision constitutes a substantial amendment and will considerably allay fears in the business community of a marauding enterprise operating in the marketplace without discrimination or co-operation. Many representations have been made on this aspect. It was feared that the Government might use the Corporation to intervene against the wishes of the principals of a company. It is a great relief to find this clause in the legislation. 
The Opposition understands that, if as a result of its annual review the Corporation does dispose of its share-holdings, it would be on the basis that it was not to foreign interests. I certainly hope that the Government would not find it necessary to do so, but it could occur that the only buyer it could obtain when disposing of shares might represent overseas interests. 
No change has been made to the Bill as it relates to the national interest division. It provides that the Minister may write to the Corporation requesting consideration of involvement in a particular industry. Where the Board decides that it is unable to participate, but the Government feels that the project should be carried out and the Corporation should be involved, the Minister may, with the concurrence of the Treasurer, provide suitable guarantees to enable the Corporation to raise the finance. Provision is made also in this national interest section for moneys to be appropriated by Parliament to the Corporation for this purpose by way of loan or otherwise. 
It is important that these guarantees of appropriations be approved by Parliament so that there is a Parliamentary check on public funds being used for these purposes. I do not think it is understood by some people in the public that if the Minister is to exercise this direction that consideration be used for national interest involvement, legislation would need to pass through both Houses and Parliament would have to give its approval. This section of the legislation would presumably be invoked if the project were to large for the Corporation or the return on capital were delayed to an excessive extent. In any event, it would involve the use of public money to assist a project proposed by the Government which, in the judgment of the Board, was not appropriate for the AIDC to be involved in. 
For understandable reasons, the Opposition expresses the most severe reservations in relation to this division, although we note the ultimate safeguard of Parliamentary approval for the appropriation of public moneys. The very nature of the projects which could be involved is such as would have to involve huge sums of money or involve investment proposals where the social returns to the community were thought by the Government or the Parliament to exceed the return to the individual investor. The making of such judgments is not easy and should be made in the context of an overall policy approach to national development. The Opposition would expect that government policy as applied to this Division would be consistently applied in its taxation and regional policies. 
We certainly call for a statement of policy from the Government as to the criteria it will adopt in assessing the national interest, and the application of these criteria to other areas of policy. We are very conscious of the burden placed on the Government's decisionmaking apparatus by this Division and of the responsibility of Parliament in agreeing to the necessary appropriations. While not opposing this section of the legislation outright, we take this attitude on the understanding that informed public debate on this subject will be assisted by a statement of government principles and that this section will be used mainly in the context of joint public and private participation for nationally important projects. 
We would expect that the National Interest Committee, which is given the task of advising the Minister on national interest projects, would have available clear terms of reference and would consult with a whole range of financial intermediaries. This Committee has a somewhat shadowy role and composition in the legislation, and the Opposition will be moving an amendment to provide that its members should be appointed by the GovernorGeneral instead of by the Minister so that the Parliament has the power to override any appointment. I may say in passing that it would be appropriate if reports by the National Interest Committee to the Minister were made publicly available so that debate can be facilitated. 
In summary, the Opposition recognises that the Government has made substantial amendments to this Bill and we believe that it is a timely recognition of the role of Parliament in general and of the Opposition in particular that these amendments substantially cover the objections raised by the Opposition at the time of the Bill's introduction last year. This illustrates clearly the need for adequate consideration of complex legislation so that all interested organisations may be involved in the process of comment and revision. It is true, of course, that the activities of the AIDC are associated with what we could call 3 different 'aspects of the combined legislation. The first is the National Interest Division, which should be involved in specialised projects at the instigation mainly of the Government, but possibly also of the Corporation. Subsequent sale of mature national interest projects could be made to the National Investment Fund if the Government so chose and in that event the proceeds from the sale would accrue to the Government - hopefully at a satisfactory rate of return. A key component of the whole structure is the National Investment Fund, with its various divisions and sources of revenue. 
A supervisory council is designed to protect the interest of subscribers to the Fund and, although the National Investment Fund Bill is little different from the comparable 1973 legislation, the amendment to empower the Governor-General to appoint one of the nonofficials members of the Council to be the  chairman  is important in view of the functions of the Council, which are broadly to supervise the administration of the Fund and determine investment policies. The Opposition recognises that the detailed operations of the National Investment Fund are only sketchily outlined in the Bill. Clearly, the operations of the various divisions of the Fund and the administration decisions have yet to be fully determined by the Government, although there have been many reports over the past few months of discussion between the Minister and financial institutions as to government requirements. 
These are matters of great importance as by far the major contributions to the National Investment Fund are to be derived from domestic equity raisings through a savings scheme, investment bonds and any superannuation or retirement plan. Clearly here is a direct case of proposed competition with established bodies such as life assurance companies and private investment funds. To the extent that the supervisory council was successful in attracting money for the National Investment Fund, the Fund could be involved in various activities in the economy. 
Such competition with existing bodies and involvement in the economy carries with it certain inescapable implications. The most obvious is that to the extent that the whole structure is successful in attracting savings, those savings will not be available to other organisations for other purposes. This can be accepted if any reallocations are the product of reasonable competition. The Opposition believes that industry itself would not adamantly oppose that concept. On the other hand, if compulsory mobilisation of life insurance funds is intended and if preferential tax concessions are granted to any investment bond scheme, for example, then obviously an additional distortion in the capital market has been created and discrimination would occur between borrowers on this market. 
The Opposition recognises that there are not grounds for opposing this legislation on the basis of these apprehensions, because this legislation does not suggest that these things will happen. Such measures would have to be introduced in separate taxation legislation, and we give clear notice that if this is attempted, the Government can expect strong opposition. As it is. there is already a considerable degree of preference provided in the legislation for exemption from stamp duty and other State taxation, although we understand that it is the intention to pay rates. This is an area of the legislation that no doubt the Senate will want to examine more closely. 
I have stated that the Opposition, on the basis of the legislation before us, cannot see a basis for objection to the National Investment Fund so strong as to cause us to prevent its passage by opposing it at all stages. On the other hand, we express severe reservations as to the positive requirement under Australian economic circumstances for the establishment of an institute of this nature. To make clear our concern, I want to state that we are opposed to the passage of this Bill until such time as we have the advantage of examining the Senate Committee's report, and until we have the benefit of the considered views which the Committee no doubt will want to have on the National Investment Fund. The executive  chairman  of the AIDC,  Sir Alan  Westerman, in evidence to the Senate Select Committee, implied that the National Investment Fund was unlikely to raise the Australian savings rate significantly. Presumably this rate could be stimulated by Government incentives for investment in the Fund, but the distortions this would create would be severe and detrimental to broad economic objectives. 
If the savings rate is not to be stimulated, then a significant diversion of Australia savings is intended. As this involves re-cutting an essentially limited cake, it is important that there is clarity as to the purposes and intentions of the Fund. Any buy-back program would be wasteful and would not achieve its purpose in the total sense, as existing equity would only be spread differently throughout the economy. We believe that the AIDC in the total sense of word, would be well advised to concentrate on strengthening Australianowned enterprise. We see it as a development financier adopting a mobile role in the capital market to the benefit of Australian industry, particularly in areas of prospective growth, high risk and new technology. It can usefully serve this role by acting as a banker and as an investment corporation. 
In terms of overseas capital, the AIDC has a very important role to play - which of course it has played in the past - of mobilising large amounts of capital with the authority and security that any government body enjoys. I stress the importance of this role, as increased foreign borrowings can in turn be used to increase Australian equity. I take this opportunity of reiterating the Opposition's attitude that the VDR requirement is inappropriate. Speaking more directly about the National Investment Fund, the Opposition believes that it is important that this fund should be limited in scope by the Parliament and that any subsequent growth should be subject to Parliamentary scrutiny and approval. We are very conscious of the potential power of this institution in the economy, and for this reason I will be moving an amendment to limit the net ability of the Corporation to issue investment bonds to a level not exceeding $500m, which would be the maximum difference between bonds raised and bonds redeemed. 
I wish to conclude with a brief comment on the question of Australian equity, as this is a subject closely related to the Bill. It is also a subject about which a considerable amount of nonsense has been talked by the Government. Australian equity is a legitimate objective, but it should be clearly understood that there are appropriate ways of achieving it and that it is not sensible to cut off the national nose  to spite  the foreign face. There must also be a clear distinction between Australian participation and Government participation. In this sense this legislation differs very much from the Petroleum and Minerals Authority legislation, which involves complete reliance upon taxpayers money and contains unlimited scope for ministerial interference without any real parliamentary check. When that particular legislation was being debated, I pointed out the clear distinction between the necessity for government control and the desirability of Australian participation. The AIDC as a whole provides the opportunity for the Australian people to be involved in the growth of the economy. That is not to say that they do not have the opportunity already, and the depressed state of the stock market indicates that their current enthusiasm for this task has been substantially dimmed by the policies of this Government. 
Nevertheless, we recognise that this legislation need not be unacceptable to industry and that it can provide an expanded instrument to serve a role complementary to other institutions. I can say this with the reservation that when the Senate Committee is reconstituted, its report will be about the previous 1973 legislation. That legislation contains some important differences from these Bills, but the area of overlap is sufficiently broad to provide the Senate with a basis for further amendment to the legislation. We will agree to this legislation provided that our amendments are accep- ted by the Government. We also add the proviso which should be carefully noted, that as the Government is not prepared to wait for the Senate Committee report, we are making this decision as an interim one pending detailed findings by the Committee. We have adopted a constructive attitude on this legislation now, as we have in the past. 
I need to conclude by saying only that the record on these Bills is not one of extraordinary obstruction as the Minister claims, but one of careful study of the kind such legislation should warrant from the national Parliament. The large number of changes already made indicates the worth of questioning and scrutiny of this legislation by the Opposition. I thank the Minister for his willingness to enter into discussions on this legislation. I am sure that the people in industry appreciate access to the Minister to do this in contrast to the reception they received from the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  The importance of the amendments the Government has introduced is itself clear proof of the need for the national Parliament of this country to adopt a careful and considered approach to this sort of legislation. If that amounts to obstruction, then it is obstruction in the national interest. Our obstruction is not designed to delay this legislation or to frustrate it but to bring forward legislation that will act in the best national interest and help to maintain the higher degree of Australian equity in Australian companies without unduly affecting the normal market forces and the commercial interests in this country. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Duthie)  adjourned. 
 I would like to say something on the amendment to clause 6 which was moved by the Opposition and accepted by the Government. The amendment may appear to be a very small one. However, it seeks to include in the Bill the requirement that Parliament be notified of appointments to the National Interest Committee. We believe that the Parliament ought to have the right to disallow such appointments when it feels that it is necessary to do so. I think that we have good reason for apprehension in respect of appointments, mainly because since this Government has been in office the list of what we believe to be political appointments - that is, appointments of people who have doubtful merits and experience in the jobs to which they were appointed - has become fairly long. 
We doubt very much the wisdom, for instance, in appointing  Mr Bob  Hawke, the  President  of the Federal Labor Party, to the Reserve Bank Board. No doubt he may have the economic experience, but in his dual capacity we doubt whether he can show the impartiality that is necessary. He would have to wear 2 very different hats - one to look after the interests of the Reserve Bank and the other to align himself with the philosophy and the policies of the Government and the Party of which he is the head. Recently Peter Westerway was appointed to the Industries Assistance Commission. This appointment certainly surprised those people outside who are looking to this organisation to give a good deal of advice and to make important recommendations. We doubt very much whether this appointment was made on the basis of his experience. Rather we think it was due to his political contribution to the Australian Labor Party. 
There are many other appointments that I could mention. But I suppose that our concern is heightened by the accusations that have been made this week about members of the Australian Wool Corporation. Some of its members are being challenged because they have had some past association with the Australian Country Party. This may be true. I suppose it is very hard to find in rural industry organisations people who may not have had some association or affiliation with the Country Party. But in this case these men were not appointed by the Party. They were appointed by the rural industry organisations. They sit on that Corporation because of their long experience and the general acceptance by the industry that they are men of high reputations and men of distinction. 
We view the appointment of people to this Committee as being appointment of men who in some cases may have some political sympathy. But I hope that that will not be a predominant requirement and that it will not hold largely in the mind of the Minister when he is selecting people for appointment. If it becomes a case of stacking this body, so that when it makes recommendations to the Government it is acting as nothing more than a dupe which will be mimicking the sentiments of the Minister or of the Government it will not be able to fulfil its role. This Committee must have on it men who have an independent view and men who will do their job as they believe it to be in the best interests of this legislation. 
I am very pleased that the Government has accepted this amendment. However, I put the Government on notice that we will be watching these appointments very closely, and if we feel that some undue political bias is being used the Opposition will take action. 
 I would not like the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  to get across the impression that he has a monopoly on objectivity in the selection of people for various committees and tribunals. I would not like him to create the impression that the previous Government acted in a way which prevented a complete representation of different sections of the community on many of those boards and commissions which were in operation. The case mentioned by the Minister was that of the appointment of  Mr Peter  Westerway to the Industries Assistance Commission. It was during my period as the Minister for Trade and Industry that a request was made by the Australian Council of Trade Unions for some trade union representation on the Tariff Board and I brought forward an amendment of the legislation to provide for an additional appointment. I accepted a recommendation from the ACTU for the appointment of  Mr McBride,  who had been an advocate for the trade union movement. He was a person highly qualified for the job. He had had a good deal of experience and, I think, added to the overall opinions of that body.  His  appointment gave a much greater objectivity to the thinking of the Board and I believe he looked after a section of the community. 
I return to my point that if people have a strong political association, great care must be taken that that does not lead to theirs becoming a dominant expression on such committees or boards. If a person with a particular political reference and a strong association with a political body is appointed, it would be in the interests of the community for a person with an opposing point of view to be on the board so that there could be a cross-exchange of points of view and so that the body would not be accused of having a strong bias but would be regarded as being objective and impartial. We have moved this amendment so that the Opposition can take action if it feels that the Minister is not acting with complete propriety. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole and agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report - by leave - adopted. 
 Mr Chairman,  I move: 
At the end of clause 5, add the following subclause: 
The Corporation shall not issue investment bonds within Australia if, in the event of the issue of those bonds, the amount remaining after deducting from the sum of the amount paid to the Corporation for the purchase within Australia of investment bonds any amounts paid by the Corporation for the redemption or repurchase of those last-mentioned investment bonds would exceed$500m. 
The Opposition considers this to be an extremely important amendment to which we hope the Government will accede. It is similar to an amendment moved previously by the Opposition. The purpose of the amendment is to put a ceiling on the fund raising of the National Investment Fund. The Fund is to be an associate organisation of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. Funds will be raised by the issuing of investment bonds and with those funds the AIDC will be able to carry out or assist in carrying out development works. But at the moment there is no ceiling on the amount of funds which can be raised. Whilst it might appear that imposing limits on the raising of funds could be rather restrictive, we know that amendments to other pieces of legislation could facilitate the marshalling of large amounts of money for the National Investment Fund and this could generate a certain amount of fear and apprehension within certain sections of the community which have some doubts and reservations as to the eventual outcome of the Corporation and its involvement in the business sector of the community. So it has been suggested that a ceiling of $500m be imposed. 
Officers of the Government have suggested that$500m would not be a large amount of money to raise if it included foreign capital. They explained to me that they could visualise circumstances in which foreign money could easily build up to several hundreds of millions of dollars and that therefore the capacity to raise money locally would be very minimal, should such a ceiling be imposed. So, the complexities of this amendment relate to trying to distinguish between moneys raised in Australia and foreign capital. What the amendment does is to impose a limit of $500m on moneys raised within Australia by means which will be available to the Government, or through the provisions of the National Investment Fund as they stand at the moment. If money is fully raised and the Government feels the need to raise more money, it would have the opportunity to bring the legislation back before the Parliament and to ask for an extension of the limit. This is not unusual. It has been done with other legislation. The Export Payments Insurance Corporation is one such case which comes to mind. That body started as a relatively small organisation to help to provide insurance cover to exporters and, as it developed and succeeded, there was a necessity to expand its capital. 
For the meantime, we would like to watch the operations of the National Investment Fund to ensure that it is acting in the national interest and is making a worthwhile contribution. If the Fund appeared to be operating satisfactorily and needed more money, the Government could take the action which I have mentioned. What this amendment really seeks to do is to limit to a net $500m the total amount of bonds issued in Australia, taking into account redeemable bonds that might be issued during the same period. I can understand that there could be foreign capital in large amounts put into the National Investment Fund. For instance, a foreign company operating in Australia which, for reasons of its own, feels embarrassed or would like to divest itself of its holding in an Australian enterprise, would divert part of that holding to the National Investment Fund. 
There could be cases where the Government is interested in attracting foreign capital from overseas but cannot because to invest further in an enterprise would give an undue overseas equity holding which might contravene the regulations or the policy of the Government. But by investing foreign funds in the National Investment Fund it would not be contravening those regulations or policies because the actual power would not be conveyed to that enterprise or project but would remain in the hands of the National Investment Fund or, through it, the Australian Industry Development Corporation. In the case of a very large project I could visualise a division of the investment fund for one particular purpose, and that is so that the overseas interests might know exactly what their funds were being used for. It may be possible to negotiate certain terms and conditions for this division which will ensure a return - either a fixed interest return or perhaps a return on investment - and, if the capital value of the project grows, there could also be provision for the investors, if they wanted to, to divest themselves of their interest, when they might be able to get the benefit of the capital gain during the period of development. 
I think there is real merit in the Government's accepting the proposal for a limit of $500m because I do not think that that would interfere with its proposal to allow foreign capital to come into Australia which is, we believe, necessary for the development of many of our projects. We do want this limit imposed and there would be great troubles in another place, I think, if there were not this ceiling, because its lack would only exacerbate those fears and suspicions which people have that the National Investment Fund could become a great financial monster. It has been requested by many sections of industry and the general public that there be this limit on the operations of the Fund. Therefore the Opposition moves this amendment as a very important amendment to the functions of the conglomerate organisation, the Australian Industry Development Corporation and the National Investment Fund. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will recall telling me 3 weeks ago that he would table the following week documents leading up to the double dissolution of the Parliament. 
I ask him when he now expects to table these documents- 
 I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Can the Minister for Northern Development give the House any information on the impact on costs in northern areas of the abolition from today of the petrol subsidy? Can he say whether the abolition of the subsidy is expected to have any effect on northern development? Can he give any specific examples of the increased prices to be expected to apply for fuels in central and northern Queensland as well as the Northern Territory? 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. During the course of question time I was misrepresented and, indeed, provoked. 1 am sorry if I caused you any anxiety,  Mr Speaker,  but I think that mine was the natural reaction of any honourable member who was being deliberately provoked by dishonest statements. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  also made some statements yesterday which were inaccurate. I was very interested to read the comments he made at his Press conference when he was asked about the statement of  Dr J.  F. Cairns about- 
Just one minute. He said- 
Relating my remarks to the personal explanation, the Prime Minister relies on texts and not on newspaper statements. I have here the text of my personal explanation. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I wish to correct the completely false and dishonest statement made by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  when referring to what I said during the election campaign. 
I have here the text of the statement I made and it explains the situation. 
On 10 May- I think this covers my personal explanation - I put out in a Press statement: The published policies of the Liberal and Country Parties - 
I withdraw it and say it was an untrue statement. The Press statement I issued will refute exactly the accusation. It read: 
The published policy of the Liberal and Country Parties is that policy on oil pricing will be  rivised  to consider what should be done after the expiry of the current agreement. I have suggested that the revision of policy should occur as soon as possible so that exploration companies might have some indication of what to expect when the agreement is renegotiated next year. 
I have not suggested an immediate increase. I gave the example in Perth of a 40 per cent increase in the present well head price of crude oil representing a cost to the motorist of about 3c a gallon. 

 Mr Whitlam has dishonestly claimed that I want the price of crude oil to rise to world parity. 
I am not saying it. This is a statement. 
I am quoting. Let me quote it. 
I continue: 

 Mr Whitlam has dishonestly claimed that I want the price of crude oil to rise to world parity. He has further dishonestly claimed that a 40 per cent rise would add 20c to the cost of a gallon petrol. 
You have deserted the north. 
I have stated categorically before that I have never supported an increase of oil price to world parity or an increase of 20c a gallon as the Government is trying to suggest. It shows the desperation of the Government when it has to rely on misquoting people to try to justify its own complete and utter failure. 
We have just listened to a rather remarkable speech by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  It is remarkable because it has all the hallmarks of a speech by a Prime Minister who is visualising that we are about to have an election. Maybe the reality of last night's events in the Caucus room has hit him today. With a change of a few votes circumstances might have been created for an election. But I do not really think that was the essence of the Prime Minister's performance tonight when he came into the chamber and gave his rallying speech. What he is really trying to do is rally the morale of his ranks who are so completely defeated and disillusioned in him as their leader. What he is trying to do is ginger up a little bit of encouragement among the ranks. All I can say, judging by the very glum looks on their faces this afternoon, is that he will have to live with his problem a little longer. 
He spoke trying to portray an enormous election victory in May. He spoke about receiving 200,000 more votes. Goodness me, 200,000 more votes for the Labor Party! Does he not realise that there were 800,000 more people voting because of the increased population and because of the reduction of the voting age from 21 to 18 years? What he did not tell us is that the Government did not get a majority of the votes. He did not tell us that the Labor vote actually decreased proportionately compared with 1972 figures. He did not tell us that his majority in the House of Representatives was reduced nor did he say that the Labor Party did not get control of the Senate. He did not reveal the fact that he lost every one of the 4 referendum questions he put to the people. He has nothing really to feel satisfied or proud about as the result of the election. 
He tried to make all manner of implications about the joint sitting of the Parliament next week. Apparently he feels that there should not be any joint sitting on the Commonwealth Electoral Bill, the Health Bills or the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. I assure the Prime Minister and the Australian people that as far as the Opposition Parties are concerned we will fight these issues right along the line. We see the Electoral Bill as being totally unfair and unjust and as nothing more than a political measure to entrench the Labor Party permanently in office. As for the Prime Minister, his hypocrisy is illustrated by a speech he made in this House in 1955 during a debate on electoral matters. He said: 
That principle is to ensure that every electorate- 
He was referring to the 20 per cent tolerance -  shall have approximately the same number of electors, so that the votes of all electors shall be equal in value. At least, the numbers should be approximately equal, within the perfectly reasonable latitude of  20  per cent above or below the quota as allowed under the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
I wonder why he changed his mind. Is it because of desperation - that he is frightened he cannot hold support in country areas of Australia? Does he want to use the device of the Electoral Act to try to rig boundaries to ensure that he can maximise votes in the city areas resulting in a loss of voice for country people? Of course we can see through what he is doing; it is so hollow and false. I only hope the Australian people realise this before it is too late. They should not have to put up with this inefficient, incompetent Government of which we see so much at the moment. 
We know that the Health Bills are designed to bring about the nationalisation of medicine in Australia - to bring about a more expensive and less efficient system of looking after the health and welfare of the Australian people. The Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill is nothing but a great authoritarian instrument designed to create an authority to bring about the nationalisation of sections of the mining industry if the Government so wishes. In the eyes of the mining industry and of the Opposition the authority will be nothing more than a great bureaucratic monster. 
At the moment we have in Australia a serious situation. We have accelerating inflation and increasing social disorder. This situation is made much more serious because we have a Prime Minister who does not command the loyalty of his own Party. Furthermore we have a Prime Minister who is not prepared to give absolute loyalty to his Cabinet and Party. He publicly comes out and disowns decisions of his Cabinet and his Party to get some public kudos for himself. Is it little wonder that such restlessness is growing in the ranks of the  Government  today? This is not a time to have a divisive Government. We should have cohesion so that the fight against inflation can be taken to every quarter of this country. Inflation must be arrested. Someone has to come to grips with today's present serious situation. 
After the 1972 election I spoke to the Canberra Branch of the Royal Institute of Public Administration. At that meeting I pointed out that I did not think it was possible for a Labor government to give consistent, stable government indefinitely because of its system of management. I said that a Cabinet of 27 would be the first downfall. I said there would be no decisiveness in a Cabinet of 27 men, it was impossible for 27 men around a table to have a fair say; they could not deal with a great volume of business. All such a Cabinet could do was produce confusion and indecisiveness. Antagonisms and divisions would arise within its ranks. This is what we see happening today. But it is not really a Cabinet of 27 men that we have under a Labor administration. We have virtually a Cabinet of 96 men where everybody thinks he has the right to express a point of view. I have my sympathy for the Prime Minister but he has to accept responsibility for that system. If he is not able to cope with it, this Government does not deserve to be in office. 
Currently we see different Ministers coming out with a succession of different remedies for inflation. Is this any way to give confidence to the Australian community which wants to know what is the Government policy? This Government has no capacity to handle the inflationary situation or the growing industrial trouble. At a time of crisis what we want is a Prime Minister who is forthright and who has the loyalty of his Party to enable him to give the sort of leadership that is required. 
In his performance in the Parliament this morning the Prime Minister indicated to his own ranks what he thought of last night's event when he narrowly won a decision by two or three votes. He laid his head on the table and said: 'You have to accept this or you will be looking for a new Prime Minister'. This morning to this Parliament he said: 'I have never lost a fight yet'. How do those members of his Party who worked genuinely for the elimination of the petrol subsidy feel? Do the members of his side of the House not have the right to express a point of view? Are they to suffer his contempt when he publicly displays his great arrogance, his self-importance and his belief in his great standing by virtually laying down another challenge in this House by claiming that he has won every fight? There cannot be government by this means. 
Perhaps the Prime Minister believes there are some things that should be done in the fight against inflation, but we have a Prime Minister who cannot act because he has the caucus albatross around his neck. It is the nation which suffers as a result. For the first time in many years - perhaps for the first time ever - responsible people and responsible newspapers are talking seriously about the prospects of a breakdown in the social structure of Australia. A few days ago Professor Downing, the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and a very eminent economist, warned of the possibility of a collapse of our democracy if inflation continued unchecked. An editorial in the 'Canberra Times' of 31 July claimed that community patterns of life and feeling in the national capital are breaking down. The editorial said this was an example of what was happening across the nation. It is worth quoting an extract from this editorial. It states: 
Oil and gas used for heating and cooking are in short supply for reasons that involve corporate profit structures, government policy, industrial action and geographical location. There is a dispute about whether meat should be sold in certain shops at certain times. The fact that the Belconnen fire- station is unmanned might have resulted in 3 deaths on Sunday afternoon. The city will be without buses, taxis, government cars, and other forms of commercial transport from midnight tonight. There is a gross shortage of housing, for sale or to let. The collection of garbage is uncertain. Doctors are leaving the city and a serious confrontation is building up between the medical profession and the public health authorities. Building workers go on strike today. Beneath all this, in Canberra and the rest of Australia, there are price profiteering, industrial upheaval, people losing their jobs, shortages of materials, vicious inflation, and alarming indecision in Federal Government. 
That was the editorial of the 'Canberra Times' summing up the situation. What more gloomy outlook could the nation have than to be faced with a situation like this. The Melbourne 'Age' in an editorial this week, described the inbuilt incapacity of the Labor Government to respond to the growing crisis facing Australia. The Melbourne 'Herald' this week said that we are sliding too fast towards anarchy. This week a New South Wales Conciliation Commissioner,  Mr Manuel,  took the most unusual course of expressing very strong criticism of the Federal Government's policies and their inflationary effects.  Mr Manuel  said that his comments might be considered improper but he felt that it would be negligent of him to sit idly by and witness what was happening to the community. He felt that he must express his strong feelings and his concern about the situation which was growing increasingly worse. 
It is easy for those of us in the Opposition to draw attention, I know, to the deception of the Labor Government at the last election, but I believe that the Australian community should now recognise who was telling the truth during the last election campaign, who tried to point out the true realities of the inflationary situation. It was Lord Keynes who said that there is no subtler, no surer means of overturning the existing basis of society than to debauch the currency. He said that this process engaged all the hidden forces of economic law on the side of destruction and did it in a manner which not one man in a million was able to diagnose. In Australia today the currency - the people's money - is being debauched, and it is being debauched at a faster and faster rate. Economics students in universities are taught that an inflation rate of 20 per cent takes a nation to the edge of social breakdown. Our inflation rate, on the June figures, was more than 16 per cent. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  told the Parliament when introducing his mini-Budget that we cannot expect any relief in the rate of inflation. In fact, it will continue to increase during the next 2 quarters. Economists of public standing are predicting inflation rates of 25 per cent and one, Professor Harcourt of the Adelaide University, has warned that inflation could reach 40 per cent by the end of next year if the present rate, of inflation is not reduced. 
Australia is facing a crisis. Never before have members of the national Parliament talked so seriously about inflation rates of 20 per cent and 25 per cent, about the effects of a pool of 200,000 unemployed, about the prospects of social disorder. Never before have economists and professors, such as Professor Downing and Professor Harcourt, moved outside their specialties and talked seriously about the state of national disruption. Australia is a lucky country but I am afraid its luck is running out. Its leaders in government have run out of unity, courage, integrity and, pretty obviously, Caucus support. During most of the postwar period Australia had an inflation rate of no more than 6 per cent. However, it has got out of hand now and currently it is something like 14 per cent. Goodness knows what it will be by the end of the year. Let there be no doubt that there is no division amongst the members of this House in concern about inflation. 
The Opposition is concerned and has brought forward positive policies to try to do something about inflation. We did this during the election campaign when we said that the Government should exercise some restraint, that there ought to be a convention of the Federal Government, State governments, employers and trade unions, to try to work out a national policy of restraint. We believe that the restrictions placed on capital inflow by means of the 25 per cent deposit rate ought to be withdrawn. I have stated before, as have the Liberal and Country parties, that the Australian dollar should be freed from the United States dollar. We have brought forward positive policies in relation to immigration, education, all areas of government, exercising a degree of restraint in the national interest. We are not just a harping, carping Opposition that does not have positive ideas. The measures we proposed during the course of the election campaign are today being recognised by the Australian people as being correct. Indeed, some of them are even now being recognised by the Government as being correct. We believe that there should be a reduction in the rate of taxation, which is imposing an increasing burden upon the ordinary working man and woman. As salaries go up and as taxes increase proportionately, is it little wonder that they demand more and more wages to try to offset that disability. 
We see in the rural sector of the community that the meat industry is running into a crisis; export sales are down 50 per cent on those of last year. We see prices greatly reduced at the wool auction sales. Last year we heard a great deal about the rural sector of the community never having had it so good. The Government used this as an excuse to impose further costs on the industry or to remove various forms of incentives which had been given to the industry. Now primary producers are saying that they have never had it so bad. There has never been so much uncertainty. There have never been such increases in costs, in conjunction with the squeeze of declining prices. Yet do we see from this Government any encouragement to reverse its decisions of last year? The answer is no. All we have from the Minister for Northern Development, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  is deathly silence. Not a word of encouragement is heard from the Government. Yet last night when it was given the first chance to Implement the suggestion contained in the Green Paper that incentives ought to be given to offset tariff costs for primary industries, it decided to abolish a petrol subsidy which was of enormous benefit to people living in remote areas of Australia. I have never known of anything so harsh and unfair. This Government deserves to be condemned for its actions. 
On behalf of the Opposition I move the following amendment to the AddressinReply: 
That the following words be added to the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply: 'But the House of Representatives is of the opinion that - 
The Government is unable to handle the economic problems that confront Australia because its policies of 
deliberately creating an intolerable rate of inflation; 
creating unemployment; and 
applying a credit squeeze with high interest rates have led to distressing social and economic dislocation; and 
The Government is to be condemned for its continued confrontation with the State governments and the undermining of their rights and responsibilities.' 
I have made a number of points in my speech. The points raised in the amendment do not cover all of the points raised by me. But if this Government is to control inflation it has to try to bring unity within its own ranks and unity in the nation. We would like to see a much greater spirit of co-operation between Commonwealth and the States and between the trade union movement and the employers. That co-operation will be needed if the Government is to succeed in bringing about that unity. 
Sitting suspended from 6.14 to 8 p.m. 

 Mr DAWKINS (Tangney) 8.0)- In rising to support the motion moved by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs 
Child), I take the opportunity of extending to you,  Mr Speaker,  my congratulations on your re-election to the Speakership of this House. The electorate which I represent is a new one and for that reason I am unable to make mention of any former member for Tangney. Might I say in passing that it is to be hoped that many years will pass before anyone can make reference to former members for Tangney. However, I pay tribute to Dorothy Tangney in whose honour the seat was named. The former  Senator Tangney  was the first woman member of the Senate; and jointly the first woman member of this Parliament. During her 25 years in the Senate she made a very distinguished contribution both inside and outside of the Parliament. 
I am sure many people will recall the stand taken by Dorothy Tangney in the aftermath of the Petrov affair when she strenuously defended the reputation of Madame Oilier.  Senator Tangney  realised that Madame Oilier, along with other innocent people, had fallen victim to a McCarthy-ite witch-hunt by the Government of the day which represented one of the most despicable acts of political chicanery that this country has ever witnessed.  Her  involvement in this affair was a clear demonstration of Dorothy Tangney's courage and belief in fair play. Just prior to her retirement  Senator Tangney  was able to reflect on her parliamentary career and say that she retired with the satisfaction of knowing that many of the things for which she had fought over the years had become accomplished facts. Surely no member of Parliament could ask for more. 
The Speech of the Governor-General also talks of things which this Government will accomplish during its current term. Those objectives are, in part, a continuation of the program which this Government began in the last Parliament. It will be remembered of course that the life of that Parliament was recklessly cut short, so for that reason the Government sees as its first task the implementation of the unfinished part of that original program. Despite the great strides that have been made in so many fields so far, further advances will now have to proceed under the constraints imposed by an economy not of this Government's making and certainly not of its liking. The workings of this economy are irrelevant to the objectives of this Government and indeed the aspirations of the Australian people. 
The shortcomings of the Australian economy have been displayed in sharp relief as a result of the determination of this Government to spread the riches more equitably and to push this nation towards the ideals so clearly enunciated in the platform on which this Government has now twice been elected. These demands were not excessive and not intemperate. They were the reasonable demands that one would expect an affluent economy to be able to meet with ease. Yet this economy has failed as capitalist economies have failed around the world. It is not surprising that Australia's capitalist system has faltered because capitalism by its nature is ill-fitted to respond to the demands of a just and equitable society. This is because the modern capitalist system is not only hopelessly ramshackled, in that it no longer conforms with its own theories, but also on those occasions when it does work it contains no mechanism for ensuring social and economic justice. 
The capitalist theory is founded on an unquestioning faith in the market whereby fair prices are determined by market forces, where resources are equally allocated in response to market forces, where levels of production are determined by market forces and so on. The problem is that while capitalism relies on market forces for its efficacy it is well-known that in reality capitalism suffers from very great deficiencies in this regard. Long ago it was recognised that no market existed that would ensure that the poor, the weak and the sick would be provided with minimum support. This deficiency has since been overcome through government intervention. 
Another major deficiency of capitalism was found in its inability, in the aggregate, to sustain balance in the economy. Because decisions on such matters as investment and levels of production were being taken separately in individual board rooms, and because the information on which those decisions were taken was imprecise, there developed great imbalance and fluctuations in such things as employment, production and prices. This major deficiency of capitalism was at least partially overcome by the acceptance of Keynesian principles which hold that governments should step in to influence aggregate demand and aggregate investment in an attempt to keep the economy in some sort of balance. This represented capitalism's greatest reprieve and allowed economies which were essentially capitalist based to continue to thrive - at least in their own terms. Over the years government involvement in these economies has continued to increase in a fairly haphazard way and in such a way as to prop up the system in those areas where it is weakest. 
Governments have increased social welfare payments, they have become more heavily committed to education, and they have provided services in those areas where free enterprise showed no interest or have taken over those services where free enterprise was unable to make a profit. Governments have provided subsidies, concessions, bounties and so on to assist industries, firms and farms which were incapable of surviving in the capitalist system. This has resulted in the creation of a pseudo-capitalist system where hardly any of the precepts and preconditions of capitalism exist as in the contemporary Australian economy. The concept of the market economy is a myth, so numerous are the aberrations which have grown up over the years. All these aberrations served to distort seriously the operation of the free market. For instance, the existence of special taxation concessions for primary industry served to make investment in agriculture more attractive than would be the case if only the market forces were operating. Similarly, the investment allowances that operated under previous governments produced the same result in terms of the allocation of resources. This is not to say by any means that these sorts of measures are necessarily bad or inappropriate. What it does confirm is that the sort of capitalism that operates in Australia relies on factors other than market forces. 
It is quite clear that the capitalist system as it operates in Australia is incapable of maintaining balance in terms of economic activity and is also incapable of providing social and economic justice without some involvement by the Government. I want to argue that a far greater degree of government involvement is necessary in order that the worst excesses of capitalism might be avoided. Before doing so I want to point to two instances of the failure of the capitalist system in Australia which bear closely on the interests of the electors of Tangney. 
I turn first to the question of home ownership which has often been des cribed at a fundamental part of the Australian dream. There has in recent times been a very great increase not only in the number of people who are seeking their own homes but also in the quality of those homes. This increase in demand is partly due no doubt to a feeling of rising affluence in the community and also to the fact that the relevant age group is an inordinately large proportion of the community. However, I suggest that there are other factors which bear significantly on this matter. The first no doubt is the failure of previous governments to provide sufficient funds for State-owned, inexpensive rental housing. This has meant that most of the rental housing available is privately owned by people intent on making a profit. The high rents that inevitably resulted only served to make the purchase of a house on a mortgage basis relatively more attractive. 
This process was spurred on by speculative builders and advertising agencies which brainwashed the community into believing that owning one's own home was not only cheaper but indeed was the only Australian thing to do. By playing on the acquisitiveness and statusconsciousness of the Australian people, these operators were able to be extremely successful. To finance this heightened and indeed artificially created demand for housing the financial institutions unleashed a flood of funds which were loaned at variable interest rates. These lenders operated largely outside the umbrella of government control and purported to possess the respectability of banks without having the wherewithal to back it up. When times are flush, when there is full employment and easy credit, this system operates deceptively well. However, when times are harsh - and it is endemic to capitalism that economic activity is punctuated by at least minor booms and slumps - then the story is quite different. The once proud home buyer realises he has been hooked. He realises that behind the rosy propaganda is the lie. He finds he is committed probably for the greater portion of his working life to something he does not really need to own and probably cannot afford. The promise that capitalism in this country makes in regard to private ownership is indeed an illusion. 
The other example which illustrates one of capitalism's inherent shortcomings is the spectre of unemployment. The people oi Tangney know far too much about unemployment. As a result of the 1971 Budget which was brought down by the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  it will be remembered that a vast pool of unemployment was created as a deliberate part of antiinflationary policy. That policy was unfortunately no more successful than it was in the Kwinana area of Western Australia where meetings of 700 unemployed men were held, where there were food handouts and other sorts of relief dispensed, where 40 building workers applied to .fill every vacancy in their industry. These people know the indignity of unemployment. They know the heartache it brings. They know of its ability to wreck families and drain friendships. These people know that as long as this capitalist economy remains in Australia, unemployment is to be expected. In a capitalist economy it is those people, typified by the ordinary working people and the struggling young, aspiring home owners, who are hit hardest in times of stress. That is their reward for behaving in exactly the way in which free enterprise capitalism calls upon them to behave. 
In order to overcome these worst excesses of the capitalist system it is important for the Government to play an even greater role in the economy, but not only for that reason. It is also necessary for the Government to take charge of the economy in order to overcome inflation because the inflation that we are experiencing today is very largely caused by the activities of the private sector, and there is no doubt that the defeating of inflation is a necessary preoccupation of this Government as it is this that will determine the rate at which it can implement its program to create a better Australia. 
I have said that the current inflationary experience is, in part, a manifestation of the fact that the economy has been unable to respond to the demands which the Government's program has made on it. Yet, as I have also said, these demands were not intemperate or excessive but simply the reasonable demands made in response to the directions of the people on 2 occasions in the past 2 years. The people did not simply vote to change the faces on the front bench; they voted for a basic change in Australian life and for a new and better Australia. Faced with this dilemma the Government must ask itself whether it is going to have its program contracted and downgraded by an economic system which is irrelevant to and incapable of meeting the demands of the Australian people. Or is it going to set about changing the economic system so that it becomes responsive to the reasonable demands of the people which that economic system is fundamentally supposed to serve? The choice to me is clear. 
We must at once work to alter the productive relationships and the processes of distribution. This must be achieved by the Government taking a larger role in the economy and by discarding the outdated principles of the market. At the moment this Government - indeed any government would be - is in the unenviable position of having to take responsibility for the success or failure of the economy without having the ability to influence that success or failure to any real extent. The Government can influence aggregate demand and certain monetary factors but this is only to tinker with a system which is full of indescribable inconsistencies and complications. The Government has very little influence over private investment as this remains dependent on the vagaries of business expectations and confidence. It is quite untenable that a government should have resort only to such anti-social and inequitable acts as credit squeezes and unemployment in order to have some influence over inflation. 
There are therefore 2 compelling reasons why the Government must work for a fundamental change in the Australian economy. The first is that only in this way will the economy become sensitive and responsive to the demands made on it by the Australian people. Secondly, it is only in this way that the Government can effectively influence the performance of the economy without recourse to actions such as credit squeezes and employment fluctuations, the efficacy of which actions are dubious in the extreme. The Government does need that control if the people are going to hold it responsible - as they must - for the performance of the economy as a whole. 
There is no doubt that the Australian people support the program of this Government and they do not believe that an outmoded economic system should be allowed to stand in the way of that program. They know that the capitalist solution to inflation is quite unacceptable and would support moves by the Government to effect those changes which are necessary for it to be in complete control of the economy. The people enthusiastically support the sort of Australia that this Government wants to build. They have endorsed those actions which the 
Government has accomplished in the last 18 months. With the cries of approval still ringing in our ears, the Government can proceed with renewed vigour to bring in a new Australia, a better Australia for all Australians. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hodges)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Chairman, I oppose this legislation. I oppose it as undesirable and unworthy of the very high traditions that have surrounded electoral matters in the Federal Parliament. I think that those people who have not taken a great interest in this electoral matter must now become highly suspicious of the Government which has become preoccupied with electoral matters. At this historical double dissolution meeting, 3 matters deal with electoral issues. Since this Government came to office we have had 6 referendums, two of which dealt with electoral matters. Why do electoral matters have such a high priority in the issues of Government? Why was this one of the first pieces of legislation to be brought in after the Government won office in 1972? Has there been any great public disquiet in this country about the way redistributions have been carried out in Federal elections? 
The legislation we are examining has virtually been the same since Federation, 72 years ago. It has been accepted by previous governments, both Labor and non-Labor. There have never been any allegations of unfairness or of rigging of electoral boundaries. During those 72 years we have seen a drift of population more to the city areas. We have seen the number of city electorates increased and fewer country electorates until today about two-thirds of the electorates come from city or metropolitan areas and onethird come from the country. If the population trends continue the imbalance will become greater, yet this legislation is going to accentuate that imbalance. So the question is why. I do not think anybody for one minute would imagine it is for the benefit of the Liberal and Country Parties. What the Government is doing is playing political trickery. It is desperately trying to secure itself in office by manipulating the electoral laws of this country. If this legislation is passed it will mean that when the electoral commissioners in future draw up electoral boundaries no account will be taken of the fact that some electorates are compact and some are enormous in size; no account will be taken of density of population and sparsity of population; no account will be taken of the disabilities caused to a member trying to meet his constituents because of their isolation, because of distance, because of the difficulties of communication. 
In addition, this legislation will reduce the maximum 20 per cent allowance above and below the quota to 10 per cent. The implication of this legislation is that a redistribution can be carried out immediately- something which, under the existing law, is not permissible. Labor will be able to carry out a redistribution virtually before every election. I wonder why the Labor Party wants this set of circumstances to obtain. 

 -Mr Chairman, it is quite obvious that the conscience of Government supporters is being pricked otherwise they would not be retaliating. I do not care what State governments in Australia do. I know that the reputation of the New South Wales Government is high and that that Government can stand up and defend its position. But this Commonwealth Government is bringing itself into disrespect by trying to manipulate and gerrymander the laws of this country. This Government brought forward a referendum proposal which was designed, supposedly, to make all electorates contain the same population. This was supposed to be the introduction of the principle of one vote one value. Of course, that was false. The Australian people saw through the proposal and rejected it. I venture to suggest that if this legislation had been put forward as a referendum proposal it too would have been rejected by the Australian people. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  lays great emphasis on the recommendations of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review. That Committee suggested that there ought to be a reduction in the variation from 20 per cent to 10 per cent above or below the quota. If the Prime Minister felt so strongly about the Committee's recommendations why did he not make that recommendation a referendum issue? He did not do so because he knew that if the Australian people had been able to examine that one single issue they would have rejected it out of hand. Our system in this country has stood the test of time; our democracy has worked well. 
The Labor Party is able to have this Joint Sitting because it was part of an overall election campaign; it was part of a total package. But did that election really give the Government any great mandate to push ahead and change the electoral laws of this country? Certainly the Labor Party won the election but not with a majority of the votes. In fact, its proportion of the votes was reduced compared with the number of votes it received in 1972, its representation in the House of Representatives was reduced, it did not get control of the Senate and it lost the 4 referendum questions. That is a very frail ground on which to believe that it can push this Parliament around and do what it likes. 
When the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  first introduced this Bill on 13 March last year he said: 
Equality of political rights is inherent in a truly democratic state. To this end, we intend to amend the law so that, as far as may be practicable, the value of the vote of one citizen shall be equivalent to the vote of another. 
The Liberal and Country Parties agree completely with the principles expressed in those words. Equality of political rights is a matter that must be guaranteed under the law in a democratic society. Equality of voting value and equality of political representation are fundamental principles which should be insisted upon and adhered to. But,  Mr Chairman,  equality of political rights, equality of voting value and equality of political representation cannot be guaranteed in a situation where electorates which vary in size from less than 4 square miles to almost 900,000 square miles, are required under law to have virtually equal numbers of electors. That is a statement of fact which is beyond challenge. No fair minded Australian citizen would accept that there is the same degree of equality of representation when the member who represents such an enormous electorate has to face the difficulties of communication and isolation. The concept of equal numbers of voters in electorates could be substantiated if all electorates were the same- if they were the same size, if they had the same physical conditions, the same problems, the same growth, the same population patterns. But, of course, they are not all the same; they are different. That is why a variation has been allowed. 
The whole effect of this legislation we are discussing will be only to make these big country electorates even bigger and the city electorates smaller. I think it should be a matter of some interest to the Australian public that the Minister for Services and Property, who is in charge of this legislation, has the smallest electorate in Australia. It would be quite unfair to imagine that he could understand the difficulties of a member representing an enormous electorate. It would be quite unfair to expect him to know what is involved in travelling around an electorate of a few hundred thousand square miles in which there might be not one but 20 or 30 communities. It would be impossible for him to understand that the member representing one of these country electorates could be responsible not for one or two local government authorities, as a city member may be, but for 10, 20 or even 30 local government authorities. In such an electorate there might be a duplication of problems and a wide variation of difficulties. 
I think it ought to be made quite clear that the Labor Party Government is seeking to have this legislation approved with one motive in mind, and that should not need any explanation to the Australian people. Let us consider a few things. The Labor Party claims that it is dedicated to the concept of one vote one value. That is not true. The Labor Party is not dedicated to the concept of one vote one value. Recently a referendum was held which sought to have electorates divided in such a way .that they had the same number of people. That does not mean that they would have the same number of voters. There is a vast difference between the two. When electorates are divided on the basis of the number of people account is taken of all those people under the age of 1 8 years and all those new Australians who are not naturalised. The result is that there is a wide variation in the number of electors in each electorate. In fact, using the 1971 census as a basis, the Prime Minister would have had in his electorate 46,000 electors, whereas some of the large country electorates would have had 70,000 voters. So the concept of one vote one value which the Government is putting up is a phoney one.  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras, who is a gentleman well known to honourable members and honourable senators as an expert in electoral matters, said that a redrawing of electoral boundaries on the basis of that referendum 'would result in the greatest departure from the principle of one vote one value ever seen in the history of House of Representatives elections'. 
Let us look at the situation in Tasmania. The enrolments in electorates in that State are 10,000, 12,000 or 15,000 fewer than the average in some of the other Australian States. Why has the Labor Party for so long tolerated this gross violation of the principle which it claims to hold so sacred? The reason is that it would mean a loss of Labor seats in Tasmania. The basic point about this legislation is that it will have the effect of reducing the maximum tolerance from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. The proposal will mean that the maximum tolerance of 20 per cent will no longer apply. Yet the Government has so skilfully and falsely presented the facts to the Australian people that many think that there is a difference of 40 per cent between country electorates and city electorates. The people who draw up new electoral boundaries for the electoral divisions have never applied, to the best of my knowledge, the maximum 20 per cent tolerance. They may have gone as high as 17 per cent for some of the gigantic electorates, but the variation is usually between 5 per cent and 15 per cent. At the moment the average difference between all of the country electorates and the city electorates in Australia is 8 8  per cent. Is that a gross distortion? Is that unfair? 
Again we must ask ourselves: Why is the Labor Party going to such extraordinary lengths to change the law? Why has it decided to change its mind now when it accepted, when it was in office earlier, the fairness and the reasonableness of the electoral laws? Obviously the Prime Minister has changed his mind, as was said by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  The Prime Minister, when speaking on an electoral Bill, said: 
The numbers should be approximately equal, within the perfectly reasonable latitude of 20 per cent allowed under the Act. 
Why has he changed his mind? I think we all know the reason. Perhaps he is becoming a little desperate about the tenure of his office. The Labor Party desperately needs to create the means by which it can hold a redistribution and, in doing so, create more city seats and fewer country seats. The Labor Party cannot win country seats. In fact, it is losing them. So it is adopting the tactic 'if you cannot beat them, abolish them'. That might be OK, but let us see what happens to the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Whan),  the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  or the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  when the people of those electorates have to make a judgment on who betrayed their interests in this Parliament. The Labor Party could not care less about the democratic rights of Australian citizens to enjoy equality of representation in this Parliament. 
Let us have a quick look at what happens in some of the other countries with no less an attachment to democracy and equality of representation than we have. In New Zealand enrolments range from 16,000 to 21,000, a difference of about 35 per cent. In Britain, the mother of modern democracies, at the recent election, which was immediately after a redistribution, numbers ranged from 22,000 to 96,000, a difference of 400 per cent to 500 per cent. Britain could fit into any one of a number of our large country electorates. In Canada, where there has only recently been an election, the number of electors in electorates varies from 7,500 to 80,000. The Minister for Services and Property returned from Canada only recently, but we did not hear a word about this variation. I wonder why. Of course we are not suggesting that there ought to be the same variation in Australia, although if the percentage differences were applied here there would be a greater variation. We are saying that the present legislation has stood the test of time as being fair and reasonable, and it should remain so. I ask why senators and members really want to change the present electoral laws when the Labor Party won the last election with 49.3 per cent of the vote and gained 52 per cent of the seats in the House of Representatives. Why does the Minister who is in charge of this legislation not mention that in his electorate- that tiny city electorate- he has 6,000 fewer voters than I have in my electorate? 
In case the message has not got through, I repeat that Labor wants the situation changed so that it can be absolutely sure that it remains in office. The Labor Government is very prone to talk about gerrymanders and to allege that there have been gerrymanders in Federal redistributions. There have been no gerrymanders of Federal electorates. Each redistribution has been carried out strictly according to the law. The Labor Party is trying to break down the fair and just principles by which Federal redistributions have been carried out since Federation. In a ringing climax to one of his speeches on this matter, the Minister said: 
Electoral laws should provide equality, not privilege. 
The Country Party agrees with this principle. We say that electoral laws should, as far as is humanly possible, provide each Australian with equality of representation in this Parliament. We say that the changes now proposed will further reduce the opportunity for country people to enjoy equality of representation while increasing the privilege of others who already enjoy easy access to political representation. We say that without any alteration in our present law there is arising a heavy imbalance of political representation concentrating more and more power in city areas. The proposed law will further aggravate this problem. 
Representation is far more than the right to mark a ballot paper. It means the right to be adequately and fully consulted in discussing problems and in marshalling ideas. It means the right to be able, without undue difficulty, to talk to one's member. It means the right of proper communication with those who sit in this Parliament. That right is in large measure denied to many members who represent large country electorates. It is a right which, for country people, is protected to a degree, but only to a limited degree under existing law. We of the Australian Country Party would be failing in our duty if we did not fight with all our power to protect the limited rights of country people and to fight to secure for country people something approaching the equality of representation to which they, as Australian citizens, are entitled. Labor's electoral self-interest and electoral greed discredit this legislation. 

 -Mr Chairman, I oppose this legislation. I oppose it as undesirable and unworthy of the very high traditions that have surrounded electoral matters in the Federal Parliament. I think that those people who have not taken a great interest in this electoral matter must now become highly suspicious of the Government which has become preoccupied with electoral matters. At this historical double dissolution meeting, 3 matters deal with electoral issues. Since this Government came to office we have had 6 referendums, two of which dealt with electoral matters. Why do electoral matters have such a high priority in the issues of Government? Why was this one of the first pieces of legislation to be brought in after the Government won office in 1972? Has there been any great public disquiet in this country about the way redistributions have been carried out in Federal elections? 
The legislation we are examining has virtually been the same since Federation, 72 years ago. It has been accepted by previous governments, both Labor and non-Labor. There have never been any allegations of unfairness or of rigging of electoral boundaries. During those 72 years we have seen a drift of population more to the city areas. We have seen the number of city electorates increased and fewer country electorates until today about two-thirds of the electorates come from city or metropolitan areas and onethird come from the country. If the population trends continue the imbalance will become greater, yet this legislation is going to accentuate that imbalance. So the question is why. I do not think anybody for one minute would imagine it is for the benefit of the Liberal and Country Parties. What the Government is doing is playing political trickery. It is desperately trying to secure itself in office by manipulating the electoral laws of this country. If this legislation is passed it will mean that when the electoral commissioners in future draw up electoral boundaries no account will be taken of the fact that some electorates are compact and some are enormous in size; no account will be taken of density of population and sparsity of population; no account will be taken of the disabilities caused to a member trying to meet his constituents because of their isolation, because of distance, because of the difficulties of communication. 
In addition, this legislation will reduce the maximum 20 per cent allowance above and below the quota to 10 per cent. The implication of this legislation is that a redistribution can be carried out immediately- something which, under the existing law, is not permissible. Labor will be able to carry out a redistribution virtually before every election. I wonder why the Labor Party wants this set of circumstances to obtain. 

 - Mr Chairman, it is quite obvious that the conscience of Government supporters is being pricked otherwise they would not be retaliating. I do not care what State governments in Australia do. I know that the reputation of the New South Wales Government is high and that that Government can stand up and defend its position. But this Commonwealth Government is bringing itself into disrespect by trying to manipulate and gerrymander the laws of this country. This Government brought forward a referendum proposal which was designed, supposedly, to make all electorates contain the same population. This was supposed to be the introduction of the principle of one vote one value. Of course, that was false. The Australian people saw through the proposal and rejected it. I venture to suggest that if this legislation had been put forward as a referendum proposal it too would have been rejected by the Australian people. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  lays great emphasis on the recommendations of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review. That Committee suggested that there ought to be a reduction in the variation from 20 per cent to 10 per cent above or below the quota. If the Prime Minister felt so strongly about the Committee's recommendations why did he not make that recommendation a referendum issue? He did not do so because he knew that if the Australian people had been able to examine that one single issue they would have rejected it out of hand. Our system in this country has stood the test of time; our democracy has worked well. 
The Labor Party is able to have this Joint Sitting because it was part of an overall election campaign; it was part of a total package. But did that election really give the Government any great mandate to push ahead and change the electoral laws of this country? Certainly the Labor Party won the election but not with a majority of the votes. In fact, its proportion of the votes was reduced compared with the number of votes it received in 1972, its representation in the House of Representatives was reduced, it did not get control of the Senate and it lost the 4 referendum questions. That is a very frail ground on which to believe that it can push this Parliament around and do what it likes. 
When the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  first introduced this Bill on 13 March last year he said: 
Equality of political rights is inherent in a truly democratic state. To this end, we intend to amend the law so that, as far as may be practicable, the value of the vote of one citizen shall be equivalent to the vote of another. 
The Liberal and Country Parties agree completely with the principles expressed in those words. Equality of political rights is a matter that must be guaranteed under the law in a democratic society. Equality of voting value and equality of political representation are fundamental principles which should be insisted upon and adhered to. But,  Mr Chairman,  equality of political rights, equality of voting value and equality of political representation cannot be guaranteed in a situation where electorates which vary in size from less than 4 square miles to almost 900,000 square miles, are required under law to have virtually equal numbers of electors. That is a statement of fact which is beyond challenge. No fair minded Australian citizen would accept that there is the same degree of equality of representation when the member who represents such an enormous electorate has to face the difficulties of communication and isolation. The concept of equal numbers of voters in electorates could be substantiated if all electorates were the same- if they were the same size, if they had the same physical conditions, the same problems, the same growth, the same population patterns. But, of course, they are not all the same; they are different. That is why a variation has been allowed. 
The whole effect of this legislation we are discussing will be only to make these big country electorates even bigger and the city electorates smaller. I think it should be a matter of some interest to the Australian public that the Minister for Services and Property, who is in charge of this legislation, has the smallest electorate in Australia. It would be quite unfair to imagine that he could understand the difficulties of a member representing an enormous electorate. It would be quite unfair to expect him to know what is involved in travelling around an electorate of a few hundred thousand square miles in which there might be not one but 20 or 30 communities. It would be impossible for him to understand that the member representing one of these country electorates could be responsible not for one or two local government authorities, as a city member may be, but for 10, 20 or even 30 local government authorities. In such an electorate there might be a duplication of problems and a wide variation of difficulties. 
I think it ought to be made quite clear that the Labor Party Government is seeking to have this legislation approved with one motive in mind, and that should not need any explanation to the Australian people. Let us consider a few things. The Labor Party claims that it is dedicated to the concept of one vote one value. That is not true. The Labor Party is not dedicated to the concept of one vote one value. Recently a referendum was held which sought to have electorates divided in such a way that they had the same number of people. That does not mean that they would have the same number of voters. There is a vast difference between the two. When electorates are divided on the basis of the number of people account is taken of all those people, under the age of 1 8 years and all those new Australians who are not naturalised. The result is that there is a wide variation in the number of electors in each electorate. In fact, using the 1971 census as a basis, the Prime Minister would have had in his electorate 46,000 electors, whereas some of the large country electorates would have had 70,000 voters. So the concept of one vote one value which the Government is putting up is a phoney one.  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras, who is a gentleman well known to honourable members and honourable senators as an expert in electoral matters, said that a redrawing of electoral boundaries on the basis of that referendum 'would result in the greatest departure from the principle of one vote one value ever seen in the history of House of Representatives elections'. 
Let us look at the situation in Tasmania. The enrolments in electorates in that State are 10,000, 12,000 or 15,000 fewer than the average in some of the other Australian States. Why has the Labor Party for so long tolerated this gross violation of the principle which it claims to hold so sacred? The reason is that it would mean a loss of Labor seats in Tasmania. The basic point about this legislation is that it will have the effect of reducing the maximum tolerance from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. The proposal will mean that the maximum tolerance of 20 per cent will no longer apply. Yet the Government has so skilfully and falsely presented the facts to the Australian people that many think that there is a difference of 40 per cent between country electorates and city electorates. The people who draw up new electoral boundaries for the electoral divisions have never applied, to the best of my knowledge, the maximum 20 per cent tolerance. They may have gone as high as 1 7 per cent for some of the gigantic electorates, but the variation is usually between 5 per cent and 1 5 per cent. At the moment the average difference between all of the country electorates and the city electorates in Australia is 8 te per cent. Is that a gross distortion? Is that unfair? 
Again we must ask ourselves: Why is the Labor Party going to such extraordinary lengths to change the law? Why has it decided to change its mind now when it accepted, when it was in office earlier, the fairness and the reasonableness of the electoral laws? Obviously the Prime Minister has changed his mind, as was said by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  The Prime Minister, when speaking on an electoral Bill, said: 
The numbers should be approximately equal, within the perfectly reasonable latitude of 20 per cent allowed under the Act. 
Why has he changed his mind? I think we all know the reason. Perhaps he is becoming a little desperate about the tenure of his office. The Labor Party desperately needs to create the means by which it can hold a redistribution and, in doing so, create more city seats and fewer country seats. The Labor Party cannot win country seats. In fact, it is losing them. So it is adopting the tactic 'if you cannot beat them, abolish them'. That might be OK, but let us see what happens to the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Whan),  the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham),  the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  or the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  when the people of those electorates have to make a judgment on who betrayed their interests in this Parliament. The Labor Party could not care less about the democratic rights of Australian citizens to enjoy equality of representation in this Parliament. 
Let us have a quick look at what happens in some of the other countries with no less an attachment to democracy and equality of representation than we have. In New Zealand enrolments range from 16,000 to 21,000, a difference of about 35 per cent. In Britain, the mother of modern democracies, at the recent election, which was immediately after a redistribution, numbers ranged from 22,000 to 96,000, a difference of 400 per cent to 500 per cent. Britain could fit into any one of a number of our large country electorates. In Canada, where there has only recently been an election, the number of electors in electorates varies from 7,500 to 80,000. The Minister for Services and Property returned from Canada only recently, but we did not hear a word about this variation. I wonder why. Of course we are not suggesting that there ought to be the same variation in Australia, although if the percentage differences were applied here there would be a greater variation. We are saying that the present legislation has stood the test of time as being fair and reasonable, and it should remain so. I ask why senators and members really want to change the present electoral laws when the Labor Party won the last election with 49.3 per cent of the vote and gained 52 per cent of the seats in the House of Representatives. Why does the Minister who is in charge of this legislation not mention that in his electorate- that tiny city electorate- he has 6,000 fewer voters than I have in my electorate? 
In case the message has not got through, I repeat that Labor wants the situation changed so that it can be absolutely sure that it remains in office. The Labor Government is very prone to talk about gerrymanders and to allege that there have been gerrymanders in Federal redistributions. There have been no gerrymanders of Federal electorates. Each redistribution has been carried out strictly according to the law. The Labor Party is trying to break down the fair and just principles by which Federal redistributions have been carried out since Federation. In a ringing climax to one of his speeches on this matter, the Minister said: 
Electoral laws should provide equality, not privilege. 
The Country Party agrees with this principle. We say that electoral laws should, as far as is humanly possible, provide each Australian with equality of representation in this Parliament. We say that the changes now proposed will further reduce the opportunity for country people to enjoy equality of representation while increasing the privilege of others who already enjoy easy access to political representation. We say that without any alteration in our present law there is arising a heavy imbalance of political representation concentrating more and more power in city areas. The proposed law will further aggravate this problem. 
Representation is far more than the right to mark a ballot paper. It means the right to be adequately and fully consulted in discussing problems and in marshalling ideas. It means the right to be able, without undue difficulty, to talk to one's member. It means the right of proper communication with those who sit in this Parliament. That right is in large measure denied to many members who represent large country electorates. It is a right which, for country people, is protected to a degree, but only to a limited degree under existing law. We of the Australian Country Party would be failing in our duty if we did not fight with all our power to protect the limited rights of country people and to fight to secure for country people something approaching the equality of representation to which they, as Australian citizens, are entitled. Labor's electoral self-interest and electoral greed discredit this legislation. 
-We have just listened to the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  present the Government case for the establishment of a petroleum and minerals authority. He has presented it in the rosiest manner in which one could possibly present it. He has glossed over the real substance of this legislation. One would think that there are no contentious issues in it whatsoever, but the facts are that the proposed establishment of this new authority has put gloom into the mining and energy industries in Australia. Today there is no confidence at all in this area. The Minister talked in glib terms about Australian ownership. In referring to overseas ownership he has used figures which are not correct and which have been challenged previously. He has even used figures from his own department showing that Australian ownership is not something like 38 per cent but is more like 64 per cent. He has talked about the need for greater Australian ownership. Everybody in this House would like to see a maximum Australian ownership. But it is not this legislation which will give greater Australian ownership; it is legislation which has been brought in by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in relation to the Australian Industry Development Corporation which will facilitate the marshalling of funds to try to give a greater Australian participation and involvement in resources. It is just a cover-up to talk about greater Australian ownership by the use of this piece of legislation. 
The Opposition Parties strongly oppose this legislation. But before going into the substance of the legislation I say that when this Bill last came before the House of Representatives I said that there were grounds for grave doubt as to whether the passage of the Bill through the 2 Houses of Parliament conformed to section 57 of the Constitution to enable it to be a double dissolution issue. The Senate reaffirmed this point of view by taking a vote on an amendment that this Bill be not allowed to proceed. That amendment was defeated by an equal vote. But it shows that within the Senate there were very strong reservations as to whether this Bill should proceed. There has been litigation before the High Court. No doubt there will be further litigation. It is the view of the Opposition Parties that this 
Bill should not be included with the other 5 Bills for the Joint Sitting of this Parliament. Not only does the Bill offend the political beliefs of those on this side of the House but also it does not conform with our free enterprise principles and the spirit which is necessary to develop this country and especially its mining resources. This is probably the worst piece of legislation that we have seen introduced into this Parliament. It has been conceived out of prejudice and it is motivated by the desire for more political power. It conflicts with the sovereign rights of the States and it confuses existing Commonwealth laws. Its legal drafting is shoddy and crude and it provides no legislative safeguards for people affected by the legislation or for the taxpayer. It is a monstrous piece of legislation. I appreciate the fact that these proceedings are being shown on national television so that people might hear some of the facts relating to this legislation which they may not have been able to glean up to now from the biased reporting in many of the newspapers, particularly by socialist and left wing writers who believe that this is a sound piece of legislation. 
By bludgeoning through the Parliament such wide ranging powers, without consultation with the State governments or the industry, in a Bill with such wide ramifications the Government is making a sham of the democratic process. If this legislation passes through the Parliament by the sheer weight of numbers, as no doubt it will, there is little doubt that there will be further litigation on it in the courts of this country. The Minister and his Government have launched and fostered a campaign to create the feeling that the mining and energy industries in Australia are unAustralian and are not acting in the best interests of this nation. If people have listened to some of the speeches of members of the Government Party- I must say that the speech made today by the Minister for Minerals and Energy was one of the mildest he has made; he is generally spitting venom at foreign companies and multinational companies- they will understand that there is a deliberate campaign going on in this nation to discredit the mining industry and to usher in this grand new Authority which is going to take over the development of mineral and energy resources in Australia and supposedly do it in a much more efficient manner than private enterprise has been able to. 
In all fairness, why does this Government not acknowledge the enormous contribution that the mining industry has made to this nation? Were it not for the enormous development of the mining industry during the last decade, Australia would have had an economic recession when the rural industries collapsed because of drought and very low prices. The mining industry made up the gap. In the last decade it has created new towns in remote areas of Australia and has provided railways and roads. Much of this work has been done with the money of mining companies. It has created jobs for Australians and, as we see the employment situation become worse, I think we will find some moderation by this Government in criticising these great firms which are giving thousands of jobs to Australians, especially skilled Australians. It has been the greatest form of decentralisation that Australia has seen in the last 25 years. It is of enormous importance. Let nobody underestimate the dependence of this nation on the mining industry. Why has that industry succeeded? It has succeeded because people have been prepared to risk their capital in searching for mineral and energy resources and developing them. People have had faith in this country and faith in themselves. They have been ready to work hard, to go to harsh areas and to work under difficult conditions. We owe a debt to the Australian mining industry and it should not be criticised and poisoned as Ministers of this Government have done. 
No doubt this Bill is designed to bring the industry into subjection to the Government and particularly to the Minister. The claim that we need an authority such as that which is proposed cannot be substantiated. The Australian Government and the State governments already have complete control and complete ownership of the natural resources of this country. No individual, firm or company, whether it be Australian or foreign owned, controls or owns the minerals and energy of this country. Governments make the laws and lay down the rules. The Government already has all the power it needs to control, to regulate and to direct the mining industries of this country. Why is the Minister so anxious to have this new powerful authority? He wants more and more control. He wants to be able to dominate the whole of the mining and energy situation in Australia. Never have we seen such far-reaching powers being given to a Minister or such wide-ranging all-embracing powers being given to an authority as exists in this legislation. Surely such powers and such highly contentious issues deserve a great deal more explanation from this Government than we have had up to date. Parliament and particularly the industry needs the courtesy of some explanation. The industry does not seem to be able to get a policy out of the Government on so many issues related to energy, uranium and to the pipeline system. The industry is just being stymied at the moment. The whole industry is being set back. 
The Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill seeks to put the Government into the mining and energy business in a big and dangerous way. The Authority would not just advise, supervise, control and direct these industries but it would get right into the act itself. It could do this simply by taking over existing enterprises on whatever terms it thinks fit. If people are starting to wonder what we mean when we talk about socialism let them have a look at this piece of legislation. This socialist Government that we have in Australia at the moment is set upon giving all power to this Authority so that it can control the industry, nationalise it and socialise it if it so wishes. The Authority would not only advise the Government on policy, lay down rules and regulate and control the industry, but also it would explore, develop, extract, refine, transport and market minerals and energy in this country. The Authority would lay down the rules but it does not have to stick to them itself. It would put itself in a privileged position to make it difficult for private enterprise to be able to compete with it. Surely we have not come so near to being a socialist State that this Parliament can allow this sort of monstrous proposal to be approved. 
We do not reject the concept of a commission being able to regulate the industry and to advise the Government. In fact, a Senate committee set up in 1971 recommended that there ought to be a commission to use regulations where activities went across State borders and to be an independent authority advising the Government. But we cannot accept the proposal that has been brought forward. This proposal offends the principles of democratic rights which we believe are so precious to a democratic society, and mean so very much to the spirit and the life of this country. As I said earlier, the Authority would be empowered to take over existing enterprises on whatever terms it thought fit. There are no safeguards and there are no limits written into this legislation. The Authority need merely publish a notice in the Australian Government Gazette naming any area of Australia and that area then becomes a declared area. The Authority could move in and carry out whatever activities it likes. It could take over mineral or petroleum assets or reserves which any individual or any company may have against the will of the individual or company. All the individual or company would be sure of getting would be a royalty. There is no guarantee at all that compensation will be paid for the assets that have been confiscated. 
Is it little wonder that we are fighting so hard to stop this monstrous proposal? This is the kind of thing that is expected in a dictatorial State, not in Australia. The Authority would simply override the rights of the States. Its activities are not subject to any of the existing laws, including the State Mining Acts- Acts which protect the landholder and people who have mining licences or leases. If the Minister tells the Authority to do something and the Authority loses money on the deal, I wonder who will lose. Certainly it will not be the Minister; it will be the poor old taxpayer. How many government enterprises make a profit? Goodness me, when one looks at the mess which the Government has made of managing the country, one would hardly want to encourage the Government to move into the mining industry or the energy industry. I think even the Government's most avid and dogmatic supporters must be having a lot of doubts now about the Government's capacity to manage anything. 
There may have been some wisdom in amending this Bill to take out the obnoxious and undesirable aspects of it. But come hell or high water, this Minister was not going to allow his Bill to be interfered with. He has become a living legend in the mining and energy industries. He is legendary. He is a shadowy figure. Few people in the mining and energy industries know him. 
-There is a lot of physical substance to him. But he is a shadowy figure as far as anyone knowing him is concerned. He does not talk to people; he does not seem to want to talk to people.  His  Department has no idea what is going on inside his mind. In fact, the officers of his Department are in a state of dazed confusion. The Minister sits in his office and between bouts of mumblings about dreaded foreigners and capricious multi-national corporations he dreamsand he dreams some very expensive dreamsabout a national pipeline grid. While this is going on the whole program for the search for oil in Australia winds down to a very serious situation, and the mining industry gropes along bewildered and rather concerned. The trouble is that when the Minister says something he is generally wrong. Only last week he was trying to justify the pipeline going across to Palm Valley. He said there is 7 trillion or 8 trillion cubic feet of gas there. The Bureau of Mineral Resources has said that there is less than 2 trillion cubic feet of gas there. Of course, what is frightening is not the Minister's ignorance of these matters but the fact that many of these gigantic projects for which the taxpayer will have to provide many millions of dollars, are based on the ignorant facts which the 
Minister brings forward. He talks about the pipeline being extended from Palm Valley across to the north west shelf where there is approximately 1 8 trillion cubic feet of gas. But the company, which is concerned with that project and which has spent an enormous amount of money looking for oil and gas, has had its resources appropriated by this Government. The company cannot sell its products to anybody but the Pipeline Authority. It has no idea when the Authority will take its products or what quantity the Authority will need or what price the Authority will pay for the products. This has been going on for the last 12 months, at a time when there has been a world energy crisis. If that company were given instructions right now it would take it 6 years to get the gas on-shore. This is the situation. 
The Minister has another idea about converting gas to petroleum. Goodness me, that would run into hundreds of millions of dollars. It is a most inefficient process. He would get a drop of petrol to meet our needs, but the gas would realise 3 or 4 times as much as could be obtained for the petrol produced from it. The whole idea is quite insane, but it shows the ridiculous ideas that are coming forward. Can you imagine the Authority implementing these ideas with your money and saying that it is in the best interests of Australia? This Minister has done a great deal to harm the Australian mining and energy industries by his open hatred of free enterprise and his obsession about foreign companies. I am not frightened to stand up and say that foreign companies have done a great deal for the development of this country and that they will do a darned sight more than this Authority or this Minister will ever do. But as our oil reserves run down, as they are running down, and as we are almost wholly dependent on Bass Strait, within a few years we will have only about 30 per cent self sufficiency in oil. This is a calamity and it is the Australian consumer who will be hurt. We oppose this legislation because it is tainted with bureaucracy and it smells of socialism. For these reasons we will continue to fight it wherever we can. 
We have just listened to the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  present the Government case for the establishment of a petroleum and minerals authority. He has presented it in the rosiest manner in which one could possibly present it. He has glossed over the real substance of this legislation. One would think that there are no contentious issues in it whatsoever, but the facts are that the proposed establishment of this new authority has put gloom into the mining and energy industries in Australia. Today there is no confidence at all in this area. The Minister talked in glib terms about Australian ownership. In referring to overseas ownership he has used figures which are not correct and which have been challenged previously. He has even used figures from his own department showing that Australian ownership is not something like 38 per cent but is more like 64 per cent. He has talked about the need for greater Australian ownership. Everybody in this House would like to see a maximum Australian ownership. But it is not this legislation which will give greater Australian ownership; it is legislation which has been brought in by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in relation to the Australian Industry Development Corporation which will facilitate the marshalling of funds to try to give a greater Australian participation and involvement in resources. It is just a cover-up to talk about greater Australian ownership by the use of this piece of legislation. 
The Opposition Parties strongly oppose this legislation. But before going into the substance of the legislation I say that when this Bill last came before the House of Representatives I said that there were grounds for grave doubt as to whether the passage of the Bill through the 2 Houses of Parliament conformed to section 57 of the Constitution to enable it to be a double dissolution issue. The Senate reaffirmed this point of view by taking a vote on an amendment that this Bill be not allowed to proceed. That amendment was defeated by an equal vote. But it shows that within the Senate there were very strong reservations as to whether this Bill should proceed. There has been litigation before the High Court. No doubt there will be further litigation. It is the view of the Opposition Parties that this 
Bill should not be included with the other 5 Bills for the Joint Sitting of this Parliament. Not only does the Bill offend the political beliefs of those on this side of the House but also it does not conform with our free enterprise principles and the spirit which is necessary to develop this country and especially its mining resources. This is probably the worst piece of legislation that we have seen introduced into this Parliament. It has been conceived out of prejudice and it is motivated by the desire for more political power. It conflicts with the sovereign rights of the States and it confuses existing Commonwealth laws. Its legal drafting is shoddy and crude and it provides no legislative safeguards for people affected by the legislation or for the taxpayer. It is a monstrous piece of legislation. I appreciate the fact that these proceedings are being shown on national television so that people might hear some of the facts relating to this legislation which they may not have been able to glean up to now from the biased reporting in many of the newspapers, particularly by socialist and left wing writers who believe that this is a sound piece of legislation. 
By bludgeoning through the Parliament such wide ranging powers, without consultation with the State governments or the industry, in a Bill with such wide ramifications the Government is making a sham of the democratic process. If this legislation passes through the Parliament by the sheer weight of numbers, as no doubt it will, there is little doubt that there will be further litigation on it in the courts of this country. The Minister and his Government have launched and fostered a campaign to create the feeling that the mining and energy industries in Australia are unAustralian and are not acting in the best interests of this nation. If people have listened to some of the speeches of members of the Government Party- I must say that the speech made today by the Minister for Minerals and Energy was one of the mildest he has made; he is generally spitting venom at foreign companies and multinational companies- they will understand that there is a deliberate campaign going on in this nation to discredit the mining industry and to usher in this grand new Authority which is going to take over the development of mineral and energy resources in Australia and supposedly do it in a much more efficient manner than private enterprise has been able to. 
In all fairness, why does this Government not acknowledge the enormous contribution that the mining industry has made to this nation? Were it not for the enormous development of the mining industry during the last decade, Australia would have had an economic recession when the rural industries collapsed because of drought and very low prices. The mining industry made up the gap. In the last decade it has created new towns in remote areas of Australia and has provided railways and roads. Much of this work has been done with the money of mining companies. It has created jobs for Australians and, as we see the employment situation become worse, I think we will find some moderation by this Government in criticising these great firms which are giving thousands of jobs to Australians, especially skilled Australians. It has been the greatest form of decentralisation that Australia has seen in the last 25 years. It is of enormous importance. Let nobody underestimate the dependence of this nation on the mining industry. Why has that industry succeeded? It has succeeded because people have been prepared to risk their capital in searching for mineral and energy resources and developing them. People have had faith in this country and faith in themselves. They have been ready to work hard, to go to harsh areas and to work under difficult conditions. We owe a debt to the Australian mining industry and it should not be criticised and poisoned as Ministers of this Government have done. 
No doubt this Bill is designed to bring the industry into subjection to the Government and particularly to the Minister. The claim that we need an authority such as that which is proposed cannot be substantiated. The Australian Government and the State governments already have complete control and complete ownership of the natural resources of this country. No individual, firm or company, whether it be Australian or foreign owned, controls or owns the minerals and energy of this country. Governments make the laws and lay down the rules. The Government already has all the power it needs to control, to regulate and to direct the mining industries of this country. Why is the Minister so anxious to have this new powerful authority? He wants more and more control. He wants to be able to dominate the whole of the mining and energy situation in Australia. Never have we seen such far-reaching powers being given to a Minister or such wide-ranging all-embracing powers being given to an authority as exists in this legislation. Surely such powers and such highly contentious issues deserve a great deal more explanation from this Government than we have had up to date. Parliament and particularly the industry needs the courtesy of some explanation. The industry does not seem to be able to get a policy out of the Government on so many issues related to energy, uranium and to the pipeline system. The industry is just being stymied at the moment. The whole industry is being set back. 
The Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill seeks to put the Government into the mining and energy business in a big and dangerous way. The Authority would not just advise, supervise, control and direct these industries but it would get right into the act itself. It could do this simply by taking over existing enterprises on whatever terms it thinks fit. If people are starting to wonder what we mean when we talk about socialism let them have a look at this piece of legislation. This socialist Government that we have in Australia at the moment is set upon giving all power to this Authority so that it can control the industry, nationalise it and socialise it if it so wishes. The Authority would not only advise the Government on policy, lay down rules and regulate and control the industry, but also it would explore, develop, extract, refine, transport and market minerals and energy in this country. The Authority would lay down the rules but it does not have to stick to them itself. It would put itself in a privileged position to make it difficult for private enterprise to be able to compete with it. Surely we have not come so near to being a socialist State that this Parliament can allow this sort of monstrous proposal to be approved. 
We do not reject the concept of a commission being able to regulate the industry and to advise the Government. In fact, a Senate committee set up in 1971 recommended that there ought to be a commission to use regulations where activities went across State borders and to be an independent authority advising the Government. But we cannot accept the proposal that has been brought forward. This proposal offends the principles of democratic rights which we believe are so precious to a democratic society, and mean so very much to the spirit and the life of this country. As I said earlier, the Authority would be empowered to take over existing enterprises on whatever terms it thought fit. There are no safeguards and there are no limits written into this legislation. The Authority need merely publish a notice in the Australian Government Gazette naming any area of Australia and that area then becomes a declared area. The Authority could move in and carry out whatever activities it likes. It could take over mineral or petroleum assets or reserves which any individual or any company may have against the will of the individual or company. All the individual or company would be sure of getting would be a royalty. There is no guarantee at all that compensation will be paid for the assets that have been confiscated. 
Is it little wonder that we are fighting so hard to stop this monstrous proposal? This is the kind of thing that is expected in a dictatorial State, not in Australia. The Authority would simply override the rights of the States. Its activities are not subject to any of the existing laws, including the State Mining Acts-Acts which protect the landholder and people who have mining licences or leases. If the Minister tells the Authority to do something and the Authority loses money on the deal, I wonder who will lose. Certainly it will not be the Minister; it will be the poor old taxpayer. How many government enterprises make a profit? Goodness me, when one looks at the mess which the Government has made of managing the country, one would hardly want to encourage the Government to move into the mining industry or the energy industry. I think even the Government's most avid and dogmatic supporters must be having a lot of doubts now about the Government's capacity to manage anything. 
There may have been some wisdom in amending this Bill to take out the obnoxious and undesirable aspects of it. But come hell or high water, this Minister was not going to allow his Bill to be interfered with. He has become a living legend in the mining and energy industries. He is legendary. He is a shadowy figure. Few people in the mining and energy industries know him. 
-There is a lot of physical substance to him. But he is a shadowy figure as far as anyone knowing him is concerned. He does not talk to people; he does not seem to want to talk to people.  His  Department has no idea what is going on inside his mind. In fact, the officers of his Department are in a state of dazed confusion. The Minister sits in his office and between bouts of mumblings about dreaded foreigners and capricious multi-national corporations he dreamsand he dreams some very expensive dreamsabout a national pipeline grid. While this is going on the whole program for the search for oil in Australia winds down to a very serious situation, and the mining industry gropes along bewildered and rather concerned. The trouble is that when the Minister says something he is generally wrong. Only last week he was trying to justify the pipeline going across to Palm Valley. He said there is 7 trillion or 8 trillion cubic feet of gas there. The Bureau of Mineral Resources has said that there is less than 2 trillion cubic feet of gas there. Of course, what is frightening is not the Minister's ignorance of these matters but the fact that many of these gigantic projects for which the taxpayer will have to provide many millions of dollars, are based on the ignorant facts which the 
Minister brings forward. He talks about the pipeline being extended from Palm Valley across to the north west shelf where there is approximately 1 8 trillion cubic feet of gas. But the company, which is concerned with that project and which has spent an enormous amount of money looking for oil and gas, has had its resources appropriated by this Government. The company cannot sell its products to anybody but the Pipeline Authority. It has no idea when the Authority will take its products or what quantity the Authority will need or what price the Authority will pay for the products. This has been going on for the last 12 months, at a time when there has been a world energy crisis. If that company were given instructions right now it would take it 6 years to get the gas on-shore. This is the situation. 
The Minister has another idea about converting gas to petroleum. Goodness me, that would run into hundreds of millions of dollars. It is a most inefficient process. He would get a drop of petrol to meet our needs, but the gas would realise 3 or 4 times as much as could be obtained for the petrol produced from it. The whole idea is quite insane, but it shows the ridiculous ideas that are coming forward. Can you imagine the Authority implementing these ideas with your money and saying that it is in the best interests of Australia? This Minister has done a great deal to harm the Australian mining and energy industries by his open hatred of free enterprise and his obsession about foreign companies. I am not frightened to stand up and say that foreign companies have done a great deal for the development of this country and that they will do a darned sight more than this Authority or this Minister will ever do. But as our oil reserves run down, as they are running down, and as we are almost wholly dependent on Bass Strait, within a few years we will have only about 30 per cent self sufficiency in oil. This is a calamity and it is the Australian consumer who will be hurt. We oppose this legislation because it is tainted with bureaucracy and it smells of socialism. For these reasons we will continue to fight it wherever we can. 
I second the motion that there should be a suspension of Standing Orders to allow a full and complete debate on the economy and industrial affairs. The Opposition is making a sham of this Parliament. 
Government supporters- Hear! Hear! 
I mean the Government is making a sham of the Parliament. But the way Government supporters are going on it will not be long before they are in opposition. They are falling into complete disarray. We even wonder sometimes who is going to be the Prime Minister from day to day. This Government is making a sham of Parliament. It called us back at great expense to amend 2 Bills which represent a compromise arrangement between the Opposition and the Government. A week ago the Government was saying that the Senate was acting as an obstructionist House and was frustrating the Government. Yet the Government is now accepting the amendments moved in the Senate because it is not prepared to face up to the Australian people with the tactics it was pursuing to have more and more central power in Canberra. 
We are all gathered in this Parliament today but the Opposition is given no right to express its points of view. Question time has been dispensed with- a very rare performance in this House. The Opposition has asked for a debate on the economy and industrial affairs when the country is gripped in one of the worst economic and industrial crises ever. The nation is clamouring for leadership. The people want some indication from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  as to what the policies of the Government are, but they are hearing nothing. All they see is the Prime Minister acting like the titular head of the nation while the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  goes ahead and makes more and more statements each day. Obviously he is the man with all the executive power while the Prime Minister is nothing more than a constitutional mark. He does not give the leadership which this country desperately needs at the moment. Yet we hear and read in the newspapers of growing concern and unrest, meetings being organised and fear in the hearts of people, and we wonder just where the whole situation is going to end. Inflation is running rampant, there is a shortage of goods, petrol is unavailable. 
Surely this is a time when this House ought to be given the opportunity to have a full and comprehensive debate on these matters instead of members being stifled the way they are. The 2 Bills that the House has been brought together to consider can be handled in a matter of minutes. Why not allow the Prime Minister to make his nationwide address here in this Parliament instead of on television next week? Is he frightened of criticism? Is he frightened of counter points of view being put forward? There are counter points of view. Everybody is concerned about the statements which are emanating from the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the  Deputy  Prime Minister. The  Deputy  Prime Minister talks about the system as the cause of the Government's trouble. Of course, last week the Senate caused the trouble, and a few weeks before that it was foreign capital and multinational corporations. Now it is being said that the system should be changed; that we ought to have a socialist system. Apparently the only way to control inflation is to put the whole economy into a straitjacket. 
These are the reasons why we believe there ought to be a full debate. Let the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  get up and put his point of view. He is not game or he is frightened that his Department will be further discredited by members of his own Government. It is a shocking state of affairs when the Treasury is being denigrated and downgraded publicly and being used as a scapegoat, as the Leader of the Opposition said, for the inadequacy and incompetence of this Government in its management of the economy. The economy is in the worst mess we have seen it in. We just do not know where this Government will finish up in its handling of the economy. A Budget will be presented in a few weeks time, but surely today would have been a wonderful time, by way of preamble to the Budget, to have a debate about how the people are feeling and for the Opposition at least to express what I believe is the majority view of the Australian people, who have just about completely lost confidence in this Government and its handling of economic and industrial matters. 
I second the motion. 
Yes, you are pretty blue and you will be bluer by the time we finish with you. It should not have been necessary to move this motion but the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  in his usual smart alec way, challenged the Opposition to move a censure motion. The Opposition did not want unduly to take up the time of the House today. It wanted to debate a matter of public importance, so that the matter could be debated publicly and so that the Parliament could be used as a safety-valve for free expression in this country. But the Opposition was criticised for even wanting to do that. Apparently it was supposed to move a censure motion. I can well imagine that the Government would feel that a censure motion might be moved against it because it is in such a mess and in such disarray, because there is such a vacuum of leadership and because there is such industrial chaos in the country, but the Opposition felt that this was not the appropriate time for a censure motion. However, as the Leader of the House wants to force the issue, we believe we ought to have a debate and we are prepared to have a debate. In a minute when the Leader of the House goes on with his normal tirade about taking up the time of this Parliament, let him not accuse the Opposition, because he is responsible for this motion to suspend Standing Orders. 
What chaos the country is in! We see unemployement rising at the rate of about 4,000 a week. Even Ministers are predicting that the number is likely to rise to 200,000 or 250,000 by early next year. Unemployment is growing in country areas. Indeed, it is much worse there than in the capital cities. But of course this Government never shows any sympathy to those people outside the metropolitan areas. Forty per cent of the population exists outside the capital cities and at the moment 52 per cent of the unemployed are in those areas. Only 26 per cent of the vacancies are in country areas. In other words the ratio of people applying for jobs to the number of vacancies is about 4 to 1. This situation is deteriorating rapidly as economic circumstances in rural industries- primary, mining and secondaryget very much worse. 

 -Yes, Mr Speaker. I am pointing out the deteriorating situation in regard to the economy, the industrial situation and the vacuum of leadership. There is a vacuum of leadership. One would almost think that the Prime Minister was in exile at the moment. It is difficult to find him giving any point of view. 
It is quite obvious that the Left has taken over this Government. Two very alarming statements have been made in the last 24 hours by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  They have said that the present system needs changing. Apparently one system they wish to change is the free expression of this Parliament by the use of its full debating facilities. They want to change the capitalist system, attack private enterprise and to replace it with socialism, with Government control and Government involvement. They are on the march. They are ruthless and determined. They are going to crawl right over the top of the Prime Minister to achieve their aspirations. If it drives the Prime Minister mad, well and good. He could resign if he wants; they do not care. We had the ludicrous situation today of a public announcement in the Press that the Prime Minister has no intention of resigning, yet. 
Yes. Next week it might be a different picture. The situation is serious. We are prepared to censure the Government. We want to have this censure motion debated immediately. I know of no time in my political career when the situation has been more dangerous or more critical than it is at the moment. One would expect a responsible government to have the courage to allow such a debate to take place. 
I should like to associate the Australian Country Party with the expressions of condolence of the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition to  Sir John  Kerr, our Governor-General, and to express our sorrow at the sad loss of his wife. He was appointed as Governor-General during a period of her illness but she showed enormous courage in not weakening for one moment during his promotion to that very high office. She was a lady who devoted her life to helping other people. She had enormous ideals and was a great example to the nation. In particular, she was very concerned with the preservation and the strengthening of the family as the foundation of our society. The circumstances are particularly sad in that  Sir John  lost his wife so soon after assuming his important position. The office of GovernorGeneral is indeed a lonely one but is now made ever so much more lonely for  Sir John  in not having his partner. Our sympathy goes to  Sir John  with our understanding of the very sad position that he is in at the moment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable members standing in their places. 

 - Mr Speaker, Australians feel a very close kinship with the New Zealand people. On this occasion we too feel the effect of the tragic loss of New Zealand's relatively new Prime Minister who had made a very great impact in his own country and, indeed, in Australia. He was a man who won this respect by bis sincerity and through the confidence that he was able to engender in people. I had the opportunity to meet him briefly on a number of occasions and I must say that I was impressed by the stature of the man. He was quiet. He was dignified. But he had an enormous grasp of a wide range of subjects. Whilst his educational opportunities might have been rather limited, he did have an intellectual capacity that could match that of the best of educated people. 
I think it is very sad when a nation is robbed of a leader particularly if that leader is in the prime of his life and at the point of his political career when he can do so much. Australia and New Zealand are two countries which do need to enjoy close relations and to understand each other. The Right Honourable Norman Kirk did add to this understanding and did help to strengthen the bond and relationship between New Zealand and Australia which I am sure will continue to grow under the new administration. The sympathy of the Country Party is extended to the New Zealand nation and to the Kirk family. 
-The Prime Minister will know that industrial action over recent weeks and months has caused serious disruption of fuel supplies. I ask the Prime Minister whether he knows that the serious dislocation of fuel supplies still exists with the storage and distribution system now virtually exhausted. Will the Prime Minister do all he can to rectify the present position and will he consider two suggestions which might lessen the chances of such disruption occurring in the future? Firstly, will he immediately set up a committee of Ministers, comprised of such people as the Ministers for Minerals and Energy, Transport and Defence, to consult the oil industry, the unions and State authorities with a view to building some safeguards into the storage and distribution system? Secondly, will he ask the royal commission which is at present inquiring into the petroleum industry whether it will look into the matter of fuel distribution with a view to recommending measures which might reduce the prospects of similar disruption in the future? 
Australia is living on the edge of a precipice as far as fuel is concerned. It is an indictment of the Government, which claims to have such close links with the unions, that the Australian community has been brought to such a state of disruption by the actions of militant unions. Australia today is 70 per cent self-sufficient in petroleum, yet the Australian motorist too often finds his service station closed, with a sign outside reading: 'Sorry, no petrol'. Not only is the motorist's tank empty, but also on-farm supplies are empty, the service station tanks are empty, the oil companies' district depots are empty and the bulk storages are empty. In fact, the whole storage and distribution system is virtually empty. The trouble is that, even if full production can be maintained, and the distribution system works properly, it will be a considerable time before the situation can be brought back to normal. 
There is little doubt that there is a definite policy being followed to keep Australia's fuel reserves at the barest minimum. The objective of this policy is to ensure that when there is industrial action in the oil industry- as happens with great frequency- there is an immediate impact, an immediate bite, so that the pressure on the community is felt quickly. I may be wrong. I hope I am. But I do not think I am. It's very hard to escape the conclusion that the stranglehold of unions on fuel supplies is seen as providing a very good starting point for a national offensive which  Mr Mundey,  the  President  of the Communist Party of Australia has promised. 
There were reports recently that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  had told the Government that Australia had only one week's supply of fuel, including defence stocks. This is a scandalous and dangerous situation. I have heard of other estimates which put our distillate reserves at as little as 2 days' supply. This is an intolerable situation. Of course, for many people, there is no fuel at all. It is not a question of a week's supply or 2 days' supply for them- they simply have not been able to get fuel at all. This fuel shortage, the industrial action that has caused it, and other similar industrial actions, are major factors in a very serious amount of unrest that is growing throughout country areas of Australia. 
In my own electorate of Richmond, for example, service stations in Lismore and Ballina have recently been closed for long periods. The ordinary activities and commercial life of the community have been disrupted. The sugar cane harvest has been threatened. Fishing fleets have been tied up in the ports. Sawmills have stopped. Transport services have been halted. Mail services have been disrupted because train services have been cut. Not only have local people been immobilised by fuel shortages, but so too have tourists, many of whom were stranded for days on the far north coast of New South Wales simply because there was no petrol. 
In the electorate of Gwydir, for example, the wheat harvest has been threatened, and the preparation of the cotton crop- which must be planted by the first week in October at the latest -is being hindered very seriously. 
Yes. The cotton industry could be wiped out if it cannot get fuel urgently. There has been concern for weeks in the sugar areas of Queensland about the supply of fuel for the sugar cane harvest. There is only a week's supply of fuel in some cases and down to a day in others. 
The Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  apparently prevailed on the Government to release some fuel from our defence stocks for some areas, but the problem remains. But what is he doing to get at the root of the problem- the disruptive tactics of some trade unions? A tanker arrived in Mackay on Sunday with sufficient fuel for the district for about 3 weeks at the most, and it will be 3 weeks or a month before the next tanker load arrives. 
The potato and onion crops in the Lockyer area are in trouble, school buses in many regions have been unable to run- and so the story of inconvenience and disruption continues. People living in Canberra and in many other places across Australia know only too well how hard it is to get heating oil or gas. In all this, despite repeated urgent appeals to the Government for help in cases where there has been a desperate need for petrol, distillate, oil or gas, there has been virtually no response whatsoever from the Government. There has been not even a slightest sign of interest or concern, let alone any effort by the Government to try to help. But this goes much further than disruption of agriculture and other industry and the disruption of the normal daily life of the community. 
We now have the shocking situation in which our defence forces are virtually immobilised. Newspapers are publishing articles with headlines such as: 'Please, no invasion today'. The attitude of this Government to the defence of Australia is well known, but the position becomes quite unacceptable when the small amount of defence capacity we do have is sabotaged by lack of fuel. At the moment the Navy is crippled, the Air Force is virtually grounded and the Army is hardly able to move at all because of the critical shortage of fuel. Apparently only one naval vessel- 'Vendetta'- is operational, with the rest of the Navy tied up in port. Even our coastal patrol boats are operating on a restricted basis. We have had Fl 1 Is and Mirages in Darwin that could not return to their home bases because there was no fuel there for them when they got there. Maritime patrolling by the Air Force is also restricted. The Army has had to cancel a big exercise because there is no fuel to move the troops. 
Why are we in this extraordinary situation,  Mr Speaker?  Why is a country which is so selfsufficient in petroleum- self-sufficient for the moment, let me emphasise- so hamstrung by a shortage of fuel? The answer is that continuing industrial action has rendered the whole production, storage and distribution system incapable of meeting our needs. The system normally can cope with the nation's fuel needs, but it just cannot cope with today's abnormal needs. It is not fair for the Government to try to blame the distribution system. The blame lies with the series of strikes, the union limitations and bans within the industry. 
I shall give a quick run-down on the industrial actions that have caused the present crisis. Back in February 5,000 oil industry clerks stopped fuel deliveries. In March the oil tanker drivers in Sydney went on strike. In April drivers, storemen and packers went on strike. There were rolling strikes at the Australian Oil Refinery plant in Sydney. The Ampol and Amoco refineries in Brisbane were closed because the Australian Workers Union put a ban on deliveries of fuel from those refineries. In July ships' engineers were on strike, and at one stage 53 oil tankers were tied up. 
-Fifty-three. Crude oil from Bass Strait was not being carried to the refineries. In August 8 unions were involved in industrial action in the oil industry in support of a $50 a week pay rise. The AWU in Victoria cut the flow of Bass Strait crude to a trickle. There was an overtime ban at the Banksmeadow terminal in Sydney, 3 Victorian oil refineries were closed, the Amoco refinery in Brisbane was closed and no crude was being delivered to the refineries. Then the Transport Workers Union called a national strike, and the fuel shortage was described as the worst since World War II. 
Late in August the Australian Metal Workers Union applied bans in refineries and the Union's secretary,  Mr Halfpenny,  said that this would eventually stop all fuel production. The AWU in Brisbane refused to load road tankers, except those bound for Ampol service stations. In the middle of August a tanker called the 'W.M. Leonard' was loaded with fuel in Brisbane for north Queensland, but the AWU refused to disconnect the oil hose and the tanker could not move. The same thing happened with a tanker that was due to sail for another load of Bass Strait crude. The AMWU put a black ban on some machinery at the Amoco refinery in Brisbane and stopped production. Late in August 3,000 oil tanker drivers and aircraft refuellers went on strike. On 25 August the Transport Workers Union applied an overtime ban on tanker drivers operating out of Brisbane. This became a major factor in the serious situation that developed in northern New South Wales. On 29 August another ban on supplies was imposed on the Amoco refinery in Brisbane. I have outlined briefly some of the industrial troubles that have plagued the oil industry this year and caused the crisis that now exists. 
What are we going to do about all this,  Mr Speaker?  What is the Government going to do? I do not want to put all the blame on the Government for the present situation, because I know how difficult it is to deal with the industrial action of some of these unions. But I wonder just how long we must accept this continuing disruption of the life of the community. The ' Government appears to be quite helpless in the face of this problem, and of course this is not surprising in a world in which the power of the trade unions exceeds the power of elected governments, particularly this Government that we have at the moment. But there are some steps which the Government can and should take. Today at question time I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to appoint immediately a committee of Ministers to consult with the oil industry, the unions and State authorities with a view to trying to build some safeguards in the storage and distribution system. He ignored the question. There was no satisfactory reply. 
It is beyond dispute that the basic cause of the present crisis is the industrial action of the oil industry unions. The government claims to have a special relationship with the unions. I hope the Government will make use of that relationship to try to persuade the unions of the urgent need to take greater account of the needs of the nation. I wonder whether the strikes would have occurred, and the various kinds of limitations and bans that have been imposed would have occurred, or occurred to such an extent, if the rank and file members of the unions had had a say. Very serious considerations ought to be given to the introduction of compulsory secret voting in union affairs. This should certainly be the case in the strategic industries, such as fuel, power and transport. The  President  of the Communist Party of Australia,  Mr Mundey,  says the call for secret ballots is part of the current popular game of union-bashing.  Mr Speaker,  I do not want to bash the unions. I want to see that unionists can express their views and not be bashed for doing so. I want to remove some of the power which  Mr Mundey  and others like him have to bash the Australian community. 
I think the Government ought to consider the possibility of establishing some kind of fuel stockpile. If the kind of disruption we are now suffering is to be the normal order of things- and there seems little prospect that it will not be- we have to find ways to protect the community. Sweden has fuel stockpiles owned and managed by the Government for emergency use. Of course there would be major problems in this concept, but at least we have to look at it. Our defence forces clearly ought to have bigger fuel reserves. I know that fuel cannot be stored indefinitely, that there must be some turnover. This means that there would need to be co-ordination of arrangements between defence forces and other users of fuel. The storage system would need to be properly integrated with the total needs of the nation. 
A further suggestion I make is that the Government ask the current Royal Commission on Petroleum to examine and report on the causes and effects of fuel shortages and to recommend measures which might reduce the incidence of such shortages. I think everyone will agree, and I am sure the Government will accept, that we just cannot have this continuing interference with the flow of fuel to the community and to our defence forces. No country can tolerate this sabotage of its activities. I hope the Government will take this matter very seriously and that it will regard the fuel industry as a vital strategic industry. It might even be necessary, because of this industry's importance, for it to be recognised in special legislation that will protect the community in times of emergency such as exists at the moment. 
We cannot afford to run away from the problem. This is a serious problem affecting every section of the community. The nation is at the mercy of a few militant unions largely being led by communists who have this nation almost throttled because of their control of these strategic industries. I desperately plead for the Government to take some immediate action to relieve the hardship and disruption which has been caused to so many people across the nation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! 

I ask the Prime Minister What action has he or his Government taken in response to the announcement by the  President  of the Communist Party of Australia,  Mr Mundey,  that the Communist Party is planning a national strike next year? Is a close watch being made of the Party's activities? 
-My question, which is directed to the Deputy Prime Minister, is related to his responsibilities for industrial adjustment. Is it a fact that the Government's actions on tariffs, perhaps despite the Government's good intentions, have resulted in a substantial number of people being thrown out of work? Is it the Government's intention to maintain its present attitudes or will it urgently review those attitudes, especially in relation to the textile industry? Will the Government take full account of the  worsening unemployment  situation when it makes its decision on the Industries Assistance Commission's report on the motor vehicle industry? Is it a fact that members of the Government have peddled lies about the impact of tariff reductions? 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) As the gas from the proposed national gas pipeline will be in a different form to gas in use in Canberra, how will the gas from the pipeline, when available, be distributed throughout the city. 
Is a reticulation system similar to that in use in other cities proposed. 
Would such a system be effected throughout the whole of Canberra or in the new areas only. 
Who will bear the costs of a reticulation system or costs of conversion to existing appliances using LPG. 
What is the relative heating value of appliances using LPG and natural gas respectively. 
-The Deputy Prime Minister will know that one of the conditions laid down by the unions for their discussions with the Government on wage restraint is that the Government will reintroduce import quotas and provide assistance to industry to restore full employment. I ask the Deputy Prime Minister whether the Government considers that the action which it has taken on the exchange ratefor which I commend the Minister, particularly after his statement to Parliament yesterdaymeets the conditions that the unions want. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy, is supplementary to that which was asked by the honourable member for Blaxland. In answer to that question the Minister gave the first notification of the Government's intention to nationalise the uranium resources of the Northern Territory. I ask the Minister: Will he present a White Paper or make a policy statement to the House on the development of uranium in Australia? I ask further: How long are companies, principally Australian owned, to be confused by the lack of any clear policy statement by the Government? Or are they to continue to suffer the surreptitious and piecemeal actions and statements by the Minister which are obviously part of a master plan to nationalise the industry in Australia? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, this Budget is built on a tragic ignorance of a fundamental and inescapable fact: No country, and no government, can spend without restraint on the one hand while, on the other hand, it sets about the systematic and deliberate sabotage of the nation's producers. No government can meet the great clamour from the people for better services, better education, better welfare services, better defence, better roads and all the rest of it, while it does so many things to damage the nation's productive capacity, to discourage people from investing their earnings and their savings in producing industries, and to persuade people that they are wrong, if not stupid, to seek to advance themselves and their families through hard work and thrift. Yet that is precisely what this Government is trying to do and that is precisely the tragic economic ignorance on which this Budget is based. 
On the other hand, I think there are very strong grounds for believing that the strategy this Budget displays may not be the result of economic ignorance but a deliberate strategy designed to further the Labor Party 's own basic objectives. It is by no means insignificant when the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  says, as he did in the Budget Speech: 
The relatively subdued conditions in prospect for the private sector provide the first real opportunity we have had to transfer resources to the public sector. 
What the Treasurer is saying is that the private sector has been put in such a serious situation by this Government and has been so depressed, that the Government now can more easily pursue its objective of socialisation. 
The biggest indictment of this Budget has now come from the Government itself, and that indictment comes in the form of the decision to devalue and free the Australian dollar. A decision to devalue and free a nation's currency is a decision of such great significance that one would expect it to be made only after considerable consideration and careful thought over a period of time. The Budget should have taken account of a currency decision which the Government now says it knew was imminent when the Budget was being prepared. The fact that the Budget did not do so suggests very strongly that the Government did not know a currency change was imminent and that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was forced into the currency change as a result of the mess he got himself into by his incredibly inept performance at the beginning of this week. 
The currency decision was the right decision. The pity is that it has been so long delayed, that it was made in such panic, and that it was not preceded by a more responsible budget. What the Government must understand now is that it must stand ready to take strong action to counter the additional inflation which the currency change will generate. This action will be all the harder because of the irresponsible Budget, and the Budget's failure to anticipate the currency change. 
But,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  not only is this Budget built on economic ignorance, not only does it form part of the process of furthering Labor's political philosphy and not only does it expose, in conjunction with this week's events, the Government's irrationality and mismanagement; it is also a Budget of outright deception. Nowhere is this charge substantiated more clearly than in the taxation cut swindle-that is the only name I can give it. 
The big deal of this Budget-the big bait for the wage earner-was to be a cut in his tax. But as the Melbourne 'Age' has correctly pointed out, these tax cuts are based on a lie. Because of inflation the wage earner will pay more tax next year than he paid last year, in spite of the so-called tax cuts. This is nothing less than an outright betrayal of the people Labor claims it represents. 
The wage earner, to whom this Government now appeals to exercise restraint, is the victim of a Labor Party confidence trick. The extent of the deception becomes very clear when you learn that, despite the so-called tax cuts, the Government will collect an extra 46 per cent in income tax this year. This fact exposes one of the worst features of this Budget, and the most serious admission by the Government, namely its failure to act against inflation and its dependence on inflation to finance the Budget's spending program. Not only does this Government not attack inflation, and the Treasurer says quite openly that other things are more important, but also it must have inflation. It cannot live without it. If we look at various elements of the Budget we see a definite pattern emerging. That pattern is one of discouragement of private initiative and enterprise, discouragement of individual effort and drive and discouragement of personal saving and thrift. None of these things, of course, has any worthwhile place in a socialist economy. It is only to be expected that a socialist governmentand this is one- will follow a course of discouragement of these things. 
This Budget ignores- because the Government cannot understand- the fact that productive enterprise must be the basis of the rises in living standards we all seek and that there is simply no other source of these improvements. It ignores the fact- again because the Labor Party cannot understand it- that the lifeblood of productive enterprise is investment. Governmentseven socialist ones- have no source of income apart from the taxation they can levy on the fruits of productive enterprise, whether those fruits be the earnings of the enterprise or the earnings of people who work in the enterprise. Yet this Government, in this Budget, goes out of its way to discourage productive investment. Investment in the mining industry is discouraged, investment in rural industry is discouraged, harder work is discouraged and saving is discouraged. 
What the new capital gains and unearned income taxes mean is this: A man or woman will work for a living and they will pay very heavy taxation on their earnings. Out of those hardearned, heavily-taxed earnings they will put a little aside for the future. They will invest it, but if they earn some income from those savings that they have invested, this Government will tax them a second time on that income. If they have a little left over after they have paid the extra tax and if they invest that little amount, they will pay tax again and again on any income they get from that investment. This is a most savage tax. It is a despicable tax. It is a tax brought in by Labor in the mistaken belief that it will make the unions believe that Labor is prepared to sock the rich. The trouble is that the vast majority of those people who will pay this new tax will not be rich at all. They will be the great mass of small investors among the working people who are simply trying to put a little aside for a rainy day. It is to the greatest discredit and shame of this Government that it has decided on this form of tax. 
For rural industries, and the people in them, the capital gains tax will be little short of disastrous in many cases and it will hurt a lot of other people as well.  Mr John  White, Chief Executive Officer of the New South Wales Graziers' Association, has forecast that the capital gains tax appears to mean the end of the family farm in a couple of generations. How ironic that a party which so viciously peddled lies about the attitude of other parties to the family farm has now taken a step which is predicted to lead to the destruction of the family farm as the basic unit of Australian agriculture. Again there is an attack on the incentive to invest in and to improve properties, and to make them more productive. Much of the development of Australia's rural areas, farmlands, tourist enterprises and so on has happened because people were able to use their initiative and to seek rewards. This new tax will stifle, and in many cases destroy, that kind of initiative which has been so vital to the growth and wellbeing of cities and towns all over Australia. 
If there is a need to raise extra revenue- I do not concede that there is if the economy is properly managed- it should be done through adjustment of the normal direct and indirect taxes. This Budget ignores the most pressing problems of the day which are unemployment and inflation. A serious attempt to control inflation would have required severe restraints in Government expenditure in association with large taxation reductions. That has not happened. I know that it is easy enough to say these things and a lot harder to do them. It is also easy enough and fair enough for people to say to the Opposition: 'Well, where would you cut back on Government spending?' 
I think it has to be understood that the question of restraint is not just a matter for governments alone. Governments spend money because they are pressured by people to spend it. But we have to realise that no government can go on spending money like water if the nation 's production and productivity are below par- and that is what Australia's production and productivity are at present. We all know that there are great national tasks to be performed and that things need to be done. But every Australian has to try to understand that we just cannot do everything at once and every Australian has to accept that the demands on governments must be reduced. It is not the responsibility of governments alone; it is everyone's responsibility- and there is no way of unloading that responsibility. But governments- especially this spendthrift Government- must also realise that there are responsibilities even higher than giving in to the growing clamour for more of everything and for everything to be done at once. Governments must be prepared to risk unpopularity for the sake of acting with restraint and responsibility where the interests of the nation's people demand such a course of action. 
It is in vain that non-metropolitan Australia looks for justice in this Budget. If the recent Green Paper is not to be merely discarded as academic waffle, its first results should have been seen in this Budget. Where is the Government's response to the tariff compensation case? Where are the promised soil and water conservation concessions? Where are the policies to stabilise incomes? Where are the policies to increase the availability and to liberalise the terms of rural credit? Where are the policies to assist the embattled decentralised industries? Where are the long term measures to provide an expanding employment base in country areas? Where is the Australian Labor Party's rural rump? What has happened to it? Are its members lions or mice? Their feeble, ineffective voices are stilled. 
For 12 months the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has ducked and weaved his way through questions from the Country Party on rural unemployment relief. He criticised the old unemployment relief scheme. He held meeting after meeting with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  He talked of the success of Labor's full employment policy. But after 12 months of gestation what has 'Clay-pits Clyde' come up with? Virtually, a renewal of the Liberal-Country Party scheme- a scheme that never should have been abolished. While temporary rural employment relief is urgently needed in many areas, I would have liked to see in the Budget some steps towards providing an expanding employment base in rural areas. The latest proposal to provide prop-up assistance to country towns and industries is no substitute for long term measures to encourage industry and manpower to become decentralised. It is rural industry that is the missing partner in the much talked about social contract. 
I do not call for or expect indexation of beef, wheat, mutton prices and so on. I do not expect quarterly adjustments in the incomes of rural producers. But I do expect and Australian farmers expect some recognition of their problem. Is it any wonder that the farmers are angry? Is it any wonder that members of the Opposition attend protest meeting after protest meeting and appeal to rural producers not to take extreme action, despite their anger and frustration? Why has the Government acted in this way towards rural industry? The stated reasons range from the pious 'more efficient allocation of resources' to 'they have never had it so good'. If concessions are removed because farm incomes are high in one year, then the converse must follow- their justifiable return- when incomes fall. No wonder producers around Australia talk not of a fairer more equitable Australia, but of a divided Australia and a government that could not care less what happens to them. 
Who speaks for the mining industry in the Labor Party? Certainly not the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  He speaks from outdated attitudes and nurtured prejudices. He is the silent man of Cabinet. Yet, he has allowed new taxation blows aimed at the mining industry that will greatly affect the profitability, and indeed feasibility, of many new projects. Under his administration, our exploration languishes, our uranium industry stagnates and Australians are the losers. There is a malaise in this country. There is something chilling about the growth of inflation and unemployment. There is growing apprehension amongst the people and uncertainty in industry. The nation is moving fearfully but surely into the dark valley of stagflation. We do not know yet how long the period will be or how efficient and prompt any subsequent remedial actions can be. What we do know is that this Budget talks about socialist dogma when it should be talking about inflation and unemployment. We know, as the Labor Party knows, that the Australian people have had enough of this Government and the mess that it has got the economy into. Socialist dogmas of soaking the rich, penalising the thrifty and squeezing the profit margins of business are completely at odds with what is required. We do not need a new social order. We need a new spirit of initiative and self-sacrifice in the community, inspired and stimulated by decisive, sensible national leadership. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
Have any moves been made by (a) U.S.S.R. authorities, (b) the Australian Meat Board, or (c) the Australian Meat export trade involving the possible sale and delivery of Australian meat to the U.S.S.R. during 1974 or subsequent years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
How many meat inspectors were employed by the Department of Agriculture on (a) 1 January 1972; (b) 30 June 1972; (c) 31 December 1972; (d) 30 June 1973; (e) 31 December 1973;  (0  30 June 1974 and (g) 3 1 July 1974. 
How many meat inspectors have now been transferred to other duties or placed on leave in view of the slowdown in abattoir activity. 
What was the total overtime payment to meat inspectors employed by the Department of Agriculture during (a) 1972-73 and (b) 1973-74. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture upon notice: 
1 ) How many abattoirs are currently certified by United States authorities as unsuitable for killing of meat for export to the United States of America. 
What was the comparable total at the same time in (a) 1972 and (b) 1973. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the annual volume of exports for slaughter purposes of (a) live sheep and (b) live cattle to overseas markets by major destination during each of the calendar years 1967 to 1973. 
What have been the monthly exports on an equivalent basis during 1974 and the corresponding period of 1973. 
What was the aggregate equivalent, in terms of carcase weight, of the exports of live animals for slaughter purposes for each of the years referred to in Part ( 1 ). 
The Country Party joins with the Acting Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition in expressing the deepest sympathy to Lady Harrison and her family. The Country Party long recognises  Sir Eric  as one of its great colleagues, both in Government and in Opposition. He was a man who had steadfast principles. He believed in conservative politics. He made a tremendous impact in pursuing his political beliefs. He had left Parliament by the time I arrived, but he was a very close friend of my late father and in his presence I once had the opportunity of meeting  Sir Eric.  I recall him as being a towering political figure. He was quite renowned throughout Australia as a great debater. He made his greatest political contribution, I would think, during his period in Opposition from 1941 to 1949, when he and a small handful of other men did their job very faithfully and with great dedication as members of the Opposition. He was a great Australian in serving his country in war, as a Minister, as a parliamentarian and as an ambassador. He was a robust debater. He loved Parliament.  His  contribution will be long remembered. He set a fine example to all of us as parliamentarians and we are pleased the he is remembered with the esteem that has been expressed today. 
I ask the Acting Prime Minister: In view of the undertaking by the Prime Minister before the United Nations General Assembly this morning that Australia will play its pan in helping to tackle the world's food problems and will assist in the establishment of an international system of grain reserves, and in view of the statement by the Acting Prime Minister relating to the Government's mistake in removing the superphosphate bounty, will the Acting Prime Minister impress upon his colleagues the importance of providing appropriate incentives and encouragement to Australian farmers to produce food and to increase their productivity, and the dangers that opposite action will have? Finally, will the Acting Prime Minister at least support a general referral to the Industries Assistance Commission of the application to have the superphosphate bounty reinstated in preference to the narrow selective application which is before the Commission at the moment? 
The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  who preceded me constantly remarked that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  had not spoken to the Bill. That was an unworthy comment because the Leader of the Opposition spoke about the problems of Tasmania, a matter to which this Bill relates since it is a States Grants Bill. The purpose of this Bill is to authorise additional financial assistance to Tasmania. The Opposition supports this measure. In fact we recognise that Tasmania desperately needs financial assistance because it is in a serious economic situation. The Leader of the Opposition kept referring to the debilitated industries of Tasmania. I think anaemia has set in and if care is not exercised the whole State will collapse because of the attitude and policies of the present Labor Government directed at the basic productive industries of Tasmania. The Government's policies are doing grievous harm to the rural, manufacturing and mining industries of Tasmania. It is only natural that the wealth of that State will decline if there is no incentive or encouragement for people to invest in the development of those industries. This is why we require almost emergency measures such as this Bill to try to alleviate the tremendous demands that are being placed upon the Tasmanian State Government. 
In 1973-74 base grants worth $79m were paid to the Tasmanian Government with total financial assistance being worth $91m. In addition, special grants totalling $9m were paid on the recommendation of the Grants Commission. In 1973-74, Tasmania, Queensland and South Australia were the 3 States which received special grants from the Grants Commission. At the June 1974 Premiers' Conference, the Premier of Tasmania discussed with the Australian Government the possibility of his State withdrawing from these special grants arrangements for reasons best known to himself. Following these discussions it was agreed that, to enable such a withdrawal, an amount of $ 15m would be added to the financial assistance grants payable to the State this financial year. As a result, financial assistance grants for Tasmania in 1974-75 will be worth $130m compared with $91m last year. This is a substantial increase of over 30 per cent, but on the other hand this additional $ 15m is to offset special grants otherwise payable. 
Over a long period, the Tasmanian economy has steadily lagged behind the growth of the mainland economy. The Tasmanian percentage of the Australian population, employment and personal income has been steadily declining. The obvious conclusion is that the rate of growth of population, employment and personal income is lower in Tasmania than in Australia as a whole. During the 1960s personal income in Tasmania as a percentage of the Australian total declined from 3 per cent to 2.7 per cent. Over the same period while real income per head of population in Tasmania rose from $927 to $1751 by 1970-71, income per head was still 13 per cent below the Australian average. 
Tasmania has probably 4 major disadvantages, which cause this lower standard of living. The first is Bass Strait, which is an expensive stretch of water with its associated problems of isolation, high freight costs, strikes and transport generally. The second is the limited natural resources of that State. The third is the small population, creating a limited domestic market for goods that are produced in that State. Lastly, there seems to be the lack of the bright lights and sophistication of the larger cities which seems to be important for some people, particularly young people, if they are to be stopped from migrating to the mainland. 
On the other hand Tasmania has abundant fresh water. With less than one per cent of Australia's area Tasmania enjoys 14 per cent of Australia's water resources. In addition, Tasmania enjoys high quality timber resources, good natural harvests and a stable work force. In a nutshell then, the problem of Tasmania's lagged development relates very much to the problems of Bass Strait transportation and limited employment opportunities. The potential exists for accelerated growth in the State. The future of Tasmania as a rapidly expanding and prosperous State of the Commonwealth rests, I believe, very much with the Federal Government. 
The first major problem that calls for some action is the grave transportation problem which has in many respects crippled the development of the State. The lack of discipline in and the militancy of the Seamen's Union and the Waterside Workers Federation have caused tremendous disruption, brought about an unreliability in transport and increased costs which have had a crippling effect on every person in Tasmania. I was gratified to note, however, that the Acting Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  recently announced in Tasmania that the Australian National Line would now provide special rates to Tasmania which would now receive the benefit of a subsidy worth about $170,000 a month to Tasmanian exporters. However, this does not solve the pressing problem of the freight burden on imports to Tasmania. It is to be hoped that the Nimmo report on transport will make a contribution to this problem. There is an urgent need in Tasmania not only for a solution to the freight problem, which has been worsened by the recent ANL freight increases, but for some positive Commonwealth action to expand the employment base in that State. 
Tasmania has traditionally experienced a large migration, particularly of its young people, to the mainland. It is this exodus of young people that is draining the lifeblood of the Tasmanian economy. It is in this area that I believe the Department of Urban and Regional Development has a major role to play. The Federal Government is making a contribution to AlburyWodonga on the New South Wales- Victorian border. This is to be the first major growth centre initiative. In addition, the Australian Government has agreed to assist South Australia in the development of Murray Bridge, while negotiations are proceeding on growth centres for Bathurst and Gosford. The prospects of Townsville are also under consideration, while Geelong will also be established as a growth complex. 
However, I believe the Australian Government should be far more active in establishing the prospects for the accelerated development of Tasmanian regions. Launceston in Tasmania, for example, is the slowest growing city of any Australian non-mining centre with a population of over 20,000 people. I think that that is an indictment of the Government and the Federal representatives of that State, all of whom are Labor Party members, that they can allow Tasmania to stagnate to the extent to which it has. There just does not seem to be any positive move or impetus from Federal Tasmanian members to get the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  to have prepared any positive plans for the development of that State. There is no growth centre complex or any regional development plan suggested for Tasmania. At this stage, it is nothing more than words, words, words. 
I mentioned earlier that Tasmania has lagged behind national development. There are great disparities in Tasmania itself. Between the last 2 censuses, the northern region of Tasmania, extending as far west as Elizabethtown and as far south as Woodbury recorded virtually no population growth at all. Imagine being a member representing those areas! The annual rate of population growth in that depressed area averaged only a little more than 0.1 per cent. This area includes the city of Launceston which I mentioned earlier. I would like to see the Commonwealth Government give a high priority to studying the possibility not only of making this area a growth area but other regions in Tasmania growth areas also. 
The Tasmanian economy is relatively dependent upon rural production. It follows that much of its economy depends upon the prosperity of its rural industry. The value of rural production in Tasmania is a little less than one-third of the value of its manufacturing production, which illustrates in relation to other States its dependence to a significant extent upon rural industry. These rural industries are in many cases going through an extremely difficult time, largely as a result of the policies of this Government. The Tasmanian apple industry is beset by deeprooted marketing problems and is contracting in size as these bear more heavily on the growers. The beef cattle industry is experiencing a world market recession while the wool industry has been propped up with some Government support, but at a lower level than it should have been. These are the 3 major industries, along with the dairying industry, on which Tasmania's economy still depends to a very large degree. Of course all incentives such as the taxation consessions, the subsidies on fertilisers and the dairying industry subsidy have been or are being withdrawn. Is it little wonder that Tasmania is starting to crumble because of the lack of support and encouragement that it is getting from this Government. 
It is in the area of manufacturing industries too that I think we can all feel sorry for Tasmania. The textile and clothing industries are rapidly dismissing people in Tasmania. Well over 900 people were dismissed in the Launceston region last month and the number is being increased. Tasmania has one of the worst employment situations of any State. The most recent figures that I was able to obtain from the Bureau of Statistics show that, on the old definition, in the 3 months from May to August the percentage of people unemployed in Tasmania rose from 2.2 1 per cent to 3.4 per cent with the figure in some of the depressed regions being as high as S per cent. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  now talks about a scheme to help with unemployment relief. We have seen, him dodge the questions - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! I think that the provisions of the Bill are fairly wide ranging. Some latitude is allowed when States grants legislation is debated. I would suggest that the Leader of the Country Party make some reference to the Bill occasionally. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I was moving on to the question of unemployment on which this legislation has a very big bearing. One of the considerations which would have been in the Government's mind in giving such a generous grant to Tasmania is the rapidly growing unemployment in that State. What I said was that the Minister for Labor and Immigration has been talking about unemployment relief. But he has been sidestepping questions from his own members from Tasmania about any form of relief to help unemployment in these depressed areas where poverty conditions are now starting to prevail for farmers and unemployed people. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
-This States Grants Bill provides for finance to be given to Tasmania to supplement the State Government's finances. Before the sitting of the House was suspended for dinner I pointed out that the grant that is being given this year represents a considerable increase in an effort to help the State Government with its increasing financial difficulties. Probably no State in Australia is suffering more than Tasmania at the moment because of the declining economic circumstances. 
-The honourable member for Franklin pipes up- it is almost a reawakeningand shows an interest in Tasmania. What has been quite obvious in the lifetime of the present Labor Administration is that Tasmaniaa State which is highly dependent upon rural industries, particularly the apple industryhas been absolutely deserted by its Labor members. At present Tasmania is represented by 5 Labor members. Every House of Representatives seat in Tasmania is held by a Labor member. This is an experience that will be lived only once. As soon as Tasmanians have a chance of changing and rectifying the situation they will do so. Tasmanians have seen that the so-called rural rump which comes from Tasmania has no influence and no power whatsoever within Caucus to see that Tasmanian farmers, Tasmanian manufacturers and the Tasmanian mining industry get a fair go. It is obvious that the present Labor Administration is hog-tied to the powerful trade unions which exist on the mainland. Tasmania is left out on a limb without any great trade union influence. It is left abandoned in limbo, with the State suffering the worst recession that we have seen for a long time. It is progressively getting very much worse. 
A deplorable state of unemployment is developing in Tasmania. Tasmania now has the highest level of unemployment in Australia. But it is the rate at which people are being discharged and dismissed that is causing the Opposition a great deal of concern for Tasmania. We feel that we have a duty to speak up on behalf of Tasmania because of what is not being done by its representatives. It is incredible that the Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt,  a Tasmanian, should have so let down the rural industries of that State. No State is more dependent upon rural industries than is Tasmania. Yet we find that every one of them - 
Is the Acting Prime Minister aware of reports from New York this morning of a statement by the Prime Minister to the effect that the Iranian Government may take shares in the Australian Industry Development Corporation and in the Petroleum and Minerals Authority so that it can obtain supplies of uranium, iron ore and other minerals from Australia? I ask the Minister whether he can give the House any further information on this matter, particularly in relation to investment in the Petroleum and Minerals Authority by a foreign government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the (a) value (b) volume, and (c) composition by type of meat of purchases by U.S.S.R. authorities of Australian meat in each of the years 1 968 to 1 972. 
Can the Minister say what purchases of meat have been concluded by U.S.S.R. authorities in overseas markets during 1974 to date, and what prices have been applicable to those purchases. 
The time has long since passed when this Parliament, and the people of Australia, should have been told what the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has in mind for the future development of Australia's mineral and energy resources. In fact, the time has long since passed when the Minister should have told the Government what he has in mind. The Government- the Cabinetand the Caucus have no more idea of what the Minister intends to dc than anybody else has. This week we had the incredible situation in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who I notice now describes himself as the head of Australia's social democrat government- whatever that might be- tell the world what Australia will do with its resources, while back home in Australia there is almost total ignorance of our own resources policy. 
The Prime Minister tells the world how responsible Australia is and how we are going to make our resources available to the people who need them at fair prices. But back home the Minister for Minerals and Energy acts in precisely the opposite way. He forbids exports of natural gas. He forces the Japanese to pay higher prices for iron ore to offset the effects of revaluation, only to have the Government devalue shortly afterwards. He blocks all new exports of uranium, while he dribbles out bits and pieces of policy ideas in this House in response to questions from his own back benchers- policy proposals that have not even been before his own Party or his own Cabinet. 
-The Minister said that he is still preparing proposals to go to Cabinet and his Party. So the honourable member does not know. It is a matter for real concern that we have the Prime Minister making pronouncements before the United Nations when those pronouncements are completely lacking in firm policy support at home. The Minister must take the earliest opportunity to present to Parliament a comprehensive and coherent minerals and energy policy statement. 
Uranium is one of the world's key strategic resources. Australia is relatively well endowed with uranium ore. There are very large resources in this country. There was a high level of exploration activity during 1972 and major discoveries in the past 3 years have meant that our claimed reserves are in excess of 300,000 tons, of which about 220,000 tons are located in 4 areas in the Northern Territory. These reserves make Australia one of the world's major potential sources of uranium ore. The Minister has placed a ban on new exports of processed ore- that is, yellowcake. Existing contracts are to be met from the Mary Kathleen deposits in Queensland. This is a relatively small low grade deposit owned by Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd and the existing mill there is to be upgraded with Government financial support through the Atomic Energy Commission. In addition, the Minister has proposed that the existing stockpile held by the Atomic Energy Commission be used to meet some of the existing contracts. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting for lunch I was mentioning that the cream of the uranium ore is in the Northern Territory. The original plan for the companies there was to develop their deposits with separate mills and to process the ore into yellowcake for export. The largest single mill being proposed was to have a capacity of 3,000 tons with an eventual aggregate production possibly of around 8,000 to 9,000 tons. However, a total freeze has decended upon the industry. If the previous Government's policies had been in operation we would be seeing at least one of these mills almost coming into production now, adding considerably to the economy. Meanwhile, the world energy crisis has forced up energy prices. Consequently the theoretical market value for our uranium has escalated. The Minister, of course, claims that this is a vindication of his policy of keeping the ore in the ground. Like the hoarder, he gloats and exults over the value of his buried treasure. What a negative policy. But it is more accurate to say that Australia is simply being denied the fruits of the world price boom for uranium ore. 
The Minister's intentions for uranium have never been properly spelt out. As far as I can gather, the following seems to be the situation: The Government, through the Atomic Energy Commission, is to establish a mill in the Northern Territory to process uranium ore from all sources into yellowcake. The yellowcake is eventually to be used by a 100 per cent Australianowned nuclear enrichment plant. From then on, only enriched uranium will be exported by Australia. Until then, existing contracts will be met by Mary Kathleen and the Atomic Energy Commission. This leaves open a large number of very important areas of uncertainty. Uranium developers do not know whether the Minister plans to acquire their ore compulsorily. They do not know what return they will be allowed on their capital investment. They do not know to what extent they will be allowed to realise the considerable returns to be made from uranium processing and export. The developers of the large Yeelirrie uranium deposits in Western Australia and at Lake Frome in South Australia do not know what their future is. They do not know where the proposed mill in the Northern Territory is to be located, what its capital cost will be, or what the ore transportation costs will be. We do not know the relative efficiency of such a plant, which would have to handle widely ranging grades of ores, compared with mills at the individual sites. If the mill is in operation in 2 years time- and I question thatthere is no indication as to what is to happen to the yellowcake between then and the time the enrichment plant gets into operation. 
To debate the Minister's uranium policy is to spar at shadows. A nuclear enrichment plant would cost a tremendous amount of money- at least $2,000m and possibly $3,000m. Since the Minister's stated objective is 100 per cent Australian ownership, presumably this money is to be obtained from the Australian taxpayer, the Australian capital market or by overseas borrowings. Iran is now being asked to participate in the Petroleum and Minerals Authority to help nationalise the industry. In other words, foreign capital is asked to take over private enterprise in Australia. At the moment, the market for the products of this plant look good. 
Enrichment has never been commercially tested. All plants to date have been government controlled and built mainly for military purposes. There is a great deal of uncertainty about the future market. Nobody knows what the cost of enrichment or the price of enriched products will be in the 1980s. Much depends upon the movement in energy prices. Enrichment technology is developing rapidly* under the impetus of rising fuel prices. At this stage the choice is between the well-proven diffusion and the fairly complex centrifugel method. All major nuclear countries except Japan have assured supplies of uranium until 1985. It would therefore seem at this stage that the major potential market for enriched uranium will be Japan. Unfortunately, Japan is not willing to meet Australia's conditions for participation in an enrichment plant. 
Since this question of financing and market outlet is the key one, the Minister should be telling the Parliament what assured partners are willing to provide technology, capital and markets for an Australian enrichment plant. If an enrichment plant is not a goer the future for our industry obviously lies in the export of yellowcake. An enrichment plant would be a huge venture. If the diffusion process is used, the energy input would be absolutely enormous. Vast quantities of water would be required. The potential market would be nuclear reactors. A lot of international work is being done on fast breeder reactors, which would greatly reduce the demand for enriched uranium in relation to the relatively inefficient light-water reactors in use today. 
As a reasonable guess then, our large deposits of uranium will probably have a peak market period for the next 15 to 20 years, when advances in nuclear development or other energy sources, such as solar energy, or even the conversion of sea water, are unknown factors. All we do know is that we have a buoyant market for yellowcake at present and the possibility exists -it is only a possibility- of a sound market for an enrichment plant. If an enrichment plant were available in, say, 8 years time, it would have about 20 years of life. Over that period it would consume some 80,000 to 360,000 short tons of uranium ore, depending on its size. Our known reserves are about 300,000 tons. What this means is that until an enrichment proposal is fully resolved we should be careful in controlling exports. But in the meantime companies have every right to an adequate return on their investment. 
A sensible means of ensuring this would be to allow a limited flow of exports of yellowcake to proceed until the enrichment proposal is resolved. Since the resolution of the enrichment proposal is so important, we should not be too rigid in insisting on 100 per cent Australian ownership. The important thing is to get moving, to make sure that the commercial prospects are sound, to line up assured partners, and to exercise adequate control. Above all, we need now a publicly announced uranium policy so that investors and customers know where we are going. Since uranium is a strategic reserve, there are grave foreign affairs implications in blockading exports of such a vital commodity. From the domestic viewpoint, we should be integrating uranium policy with a national energy policy. What are to be our requirements for uranium? How much of the products of an enrichment plant will we need ourselves? The Minister talked earlier of meeting an increased percentage of our energy demands from natural gas. What about his proposals for converting natural gas into hydrocarbon liquids? What is the future of solar energy in Australia? Is there any future for generation of power by tidal forces in northwest Australia? What are the proposals about coal conversions about which the Minister has talked so much? 
Instead of a coherent policy, we have a hotchpotch of half hinted at proposals. Off the Northwest Shelf the Woodside-Burmah consortium waits and waits for a decision on its natural gas. The Minister has compulsorily acquired it but has not said what he wants to do with it. Is it to be converted to petrol? Is it to join the national pipeline grid? Is it to be exported? Is it to be converted into petrochemicals or to be used in the input in steel manufacture? What price is it to be acquired at and what would be the annual volume required? We do not know. What is to be the position in regard to coal conversion? What process would be used? Would the plant be located in the Hunter Valley, beside the Queensland coal fields or would it use the Victorian brown coal reserves. What would be the size of the plant? What volume of production would it achieve and at what cost? What proposals has the Minister for financing research into solar energy? This is one area in which Australia should have an advantage compared to many other countries. What program has the Minister for expanding our declining oil search? What is his program on farm-ins? Is he dogmatic in his statement that there be no increase in the price of oil, even for new deposits? 
The point I am making is that you cannot have a uranium policy in complete isolation not only from a foreign affairs approach, but also from a national energy policy point of view. Until we do have such a comprehensive approach the minerals and energy industry languishes. The resources lie in the ground. Overseas customers wait. This Parliament and this nation demand that there be some positive and prompt answers from the Minister. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has made statements to the United Nations that Australia wants to make its contribution to mankind by providing energy and food resources to the World. Yet we have no firm policy being given by this Government. It is a ludicrous situation when the Prime Minister speaks to the world and the Minister for Minerals and Energy refuses to reveal to this Parliament, his own Caucus or his own Resources Committee, what his attitude is to uranium or any other energy resources in this country. 
The honourable member for Blaxland says: 'That is not true'. Every member of this Parliament knows that there is discontent and division within the Labor ranks because of the blundering way in which the Minister has been acting. It is time we had a positive answer. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of statements made by the Minister for Minerals and Energy yesterday in an enterview on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program 'AM' in which the Minister said that it would be for the Public Service Board to take any necessary disciplinary action against the head of the Department of Foreign Affairs,  Mr Renouf,  over actions for which the Minister received an apology from  Mr Renouf  last Friday? Does the Prime Minister agree that an apology was appropriate? Does he intend as ministerial head of the Public Service to follow up the Minister's reference to disciplinary action? Since the Prime Minister has said that he did not authorise the briefing and knew nothing of it, does it reflect the Prime Minister's views? 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. In view of the recent statement by the Minister for Northern Development that any action which led to a reduction in the fertility of soil was irresponsible and the statement by the Deputy Prime Minister that the Government had acted wrongly in removing the superphosphate bounty and his subsequent reported comment that the Government might revise its decision, and in view of the the Prime Minister's statement at the United Nations that Australia will respond to the world situation, I ask the Prime Minister whether the Government will reconsider its decision on the bounty. 

 - Mr Speaker, it is an indication of the worsening mess into which minerals and energy matters have fallen that the Opposition has risen twice in the last few weeks to bring to the attention of this Parliament the question of a minerals and energy policy of the Government. But the remarkable series of events last week shows one thing quite clearly, that Australia simply does not have any coherent policy on minerals and energy. Last week's events would not have happened if there were such policies. If the Government knew what its policies were no one would have had anything to say that might have suggested a difference of opinion within the Government. As it is, the very strong impression has been given and remains that there is a serious difference of opinion between the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  The Opposition wants the Prime Minister himself to speak in this debate. He has been silent on this matter for far too long. He should come now into this debate and tell us where he stands. He should tell us whether the briefing given by  Mr Renouf  to journalists travelling with the Prime Minister last week was given with his general support and whether  Mr Renouf  was really reflecting the Prime Minister's views or comments that the Prime Minister was making to leaders he was speaking with in North America. It is all very well for the Minister for Minerals and Energy to humiliate  Mr Renouf  publicly and claim that  Mr Renouf  told him this or told him that. We want to hear the full story from the Prime Minister himself so that Parliament and the people will know whether  Mr Renouf  's comments to the journalists really reflected the opinions and the thinking of the Prime Minister. If the Prime Minister was not game enough to talk to the journalists himself to try to put the skids under the Minister for Minerals and Energy, but used a very senior and distinguished public servant to do so, he should now be game enough to come into this Parliament and tell us the facts. 
We do not expect the Prime Minister to come in and tell us what the Government's policies are because we know it has not got any. We are told the Minister has some ideas, but nobody has really been told what they are. In January this year the Prime Minister asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy to prepare a White Paper on minerals and energy policies. He gave the Minister a deadline- a deadline until March this year. Where is the White Paper? The Prime Minister ought to tell us. Does the Prime Minister reel back in fear of this man? Where is this selfacclaimed great Prime Minister who is supposed to be giving leadership to the country? We read that the Minister got very excited the week before last when he heard that the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development was going to bring out a report criticising Australia for a lack of policies. He rushed off a 15-page letter to the OECD demanding that it be included in its report. The letter is said to describe our minerals and energy policies. If it does, why has he not told this Parliament? Why have we got to wait in limbo hoping that we might get at least some gem of knowledge from him each time we bring up an urgency motion? Are we expected to read a document that is published in Paris to find out what Australia's minerals and energy policies are? This is a scandalous situation and the Prime Minister has a responsibility to do something about it. Now we even have the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  telling us from Peking that Australia's resources policies must be clarified. 
Let us look at some of the consequences of the Minister's failure to define his policies. Two weeks ago I described the serious effects of this Government's non-policies as far as uranium is concerned. Today we ought to look at oil exploration. On 30 September the Minister issued a statement saying that the petroleum industry had continued to grow in 1973-74 in all phases of its operations. That is just not true. Where do we go if a Minister responsible to an important segment of the industry can make such blatant dishonest statements? In exploration, the very life-blood of the industry, there was a disastrous falloff last year and the situation is getting worse all the time because the industry is completely confused and disheartened by the Minister's attitudes. The Minister talks of Australia having 15 years' reserves of fuel. He has said it in this House and he keeps on saying it outside this House, but it is simply not true. The only way one could arrive at such figures would be to divide today's consumption rate with the total of all discoveries of oil and gas, assuming that the condensates within the gas are converted to liquids. This might be all right academically but in reality it is quite impossible to marshal all those reserves and say that they can be used in this way and within 15 years. 
The total amount of oil reserves discovered in Australia to date is 2.1 billion barrels, but half a billion barrels of these reserves- that is a quarter of them- have already been used up. The Minister bases his argument on a deliberately misleading basis when he states that we have 15 years reserves of fuel on the present rate of consumption. The truth is that our consumption rate is rising very fast, so his 15-year estimate is shot to pieces immediately. The Minister's own Department estimates that our consumption of petroleum products, which was 200 million barrels in 197 1-72 will grow to 250 million barrels in 1975-76 and to more than 300 million barrels in 1980, and so on as time passes. I think the Minister also is trying to convey an impression that we can remain about 70 per cent self sufficient in oil for the next 15 years. Again that is not true. Our production is likely to remain fairly static at its peak level for a few years, with wells like Mackerel and Tuna in Bass Strait coming into production to offset falling output from other wells. But by 1980 the supply-demand equation will show a very substantial change from today's position. We seem likely to be only 35 per cent to 40 per cent self sufficient in fuel by then, the drop in self sufficiency being brought about largely by increasing consumption. After that date our production rate will drop so that the situation will become very much worse. 
We are not finding the big new oil reserves we desperately need because we are not looking for them. We are not looking for them because this Minister has scared the daylights out of the exploration companies and has driven many of them and their expertise and equipment away from Australia. The cost of importing oil demonstrates the extreme seriousness of the situation. The cost of importing fuel into Australia for the year before last was $169m. Last year it was $600m. This year it is expected to be $ 1,000m and by 1980 it is expected to be at least $ 1,500m at present prices. In 10 years time we are likely to be paying about $2,000m a year for imported fuel. What an attitude when our balance of payments is declining so rapidly. These are frightening figures and the implications behind them are frightening. We will be forced to pay these enormous amounts of money for our fuel to an important degree because of the failure of this Government to declare policies on which the exploration industry can plan and which give the industry the incentives it must have to look for oil. 
The drilling figures further demonstrate the disastrous drop in exploration under this government. In 1972 some 134 wells were drilled. In 1973 there were 76 and in 1974, despite predictions earlier this year by the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association that 90 wells would be drilled this year, only 35 wells were drilled to the end of June. It is estimated that the year's total will be 45 wells. How can the Minister get up here and elsewhere and claim that we have enough fuel in Australia for the next 15 years? The tragedy is that if by some miracle people decide that new government policies made oil search worthwhile there are not the rigs available to do the job. 
In the vital offshore areas where the bulk of our oil reserves is believed to he drilling activity has fallen drastically since July due to the withdrawal of three of the 6 rigs operating around our coast. If any productive wells are found it will take at least 5 years to bring them into production. The history of natural gas on the northwest shelf is one of frustration and delay caused by the Minister's inability to come forward with a firm policy. To make matters worse, the recent Budget action to withdraw the accelerated depreciation allowance from the mining industry has caused a complete reappraisal of the northwest shelf gas project. It would not surprise me if the Government's actions and the rapid rises in costs caused by delays were to force the company concerned to think very seriously about the whole thing. Maybe that is what the Minister wants- delays, hampering and frustration until the company through sheer despair relinquishes the leases on areas it spent between $100m and $250m to discover and to prove. 
All the things I have said so far support the view I stated at the beginning of my speech, that is, that the area of minerals and energy in Australia is in a mess. It is in a mess because this Government does not have a minerals and energy policy on which the industry and the nation as a whole can work. Our plea in this debate today is to the Government to state its policies. We have asked for them over and over again. The industries concerned have asked for them over and over again. As the Prime Minister  (Mr 
Whitlam) discovered in the last 2 weeks when he visited North America, other countries want to know and deserve to know what our policies are. The Opposition parties have already published their policies in the minerals and energy area. No doubt because of the rapid worsening of the situation in recent months there would need to be careful revision of these policies and development of new initiatives if the situation is to be repaired. But we have already stated that when in Government we will immediately act to provide increased incentives for oil exploration. . 
We would rely to the greatest possible extent on free enterprise expertise and efficiency to find and produce the fuel the nation so urgently needs. We would seek to encourage the development of our natural resources for the nation's benefit within the federal framework rather than resorting to the Government's tactics of trying to destroy that framework. We reject the Minister's allegation that the Opposition is to blame for delays in development because of the High Court challenges to the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Act and the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. If the Minister could shake off his socialist thinking he could help to develop the nation's resources without running into all this trouble. He cannot fairly blame the Opposition when legislation on which there is real legal doubt is being subjected to the proper tests within the courts. The Minister is using these court proceedings as an excuse to prevent further exploration. He has refused both Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and Wapet new search areas pending resolution of the High Court challenge. He has completely gone back on earlier arrangements and undertakings. He is not honouring earlier commitments. I believe that there are very strong grounds for suspecting that the Minister is deliberately following his present course as part of a master plan to win government control of the minerals and energy industries. 
The Minister talks of Australia having 15 years supply of fuel so that he can build up a false sense of security and give himself time to work out his plans for his great dream of a Petroleum and Minerals Authority. Australia and Australians are going to pay dearly for the Minister's socialist obsession. 
I preface my question to the Acting Prime Minister by saying that about 3 weeks ago the Opposition resources committee had arranged with the Bureau of Mineral Resources to have somebody speak to it about energy sources in Australia. This officer was refused permission to speak. I have written to the Minister asking whether the Opposition might have access to officials of the Bureau of Mineral Resources to give it advice and information. I now ask the Minister when I am to get a reply. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
What is the estimated total export of (a) beef and veal and (b) mutton in tonnes product weight to the United States of America in 1 974. 
) What were the equivalent totals for 1 972 and 1 973. 
What is the estimated total import of meat by the United States of America, of items covered by the Meat Import Law, in 1974. 
On the basis of the estimates given in answer to parts (1) and (3), what would be the percentage of total United States of America imports supplied by Australia, and how does this percentage compare with the recorded performance in 1972 and 1973. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there any Government restriction on the number of live sheep that may be exported from Australia in 1 974. 
If so, is any similar restriction envisaged for 1975. 
If there is a restriction in 1974, is it administered by the Department of Agriculture or by the Meat Board, and what are the mechanics of the administration. 
What is the reason for the restrictions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Given the Canadian application of meat import quotas, what would be the permitted import by Canadian importers of Australian beef into Canada during 1974 and 1975. 
Is the quota allocation to Australia inclusive of any subsequent trans-shipment to the United States of America; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the radar deployed at military installations in Australia have low level tracking and/or over the horizon capability. 
If not, what plans exist to acquire this capability. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the volume of ( a ) beef and ( b) mutton destined for the United States of America and rejected after inspection during (i) 1973 and (ii) the latest period of 1974 for which figures are available and the comparable period of 1973. 
What proportion of the comparable volume of exports did these rejections represent during the periods mentioned in part ( 1 ). 
Was the rejected meat re-sold on the domestic market; if not: for what purposes was it used. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
What are the proved and probable gas reserves at (a) Gidgealpa, (b) Palm Valley and (c) the North West Shelf in Western Australia. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1) Is consideration being given to the acquisition by the Royal Australian Navy of surface to surface missiles such as the 'Exocet' or 'Gabriel'; if not, why not? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the average monthly Meat Board c.i.f. quotation for Australian cow beef in the United States of America, in United States dollars during (a) July 1973, (b) December 1973,(c) July 1974 and (d) August 1974. 
On the basis of those quotations, what was the equivalent Australian f.o.b. return in Australian currency during the same months taking into account currency changes, freight rates and various associated charges. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the current level of crude oil stocks held by refineries in Australia. 
What is regarded as a minimum safe level to be held at one time by refineries. 
Are current stocks and storage capacity regarded as acceptable in view of refinery capacity. 
Given average monthly refinery throughput, what level and period of refinery operation would the current stock level sustain given a complete dependence upon these stocks by refineries. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Is consideration being given to Australian participation in a Canadian proposal to develop a Caribou jet aircraft replacement called DHP-72. 
If so, when will a decision be made on Australian participation in this project. 
What would be the total cost of Australian participation in this project. 
What is the estimated service life of the Australian Caribou fleet. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
Will the Minister up-date Appendix Table A2.10 of the Green Paper up to and including estimate's for 1 974-73. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
Of the Commonwealth intervention measures relating to the rural sector listed in Table A2.13 in the Green Paper, what is the total 1 972-73 value of the measures applicable to 
Group A, (b) Group B, (c) Group C, (d) Group D, (e) Group E, (0 Group F, (g) Group G, (h) Item 2 and (i) Item 3 which have been announced by the Government as having been withdrawn, or intended to be withdrawn. 
I direct my question to the  Deputy  Prime Minister who will be aware of the Japanese policies which are preventing the export of Australian beef to Japan and which, at the same time, are making Japanese consumers pay extremely high prices for beef produced in their own country. In its discussions to be held soon with the Japanese Prime Minister, will the Government firmly point out the damaging effects which Japanese attitude is having on the Australian cattle industry which faces a crisis of extremely serious proportions? Will the Government urge the Japanese Government to adopt more realistic and less disruptive ways of protecting its own beef producers? Having in mind our Prime Minister's recent comments on Australia's responsibility to accept Japanese cars and other products in this country, which I support, will the Government make its attitude known to  Mr Tanaka  strongly, reminding him of the heavy reliance our 2 countries have on each other and the need for both of us to adopt sensible policies that take account not only of our domestic, political and economic demands but also of our interdependence? 
I would like to speak for a few moments on the estimates relating to the Department of Minerals and Energy. Some $186m has been provided in the estimates this year for this Department which controls the destiny of a very important segment of the Australian economy. We hear a generalised reference today to the mess the economy is in. I think one of the flow-on effects of not having any policies in relation to minerals and energy is the lack of confidence for investment in this area and the general slow-down in the development that we have been used to in this area which has tended to prop up particularly the industrial sector of the community. Today we live in an appalling situation in which energy is becoming a critical matter. Yet the Government just blunders along without any sound policies on oil exploration, oil and gas development, uranium or coal liquefaction. We hear these things stated. They are just rattled off ad lib but nothing constructive comes forward. There is no overall cohesive planning. While the nation is left in this state of uncertainty, the economy must suffer and so must the job opportunities of people suffer. Our export performance suffers and our balance of payments tends to run downhill. 
It is time this Government came to grips with itself and produced a policy that we and the rest of the world can understand. It takes a visit from the Japanese Prime Minister to shake the Government up and to get some sort of cohesive policy on uranium. We still have not heard the policies, but we are waiting for something to come forward in the next couple of days. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, an international organisation of enormous repute, solidly criticised the Australian Government for its lack of policies in these areas at a time when the world really wanted to know what Australia's stand was. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  will no doubt react by saying: 'Well, we have a great Pipeline Authority'. This is a grandiose idea. It certainly involves countless millions of dollars of taxpayers' funds, funds that were not really necessary to be spent in this area because private enterprise had already committed itself. But we hear now that the pipeline to be laid by the Pipeline Authority is ultimately to be extended right across to the North West Shelf. In one way this will be a good thing because it seems to be the only possibility for any development of the off-shore natural gas supplies of the North West 
Shelf. But can the North West Shelf-Pilbara concept succeed whilst there is written into legislation a provision that gas has to be sold at the one price all over Australia? If that is a fact then there is no chance of development of the North West Shelf-Pilbara complex and the petrochemical, steel and aluminium industries associated with it and all the ideas that have been canvassed many times for this area, because the whole success of that scheme, as the report presented by the Minister for Northern Development and the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  said, was based on getting gas at a concessional price. Of course, the legislation, as it stands today, prevents that. 
Oil exploration is in an appalling situation. It is virtually grinding to a halt. The Minister keeps citing the number of feet drilled this year as against last year. The best indicator to measure the rate of growth of oil exploration is the number of miles of seismic surveys carried out. Two years ago a total 83,000 miles of seismic survey was carried out; this year there will be only 17,000 miles. The survey is necessary to determine whether the proper geological formations exist which might contain oil-bearing rock, but if that basic work is not going on there will be no drilling. At the moment there is only one seismic vessel operating off the coast and the maximum it can service is 3 rigs. We have already lost 3 rigs in the last 4 months and we have got only another 3 rigs there. BHP-Esso and WoodsideBurmah on the North- West Shelf cannot even get an extension of their exploration rights. They have not been granted a permit. Why? Because the Minister claims that there is a High Court challenge to the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. That is no reason for holding up the granting of permits. The very Act makes provision for any change of sovereignty. If there should be a decision in favour of the Commonwealth the Act automatically provides for it. 
Of course, the whole matter is being stymied and held up because the Minister ultimately wants to get absolute control over the situation. He does not seem to have any consideration for the future oil supplies of this country which are dwindling today. Australia has already used up 22 per cent of known resources and we have got only enough to continue for about another 8 years. The Minister says 15 years at the present rate of consumption, but anybody who has done the arithmetic knows that we will be only 40 per cent self-sufficient by about 1980 and about 20 per cent self-sufficient by 1985, and the import bill will be going up enormously. 
The Petroleum and Minerals Authority is under challenge by the State governments in the High Court of Australia, yet the Minister goes ahead and spends money- he is going to try to spend $50m in the next eight or nine months- investing taxpayers' money in many areas where its investment is probably not warranted. But if the Government should be overruled, what is going to happen to all the decisions that have been made for government involvement? How is it going to untangle the financial mess there? One of the matters I want to bring up this afternoon in relation to PMA involvement and the fears that people have had about Government intrusion is the Wambo case which has been revealed in the Press in the last few days. I think this is one of the most despicable and disgraceful performances that I have known of a government. 
Let us look at the facts. The Australian AngloAmerican company, which has been operating in Australia for a number of years on oil exploration, brought into Australia approximately $20m worth of funds for general mineral exploration. It was invited by an Australian company, Wambo Mining Investment Co., to try to help it develop a new coal deposit. It was not a takeover, it was an invitation for more capital. Anglo-American had negotiations with Wambo in June and July and made a financial arrangement which they then presented to the Governmentto the Department of Minerals and Energy- for approval for foreign investment in this undertaking, for a 49 per cent involvement in this company, but additional capital. They waited to find out whether the Government approved or disapproved, but last week an officer from the Treasury rang up about 5 minutes before question time and was told that they would be informed of the Minister's decision by way of a Dorothy Dix question in this House. The Minister's decision was to disallow Australian AngloAmerican from participating in this joint venture and wherever its name was included in the agreement it was crossed out and the PMA was put in its place. 
There had been negotiations to get the Australian Industry Development Corporation to come in and to reduce the foreign equity holdings if that was the wish of the Government, but of course AIDC did not even come into it. It was completely overridden; in fact, the companies have been hijacked of all the confidential information relating to their business, relating to the coal deposit. It is nothing more than highway robbery by this Government. Is it any wonder that there is a lack of confidence by private investors, by foreign investors coming in and involving their money in this country when the fear of an authority like the PMA is hanging over thenheads? 
The Minister smiles and smirks. I think it is a despicable performance. Confidential information is supposed to be confidential information. Who is going to trust the Government with information about deposits and involvement in enterprises if this is the way the Minister is going to perform. Yes, he smiles. We know - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Did the  Deputy  Prime Minister recently meet  Mr Noel  Hogan,  President  of the Australian Farmers' Federation, during which a number of matters related to rural industries were discussed? I ask the  Deputy  Prime Minister whether he gave  Mr Hogan  'some very nice assurances' on the superphosphate bounty, to quote  Mr Hogan  's words after the meeting, and did he undertake that if the price of superphosphate rose further the Government would seriously consider looking at the situation again? Did he tell  Mr Hogan  that primary producers might hope for something to be done about taxation concessions within 6 months? If  Mr Hogan  's account of the meeting is correct- I refer to an interview that he gave in the Australian Broadcasting Commission's National Farm Report on 9 October- will the  Deputy  Prime Minister confirm these undertakings to reconsider the superphosphate bounty if the prices continue to rise, and to reconsider taxation concessions within 6 months? 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
What amount of the 1973-74 Budget allocation for Government involvement in coal exploration was expended. 
If the full amount was not utilised, what was the reason. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What stand-off air-to-ground missiles are available operationally to (a) Royal Australian Navy aircraft or helicopters and (b) Royal Australian Air Force aircraft or helicopters. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Pipeline Authority to exercise only the role of common carrier in the supply of gas from the Gidgealpa reserves to Sydney. 
If so, will this role apply to the proposed further extension of the activities of the Pipeline Authority in Australia as regards transmission of gas. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Has the Government been able to resolve its position on uranium policy, and will he tell the Parliament what this policy is? Does he agree that it is proper that the Parliament of this country should be advised of the Government's policy before that of other governments? If Parliament is to be informed, will he allow some debate on this question? 
asked the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Has Australia been aproached to join an international body involving world sugar purchasers. 
If so, what was the reaction of the Australian Government. 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. I ask: Will he be making a statement on the economy? There have been many newspaper reports of such a statement. Will he make such a statement because he no longer has confidence in the Treasurer and the Treasurer will not have the responsibility for such a statement? 
-My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Wimmera. The Prime Minister pointed out correctly that meat was a difficult commodity for food aid because it required refrigeration. I ask the Prime Minister whether his Government will give consideration to allowing canned meat and brine processed meat to be part of food aid. I ask this question because in many meatworks around Australia today low quality meat cuts are now going into meat meal. It seems a shocking situation that, in a country which is a great food producer of protein, meat of this type is going into meat meal processes when people around the world desperately need the meat. If the Government could give consideration to helping finance the canning process as well as aiding export sales it would be of considerable help. 
We have been listening to the high priest of the Australian Labor Party who is responsible for the highest rate of unemployment that this country has seen since the depression. He pontificates in a manner which must be disturbing to every unemployed person in Australia as well as to the members of this Parliament. He is quite unmoved and quite unashamed of what the Government has done to this country during the last 20 months. We on this side of the House believe in full employment. We have demonstrated during a long period that we know how to manage the economy, that we know the delicate balances that are required to give a free enterprise economy stimulus, to give it confidence and to give job opportunities to the people. But this Government, with all its new petty, new-fangled ideas and ideologies had created the greatest confusion in government administration that this country has seen. The Government is made up of people who are nothing more than a lot of wild Indians galloping in all directions causing the greatest cavalcade of confusion that the country has seen. This situation will not be corrected until some basic guidelines are put down in every area of administration that industry desperately wants. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is the Minister who not so many months ago was saying that wages do not increase prices. It appears to me that the penny has dropped all of a sudden because now he is starting to recognise that it is inflation, it is the cost-push coming from increased wages that is depriving businesses of the opportunity to employ people. He has finally realised that wages have outstripped productivity and that there has to be a bit of sanity and a realisation of the basic economic facts. The Labor Party, which claims to look after the ordinary working man and woman of this country, has betrayed them. It is quite insensitive now to the action it has taken. . 
One action taken by the Government which has caused unemployment was the revaluation of the currency. The Opposition criticised the Government on 3 occasions last year for taking this action. But the Government went ahead and revalued the currency and made it difficult for industries to compete against imports. Then, in a most academic way the Government cut tariffs across the board. The Government did not discriminate and did not ascertain what the impact would be on the motor industry or the textile industry. Instead it was quite happy to take this step because it thought that this was the way to curb private investment and the private sector of the economy. Of course, the Government has not curbed its reckless spending which has been made on the basis that the sky is the limit. There has been no realisation that ultimately there is a time of judgment and that inflation basically stems from the Government's attitude to spending. The Government has taken steps to dampen down the private sector of the economy and to stimulate the public sector. But what has this done? It has completely dashed confidence in an area in which people are now holding back or are incapable of being able to invest to create more job opportunities. 
The Government has indulged in a slanging match in respect of foreign investment, multinational companies, farmers and the mining industry. But now we have the almost absurd and ludicrous situation of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  going overseas cap in hand to beg the Arab countries of all people to invest money here. He is even asking the great Japanese multi-national motor car companies to come in and take over Chrysler. What hypocrisy we are seeing from this Government. It just shows you how insincere it is at election time when it peddles emotive issues knowing full well that it is only living for the moment. But ultimately there will be a time of judgment and the time of judgment is coming because Australia is now suffering severe unemployment which will get worse as time goes on. At the moment on a seasonally adjusted basis 190,000 people or 3.2 per cent of the work force are unemployed. But we know that the real figure is vastly greater than that because the figure I have just mentioned does not include people such as women who are out of the work force or people who are waiting for a job or new school leavers who have not been able to register. It is anticipated that 350,000 people, or about 6 per cent of the Australian work force, will be out of a job by January. Such a level of unemployment is quite intolerable in this country. We have never heard of such a level. This Government ought to resign. This Minister who claims to have a close liaison with the trade unions and who says that he can manage the trade union movement ought to resign. He is certainly showing little sympathy for the unemployed people across this country. 
There are areas in my own electorate which already have unemployment rates higher than 6 per cent. The September figures show that the employment rate for Casino is 7.8 per cent and that the rate in Lismore is 6 per cent. This rate is going up daily as businesses find that as a result of the tight liquidity situation and inflation they have to tighten down and they just cannot employ people. What the Government must realise is that if there is to be confidence in the private sector there has to be a capacity to make a profit. There is nothing wrong with profit, although this Government seems to have a hang-up on this question. There is nothing wrong or illegal about profit. The whole situation is made ludicrous by the way in which the Government is sooling on the Prices Justification Tribunal to ensure that businesses make a very minimum of profit. Big business cannot continue to re-invest unless it enjoys a degree of profit. When Broken Hill Pry Co. Ltd has to go begging to the Tribunal 4 times in a year to try to get a reasonable profit, how can it manage to continue an investment program which is absolutely vital for this country? I read in the Press today that Kraft Foods Ltd went to the Tribunal early this year and received an increase of 4 per cent. Today, all of a sudden and for some unknown reason, the Prices Justification Tribunal is to give it a 1 3.4 per cent increase. 
There are other factors apart from this. I refer to the Industries Assistance Commission, which is a complete misnomer- it should be called by other names- which the Prime Minister has been backing to the hilt. The organisation does not seem to recognise that one of its main charters is the protection of Australian industry to create job opportunities for people. It does not need to give over protection, but it should give reasonable protection. Because of the way this organisation is working, most of the industries in country areas are suffering. Examples are the textile industry, which is in a panic situation, and the clothing industry. A big firm like Email Ltd does not know where it stands with the production of compressors, yet it employs 500 people. Somehow or other confidence has to be instilled into the community again. But confidence is not instilled in the community when the Prime Minister, in a most undignified manner, goes down and confers with the head of the trade union movement in Australia,  Mr Hawke,  to find out what he ought to do. Goodness me, where is the leadership of this country? Where are the government departments which are the respositories of all wisdom and all knowledge as to how to manage the country? 
Of course the Prime Minister completely ignores the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and overrides the Treasury. He thinks they do not know. The Caucus will not acept Treasury advice. It is little wonder that we get into a state of economic chaos when we have a government which is not prepared to take the proper advice that is given to it. We see the RED scheme- the regional employment development scheme- brought forward as a means of soaking up some of the unemployment. It is a worthy scheme but it is second best. The best is permanent employment with people in regular jobs where they have a bit of dignity and where they do not have to go out to do manual jobs. How do women get a job under the RED scheme? Are they supposed to go out and start digging in the claypits or sweeping the streets? They cannot do so. This scheme is a secondary method of coping with the situation. 
We have a terrible inconsistency with the retrenchment scheme where people are given an entitlement of 6 months government allowance equivalent to their salary, including overtime, for the past 6 months. We have the situation now where people who are still employed in factories will be getting less wages for 6 months than those who were put off. 
Why should only a few people in the community be privileged when hundreds of thousands are now unemployed and all they receive is the unemployment benefit? The whole situation is gyrating. Nobody knows where we are going. But worst of all people are being hurt very severely because they are unemployed and unable to sustain their families in a dignified and decent way of living. 
asked the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
Have discussions occurred between officers of his Department and the Department of Minerals and Energy on the availability of natural gas from the North West Shelf gas deposits for industrial use in the Pilbara region; if so, what was the outcome of those discussions. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
To what countries has the Ikara anti-submarine weapon been supplied since S December 1 972. 
Was the weapon supplied by the Australian Government or by a foreign government in each case. 
What control does the Australian Government have over the supply of Australian weapon systems to foreign governments by third parties. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Are there any limitations imposed by the Australian Government on the installation of Ikara anti-submarine missiles on frigates built in Britain and sold to overseas countries; if so, what are these limitations. 
Are there any limitations on the supply of these missiles to frigates acquired by Chile; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
What sales of Jindivik target missiles have been recorded during 1973 and in 1 974 to date. 
) What is the monthly production of these missiles. 
What is the undelivered backlog of orders for these missiles. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) is the proposed future conversion of coal in Australia to oil to employ (a) the pyrolysis process, (b) the hydrogeneration process or (c) the partial oxidation process. 
What studies have been undertaken at his instigation on (a) the relative technical suitability of the above methods in relation to Australian circumstances and (b) the relative cost per unit of energy of the processes in part ( 1 ). 
What studies have been undertaken at his instigation on the relative merits of differing locations for the proposed coal conversion plants. 
Will he table the results of the studies referred to in parts(2)and(3). 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) How many people are employed by the Pipeline Authority (a) in a consultative capacity and (b) on a permanent basis. 
What were the respective salary or fee costs for those employed in the two categories in part ( 1 ) during 1 973-74. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Was consideration given to Australian participation in the development of an advanced Harrier aircraft in association with Britain and the United States of America; if not, why not. 
Would such an aircraft have a role in any future fleet air arm and/or Royal Australian Air Force; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What is the estimated (a) capital cost, and (b) date of completion of the Cockburn Sound Naval Base. 
I second the motion,  Mr Speaker.  I wish to support the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in asking that the Standing Orders be suspended to allow General Business Notice No. 10 to come forward for debate. That motion seeks a vote of no confidence in the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  because of the compromised position in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has placed the Treasurer. I support this motion for 2 reasons. One is the national and international uncertainty that the present situation has created in the fiscal and monetary policies of this Government at a time when we desperately need confidence and some sort of cohesive policy from the Government. 
I do so also because I think this is an appalling way to treat a colleague who has been absolutely loyal to his Leader and to his Party. I know of nothing more shameful than to allow a motion of no confidence to remain on the notice paper. In my long experience in this Parliament whenever a motion of no confidence has been proposed in a colleague that motion has been dealt with immediately; otherwise it allows rumours to spread and it places the name of the man concerned immediately under a cloud. If there is one thing that every member of this Parliament will say, it is that the Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, is an honourable and decent man. He is a trustworthy person. 
What manner of man is the Prime Minister to allow this sort of thing to happen? We all know that he has not even talked to the Treasurer about changing his portfolio. What he has done is to allow him to stew and to carry all the shame and all the discredit for the mismanagement of the economy by this Government. Who was responsible for the devaluation decisions which threw hundreds of people out of employment? I suppose technically the Treasurer has to take the responsibility. This is one of the reasons that we have moved this motion. But it was the Prime Minister who did it. - 
This is related to the man and the blame that is being put on him. Technically he should accept it. But the fault lies with the Prime Minister. Who is the man who said that there ought to be a tariff cut of 25 per cent across the board. The Prime Minister. Yet the Treasurer is bearing the shame of all these decisions. There has been a complete reversal of every economic policy. Why? The Treasurer was never allowed in the first place to put his point of view forward. It is wrong for the nation to allow this situation to continue in a state of uncertainty when the one thing that we want is confidence. Yet the Prime Minister has not the courage, he has not the guts, to come to grips with the matter and to deal with it immediately. If he feels this way, why does he not walk straight into the Treasurer's office and tell him straight out that he wants to change his position? But he will not do it If there is to be any respect for a leader it will be respect for a leader who deals with the personal attitudes and problems of bis membersthose from whom he expects loyalty. The Treasurer certainly is entitled to expect loyalty parallelling the loyalty which he has shown to the Prime Minister. 
I think this is one of the worst performances I have seen. A leader who expects to rally a tight group around him so that he is competent to manage and capable of managing the affairs of this country has allowed this situation to continue. I say that the motion of no confidence should be brought on immediately. We all know that the Prime Minister is going to axe the Treasurer at the weekend and that there is to be a change of ministry. Why? It will be to cover up for bis own mismanagement and his own errors. We know he thinks it is intellectually dirty to deal with economic affairs. But now he is trying to cover up- to use the Treasurer as a scapegoat for all of his bad decisions, the decisions that are causing the highest rate of inflation, the highest interest rates and highest unemployment that we have seen in this country. It is about time that he came to grips with the situation and stopped pouring the blame on to the Treasurer who does not deserve it. 
The Treasurer is a decent fellow who does not deserve to be left under shadow or cloud of uncertainty under which the Prime Minister is at present leaving him. I hope that the Prime Minister will bring the debate on immediately and if his Party wants to support the Treasurer to the hilt, let it do so. At least the Prime Minister should give the Treasurer the dignity of an expression of the confidence of this House. Then, if the Prime Minister wants to change him at the weekend he can do so. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he recalls writing to the  Chairman  of the Prices Justification Tribunal on 12 November in these terms:  .... the Tribunal should give particular attention to the problems of sustaining and stimulating an adequate level of private investment and of maintaining rates of return on capital which will induce the new investment required to maintain economic growth and employment. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the fact that the search for new oil deposits in Australia has virtually come to a halt because of the low return to Australian producers in comparison with return to producers in other countries, and because of the withdrawal by the Government of oil search incentives? I ask the Prime Minister whether it might not be in the interests of the Australian people, who are already paying nearly $ 1 ,000m a year for imported fuel, to adopt the policy of the Opposition Parties, which is that oil pricing policy should be reviewed now with a view to deciding what should be done after the expiry of the present agreement, having in mind the urgent need to stimulate exploration. Can the Prime Minister see any inconsistency between his letter to the Tribunal this week and the virtual destruction of Australia's oil search program by his refusal to give explorers any indication as to what they may look forward to after the expiry of the agreement? 
-The Bill before us, the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation BUI, is one that the Opposition supports. The amendments proposed will extend the operations of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation, which was created by the previous Government and slowly built up to become an important adjunct to export performance by both primary and manufacturing industries in Australia. During the period in which I was responsible for this legislation I was able to have amendments accepted to establish credit provisions for exporters. This was of use to those who wanted to export large capital goods outside the country. In this legislation there is a proposal to set up an export finance section of the Corporation, for which the Government will be making funds available. The Bill provides for capital of $50m, of which $5m will be made immediately available. This facility is needed, I believe, to match faculties available in other countries. Canada, Japan, the United States of America and New Zealand have organisations which provide export finance and our exporters run into difficulties when they find that preferred credit is available from these countries because of lower interest rates and there is not the facility in Australia for them to have access to these credit arrangements. Therefore, they tend to lose business or they are not in such a good position to get business. 
I believe the BUI has been looked at by the private banking sector and, whilst it has some reservations about it, I think the fact that there are some clauses in the Bill which give a degree of protection against this becoming a general banking function should alleviate any fears it may have. The clause which says that, first of all, exporters must apply to the normal banking institutions for funds before they can appeal to the Finance Corporation is a wise one. It is very similar to the provision that now rests with the Development Bank legislation. Also, it has been made quite clear by the Government- I hope it will stick to the commitment- that the Corporation will not be a bank as such but will be an organisation to provide finance to make package credit arrangements with private banking organisations and the merchant banks so that exporters may have available to them the preferred form of credit when it is necessary to use it. 
Certainly, in Australia today every effort has to be made in encouraging our export industries. We are running into a difficult balance of payments position. We see our reserves running down. They have gone down by over $ 1 ,000m in the last 1 8 months. It is the trend, however, that is causing a good deal of anxiety. AH the portents are that our reserves will continue to run down and there does not seem to be anything in sight to stop the process. With capital inflow tending to dry up, with imports running at a very high rate and with our invisibles getting higher, our overseas reserves must tend to become more delicate in the long run. We will have to do whatever we can for the great farming industries and the mining and manufacturing industries which export to try to reverse this situation. 
I am pleased to see that the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  is sitting at the table today. Our pseudo-Treasurer has been overseas trying to solicit funds. He has been busy wooing the Wall Street capitalists to try to get desperately needed funds for the Australian situation. 1 know it must hurt him to have to soil his pocket with some of this filthy capitalist money from places such as America, but I guess any port in a storm is all right. Some people ride hard before a fall. Pride is very important, but for other people. If necessity is the order of the day the Government says: 'We will get the money wherever we can to try to remain in office'. I think it is quite obvious nowadays, with the present Government, that if we are to keep up the high rate of development in this country and to maintain high living standards- and certainly high employment rates- we will need a degree of overseas funds. Really it does amaze one on this side of the House to see such an ardent socialist going to a country like America, begging for money, carrying his bag around in the hope that somebody will put something in it. We are all very anxious to see just how much will be really available when the times comes. We keep hearing very optimistic statements that hundreds of millions of dollars, billions in fact, are available for investment. We want to see whether these investors really have confidence in this country under a Labor administration to continue investing as they did previously. But that is getting a bit wide of the Bill. 
There is a great need for a build-up of our overseas reserves, and exporters must be encouraged. Last year was a pretty bad year for giving encouragement to the export industries. The 3 devaluations, which were quite unnecessary, really bruised the export industries and confidence was substantially dashed. On top of that we had the indiscriminate across the board cut in tariffs. I think all of us would like to see tariffs as low as possible. Some of them no doubt had not been reviewed for a long period of time and for them an across the board tariff cut probably had some economic virtues. But for industries which had been examined only recently, or for great industries such as the motor car industry, or for the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement or the agreements we had with the less developed countries, the consequences were quite devastating. Of course we are now reaping the harvest of those inappropriate government decisions and we must find a way out by encouraging more exports. The sort of legislation that we are considering will have quite a bearing, I think, on encouraging the sale of some manufactured goods overseas. But it is very much in its infancy. To start it off with $5m is just a drop in the ocean, but it is in the right direction. The Opposition approves of this sort of measure for developing export finance arrangements. 
The deteriorating balance of payments situation is highlighted very clearly by the September quarter figures for this year in which we see a deficit of $620m. This represents a trade deficit of $145m. It is the first trade deficit recorded in 6 years and represents a rise of $340m in the overall deficit when compared with the June quarter. These are very worrying figures because the trend is getting worse and worse as every quarter goes by. Despite the record prices that we are receiving for some of our exports, the September quarter showed imports coming in at the rate of $2,086m. If this trend continues Australia will lose the advantageous position it has had as a trading nation around the world. Not only do these figures show a disturbing pattern in Australia's trading position, but also they explain the reason for the high unemployment which we are experiencing at present in industries affected by the indiscriminate tariff cuts which I have mentioned. Of course, the drop in our overseas reserves is one of the prime reasons why we are suffering very severe credit difficulties in this country. We cannot have a drop of $ 1,000m in overseas reserves in a period of 12 months without that having its impact. Virtually it means a drawing off of $ 1,000m from circulation in our community. Whilst the Government tries to bolster the community by Treasury bonds and by creating more liquidity by Government spending, this situation will be offset all the time while our reserves continue to go down. What is necessary and needed urgently in this country today is to encourage people in all the export industries to have confidence in themselves to invest and to expand the rate of production. Until the Government recognises this and until it recognises that the mining industry and the great agricultural industries play an important part, along with the manufacturing industries, we will have continuing economic troubles in this country. I wish the Government's indication to help by this legislation in setting up a finance section of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation could be reflected also in its attitude to some of the other industries. 
I think the Government has shown very little aptitude, indeed a great deal of inexperience, in handling trade negotiations. During the recent visit of the Japanese Prime Minister the Government really did not take advantage of the opportunity to press the Prime Minister of Japan on reciprocal trade arrangements. I think the Japanese gained considerable advantage out of those discussions by obtaining access to Australian uranium- which I would never want to hold back from them- but I would think that we are deserving of special consideration in relation to our beef exports to Japan. We have been one of the big exporters of beef to Japan. We have been providing 90 per cent of their requirements. 
It is as obvious as day follows night that as the years go by Japan will be looking to Australia for more and more beef. We have been responding by developing our production and the size of our herds to meet markets such as the Japanese market. But just to have the door closed and then simply to express concern to the Japanese Prime Minister, without getting the slightest indication that Japan is prepared to open the door in the near future or to discuss a rearrangement of its own domestic marketing situation, I think is a pretty harsh way to treat what has been a good partner as far as international negotiations are concerned. 
I would have thought that if there had been preliminary discussions at an official level on this whole mutual trade arrangement between Japan and Australia, with special reference to uranium and beef, which were the 2 big questions when the Japanese Prime Minister came here- apart from the motor car industry, and even the problems there are small compared with those of the beef industry of Australia- that a satisfactory solution should have been found. But of course the Government bungled the whole thing. It just did not have any policy relating to uranium and it left it right until the eve of the Japanese Prime Minister's visit here, desperately working until the early hours of the morning, to try to devise a policy. How can we put ourselves in an advantageous negotiating position if we wait until the eleventh hour to know what stand we will take? 
As the honourable member for Hume well knows, we lost the advantage and the Japanese capitalised upon it. While we went round and round in circles trying to come to some firm conclusions, the Japanese continued on their course knowing full well that at the last minute Australia had no option but to give them practically what they wanted. I bring out these points because really our balance of payments should not be in the deteriorating situation that it is. It is quite clear that the Government's lack of experience and its acquiescence - 
-Yes, it is. It is probably a bit too big for a city slicker like the honourable member for Robertson. The Government's acquiescence to the pressures of the consuming public has undermined the operations of the export industries of this country. The only reason the Government devalued the Australian currency was to try to muffle the wage increases which it was giving to the trade union movement of the country. Of course the Government thought that the export industries could continue to survive even though they were robbed of hundreds of millions of dollars, if not thousands of millions of dollars, by a 25 per cent revaluation against the United States dollar and the Japanese yen. But of course the chickens are starting to come home to roost. The Government has undermined our capacity to earn foreign exchange and to attract overseas interests to invest in this country so that high economic activity can be continued. As a result, unemployment has developed. I only hope that there will be a complete reversal of all the Government's policies relating to export industries before long if we are to get ourselves out of the quagmire that we have got ourselves into at the moment with abnormally high interest rates, with inflation robbing people of their savings and with unemployment getting considerably worse. 
Having said those things, I support this legislation. I hope it is administered as wisely as the former Export Payments Insurance Corporation arrangements were. EPIC was an organisation that had the respect of everybody in business and commerce throughout the country. I give the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  credit; I do not think he ever criticised the operations of EPIC. He saw it as a very valuable adjunct to overseas trading. I see this new provision of export finance as an equally valuable further step in a Government form of assistance for private enterprise and for export arrangements. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Why was the Australian aircraft industry and his Department not represented at the Farnborough Air Show in 1974. 
Was an invitation extended to Australian industry and the Australian Government to be represented. 
-My question is a follow-up question to the one just answered by the Treasurer and it is directed to the Prime Minister. Does the Prime Minister recall his criticism not so long ago of the Opposition for being prophets of doom, saboteurs and so on? Does he agree that what is urgently needed in Australia is confidence, certainty and a sense of direction? Did he say this week that Australia faces the worst economic situation it has faced for some 40 years? Did  Mr Hawke  say recently that the worst depression in Australia since the great depression of the 1930s will occur next year? Will the Prime Minister stop acting like a prophet of doom and a saboteur of national confidence and begin acting like a national leader, instead of trying to condition the public to his own Government's mismanagement? 
The Opposition has brought forward this matter of public importance because of its very great concern for secondary industries and the significant pan which they play in employing Australians. About 28 per cent of the Australian work force is associated with the manufacturing industry and 28 per cent of the Gross National Product is produced by this very important segment. So the importance of this industry just cannot be laughed off. 
I think that all honourable members- at least those on this side of the House- were rather amazed at the performance of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who treated this matter as being very insignificant. In fact he seems to think that an unemployment rate of about 3.2 per cent or 190,000 people is trivial. The  Deputy  Prime Minister used the words: 'We have to start to accept that unemployment is necessary'. The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Labor Party is accepting now that unemployment has to be pan of anti-inflationary measures. I hope that every Labor man and every unemployed person reads what the  Deputy  Prime Minister had to say. It was also quite amazing to hear the manner in which the  Deputy  Prime Minister spoke this afternoon. I have never heard him speak in such a frantic way. He spoke almost as if he were leading some moratorium march. It is obvious that tensions are building up within himself and his own Party at their mismanagement, ineptitude and inability to cope with the situation which the Government itself has produced. It is no use for the  Deputy  Prime Minister to shelter behind the international situation. He is cowering behind a mass of statistics of other countries. This country should never have suffered the unemployment that is now taking place. We have not been subject to the same circumstances to which other countries have been subject. We have not been involved with the energy crisis to nearly the same degree as other countries because we have been 70 per cent self-sufficient with the cheapest fuel in the world. 
Well, we would at least review it. We would not put ourselves at the mercy of the Arab States, as the Government will do with its negative policies. We have some of the cheapest steel in the world. Our copper and food are cheaper than those of most comparable countries. It is a lot of nonsense to use the international situation as an excuse for the position in which Australia is now placed. I wonder how investors would have reacted if they had heard the darling of Wall Street perform today? I am sure that the distressed way in which the  Deputy  Prime Minister acted today would never engender any confidence in them to invest in Australia. The  Deputy  Prime Minister completely ignored the situation in which manufacturing industries find themselves and he completely ignored the consequences of tariff cuts, devaluation and all of these other matters. 
Unemployed workers from secondary industries have a lot to be worried and concerned about in what the  Deputy  Prime Minister said today. I think that those people who have the opportunity of reading what has been said this afternoon will agree that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  put forward a strong and constructive speech outlining the concern that the Opposition has, because there is great concern. The  Deputy  Prime Minister said that some secondary industries are doing well and some are doing badly. I suppose anyone can make a generalised statement like that. We know from the survey figures that are now being compiled by the Department of Manufacturing Industry that the prospects are the gloomiest since the surveys were first conducted. Other surveys conducted by the Bank of New South Wales and the ANZ bank indicate great concern as to how secondary industries are to cope in future. 
I think the difficulties of manufacturing industry can be summed up in this way. There has been a very sharp rise in imports; profits are being squeezed by rising wages and costs, and by the activities of the Prices Justification Tribunal; interest rates are very high, and finance is hard to get; domestic and export demand have slackened; and unchecked inflation is eating the heart out of the economy. The net result of all this is a fall in profitability, a consequent fall in capacity to invest and capacity to employ people. The Government, after producing an extremely serious situation in the manufacturing sector and badly hurting many of Labor's strongest supportersthe people in the work force- has at last begun to show some faint signs of understanding about what is happening, and why it is happening. 
There has been a slight reduction in the rate of company tax, but there needs to be a great deal more to engender any confidence. All companies, in all sectors, should be told that there is no need to comply with the requirement that they pay the quarterly tax instalments which are going to place tremendous strains on liquidity. The Government's adamant, if not dogmatic, approach to 3 revaluations of the currency last year did enormous harm. The Government must do something about the damage being done to industry as a result of its arbitrary and indiscriminate across-the-board tariff cut of last year. This cut failed to do what it was supposed to do- that is, to keep down prices. All it did was to damage Australian industry and put many thousands out of work. But the Deputy Prime Minister says that this is a trivial matter. 
I am not suggesting a blanket reinstatement of the previous tariff levels. What I am suggesting is selective action to repair the damage caused by the Government's inept handling of this matter. There must be more encouragement of export. There must be encouragement of investment in industry. Industry must be able to get investment finance on better terms. The tragedy is that, whatever the Government does- and there is really no sign that it intends to do anything more than the meagre amount it has done already- the outlook for the immediate future is by no means encouraging. The first quarter of next year seems certain to see inflation at a rate of about 25 per cent. 
Unemployment then could be as high as 300,000 in March. I suppose that is going to be trivial too when they have to face up to it. 
There is no sign of increasing domestic demand. World demand will remain slack. World commodity prices are unlikely to pick up to any degree. Liquidity will remain a problem, and interest rates are unlikely to fall. All in all, the picture is a depressing one, and the responsibility largely rests with this Government. Of course, when we have tried to draw the attention of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to these things in the past, he has accused us of being rumourmongers, prophets of doom, and saboteurs of confidence. Yet now we have the Prime Minister himself talking about the worst economic prospects for 40 years. We have the  president  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions predicting the worst depression in Australia since the thirties. Who now are the saboteurs of confidence, the rumour-mongers, the prophets of doom? How can there be any certainty, and confidence that the Government knows which way it is going, when we are seeing so many somersaults and about-faces and changes of gear? 
We have the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the erstwhile foe of foreign investment, the champion of Australia for Australians, now running around the world, cap in hand, pleading- crawling- for foreign money to try to get the Australian economy out of the mess this Government has got itself into. We have the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  that former battler against the evil, sinister world of big business, now self-righteously shouting to the world the virtue- the absolute necessity- for business and industry to make profits. How on earth can anyone have the slightest confidence that this Government has the faintest idea of where it is going when you have these backflips going on all the time in the 3-ring circus called the Whitlam Government? 
We even have the Prime Minister writing to the Prices Justification Tribunal telling it to stop squeezing companies so hard they cannot find the money to re-invest. What an admission. What an admission now after about 12 months of practically crippling them. What a shambles this Government is in. 
After nearly 2 years of industry bashing, the larrikins of the Labor Party are beginning- but only beginning- to come to their senses, and to realise how much damage they have caused. The trouble is that there is no easy way to repair that damage. The government now has to knuckle down to the job of trying to patch up the mess as best it can, and to carry manufacturing industry through the coming tough times to avoid the impact and social fallout that will be the result of its policies. Dressed-up dole schemes, like NEAT and RED, are all very well, and all very necessary. 
This Government has a lot to answer for for the 'trivial amount' of 190,000 unemployed now and the 300,000 there will be next year. But as far as we on this side of the House are concerned, it is not trivial at all. It concerns the lives of people; it concerns industry. If we have an opportunity we will instil a bit of confidence back into the Australian community. We will encourage savings and the capacity to reinvest. That is what this nation desperately needs. I doubt whether it will ever get it with a Minister for Manufacturing Industry telling industry what it ought to do, giving it little lectures from day to day on an academic approach to these problems. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and is prompted by a report in the Press today that he intends to visit Paris during his forthcoming overseas trip. I ask the Prime Minister whether he has received an official invitation from the French Government or from the Prime Minister of France to visit that country. 
Yes, I second the motion. Normally I would reserve my right to speak but it is quite obvious that the Government is ducking for cover and that it intends to gag this debate as soon as the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has spoken. Why is the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  not here? This is the most important motion that can be moved in the House. It is a motion of no confidence in the Government. The public has no confidence in the Government today and it is about time this Parliament had the right of expressing its opinion as to whether it wants the Government to remain in office. If any of the supporters of the Government had the moral courage to express their real sentiments they would be voting against the Government today because of the deplorable situation that so many average citizens find themselves in today. 
Where is the Prime Minister? Why is he not accepting his responsibility to answer for his Government? Why is he handing over that responsibility to the Deputy Prime Minister? It is because of his contempt for this Parliament. He thinks he can ride roughshod over this Parliament; that it does not matter. If members of the Australian Labor Party are starting to wonder why their rating is going down in the public's eye, it is because of this arrogant, self-styled presidential type of Prime Minister we have today. It is about time they started to realise that if ever they want to have the chance of being in government again in the future they had better do something about the situation. The ill-feeling that runs through their Party for the Prime Minister because of the way in which he has been acting lately is something which one would not like to mention in this House. But it is there, it is obvious and we all know about it. 
This Prime Minister does not seem to react to public criticism or to sensitivity. We are in this desperate situation. The Prime Minister has said in his own words that it is the worst situation that has developed for 40 years, and the  President  of his Party,  Mr Hawke,  has said that next year will be the worst year since the Depression in the 1930s. Yet the Prime Minster is not even prepared to come into the House and talk on a motion expressing a want of confidence in the Government's management of the economy. The Government is not even prepared to allow a full scale debate on this matter in the Parliament. I ask honourable members: What sort of a Government do we have? It is deserving of the greatest condemnation that is possible when it treats this matter so lightly. 
Of course, the Prime Minister is prepared to go overseas. Nobody can talk him out of his little cultural excursion overseas. It is nothing more than a cultural excursion. He cannot even get the head of his own Department to go with him. He cannot get the secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs to go with him. He had to bludgeon the secretary of the Department of Overseas Trade and the Secretary of the Department of Minerals and Energy to go with him. He has built up a team of about 35 people to go with him because he always wants to have a big team around him. If he does this, he looks more like a president. This is why he does it. He has chartered an aircraft at enormous expense. He does not worry about criticism. The trouble with the present Prime Minister is that he is not prepared to give an example to the rest of .the nation in a time of great need. 
There is terrific concern about the actions of the Government. We have seen its example of giving jobs to the boys. We have seen the discontent in the Public Service in appointing political stooges to some of the highest jobs in the country. There is no doubt that there is great unrest and uncertainty and that this lack of confidence has developed in the nation. There is no integrity in the Government. Dependability and reliability seem to be going out of Government today. We seem to have left the era when stability and honesty were the important features of government and when we could take the word of the government. But today, this Government seems to pour out one statement after another contradicting itself. It does not seem to care. Today, when the Opposition moves a vote of censure in the Government, the Prime Minister does not even have the decency to come into the House to answer it. 
So far as the  Deputy  Prime Minister is concerned, we know that it is only the end that matters for him. For him, the end justifies the means. He will contradict himself and refute statements. We have seen the nauseating experience of him going to the United States of America- to Wall Street- begging and pleading for money when nobody has been more vitriolic of these people over the years than the  Deputy  Prime Minister. We have very great disturbances and discontent in the defence services of this country. Some of the rumours that are from the defence Services are quite alarming. We see our defence Services running downhill and the trade unions having a greater influence on Government decisions. The members of the Australian Labor Party are nothing more than puppets for the decisions of their trade union leaders. This is not government. It is not giving leadership. This is just leading the country to anarchy which must eventually follow the high rate of inflation which we are developing at the moment. 
But it is economic mismanagement that is causing great discontent. We have economic mismanagement with high interest rates, unemployment, costs and prices going up and it is becoming impossible for young people to obtain a home. The Prime Minister, through his ineptitude and bungling, has put the Government, the 
Parliament and the nation in a ridiculous position. We have a Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in whom the Prime Minister no longer has confidence. How can the Parliament have confidence in the Government when there is a charge that the national economy has been brought to this uneasy position because of the Treasurer, a Treasurer who still remains in office? How can we have confidence in a government when the Prime Minister leaves that Treasurer in office for some unknown time and now puts another man in his position, a man of whom he is fearful and about whom he is concerned? We have the Treasurer-designate already telling the world what is wrong with the present Treasurer's policies and what he is going to do to fix them up. If we have to go through this ridiculous performance why is the Prime Minister not game enough, sensible enough, to get the mess straightened out quickly instead of leaving the whole country up tn the air with 2 Ministers, one whom the Prime Minister does not support and one, as I said, whom the Prime Minister is scared of? 
In this whole sordid episode, which has seen the Prime Minister acting in the most shameful and reprehensible way to one of his most senior and formerly trusted colleagues, we have had a demonstration of the Government's complete helplessness in managing its own internal affairs, let alone the affairs of the nation which are in a desperate position today and which need strong and sound leadership- courageous leadership. But we are not getting that from this Prime Minister who seems to duck the nasty problems, the difficult problems, within his own Party. How can this Parliament or this nation have any trust in a Prime Minister who has acted in such a deceitful way with such a shabby political mess as he made out of the disposing of his present Treasurer? 
A month ago the Prime Minister made the socalled facetious remark about the Treasurer's position. We all know that it was not facetious; it was a remark calculated deliberately to begin the process of undermining the Treasurer's position. Anyone with a sense of loyalty to a colleague and any sense of decency and fair play would have had the courage to face the Treasurer man to man, but instead we have had the charade going on for weeks of the Prime Minister pretending to protect and defend the Treasurer while all the time planning to knife him in the back. The Prime Minister has deliberately misled this House and the nation. He tells us now that he decided three or four weeks ago to sack the Treasurer. Yet only the week before last the 
Prime Minister stood in this House and said that everything the Treasurer had done had expressed the decisions of the Government. He made that point over and over again. The Prime Minister's whole approach was an attempt to make the House believe that he supported the Treasurer and had no intention of sacking him. 
We now know that he intended all along to get rid of the Treasurer. He did not have the courage to do it openly but he cunningly, to coin a phrase, allowed a disgusting whispering campaign against the Treasurer so that it would undermine him.  Mr Speaker,  this is important. In linking the Treasurer so strongly with every Government decision, in saying that there had not been one Government decision in which the Treasurer was not involved, the Prime Minister has condemned his own Government out of his own mouth. The Treasurer, according to the Prime Minister, was involved in every decision. The Treasurer has now been sacked. This is nothing less than an outright acknowledgment by the Prime Minister that the Government's decisions have been bad decisions and that the Treasurer, who was part of every one of those decisions, has been sacrificed and has had to carry the odium for the mismanagement and the bad decisions of this Government. How can there be any confidence in the Government in these circumstances? 
What finally pushed the Prime Minister to the brink after letting the Treasurer suffer such a cruel publicity campaign was the pressure that the new Treasurer put on the Prime Minister. Why did the Prime Minister move? He moved because the Deputy Prime Minister gave him the option to move or else. This has established once and for all the authority of the Deputy Prime Minister. The Prime Minister apparently will be nothing more than the titular head of this Government. In pushing the Prime Minister to the brink the new Treasurer has even more strongly asserted his dominance over the Prime Minister and has established his superiority over him. This victory by the new Treasurer over the Prime Minister has tremendous significance for this nation, for the Government and for the Australian Labor Party- significance which we will come to understand better as time proceeds. 
Why did the Prime Minister decide in the first place to sack the Treasurer? The reason for the Treasurer's sacking is the same reason that has forced the Opposition to move this motion against the Government. This Government's economic policies have brought this nation to the edge of real disaster. These policies have brought personal disaster to many thousands of Australians, so much so that this Government is simply unfit to remain in charge of the nation's affairs. It has proved itself unworthy to continue in that position. Any Labor member who votes against this motion and who supports the Government will be a traitor to his own conscience, knowing that the Government has caused so much economic and social disruption and destruction. 
This Government has lost control of itself and of the economy. The nation is gripped by the most savage inflation we have ever seen. The Government tries, quite dishonestly, to blame the international economic climate for Australia's domestically generated inflation. It has tried to deceive the Australian people by refusing to acknowledge our insulation from international cost rises, especially in oil, and in all the other commodities in which Australia has a tremendous price and supply advantage over other countries. Inflation is getting up into the middle 20s on a percentage scale. This is a shameful and damaging situation for which this Government must accept the major part of the blame. It must accept the blame because it lacks the courage to do the things that have to be done if inflation is to be arrested. 
How can there be any confidence in a government which tries to blame the Treasury for Australia's economic crisis? The Prime Minister's claim that the Government did not know that things were deterioriating at such a rapid rate, because the Treasury did not tell the Government soon enough, is an admission of the Government's incompetence. The Prime Minister must have been the only person in Australia who did not know how quickly the economy was running down and the serious situation into which we were getting. The Opposition for many months has been urging the Government to respond to the growing crisis. But we have been branded by the Prime Minister as prophets of doom and rumour mongers, even traitors. 
Australia's inflation and unemployment are largely the result of the Government's own actions or inaction. It has worsened the situation through currency, tariff and prices action, and failed to respond to the inflation problem. Once the Prime Minister begins blaming a very responsible Department for his own inadequacies and the inadequacies of his Government, the effects on the standing and morale of the whole Public Service become very serious. The Government has shown itself to have lost control and the Prime Minister has shown, by his own admission of his ignorance of the extent of the deepening economic crisis, his unfitness to continue as Prime Minister and for his Government to remain in office. As long as this Government does remain in office, especially under a Treasurer who knows that uncontrolled inflation is the quickest way to bring about the social and economic chaos that will allow him to pursue his goal of social revolution, this nation will suffer worsening inflation. 
Unemployment is reaching heights that no one thought possible in Australia. Under sound economic management it would not have happened. But we cannot have sound economic management while a socialist Government continues to pursue its philosophy in such damaging ways. We cannot have sound economic management while a socialist Government, led by a dedicated socialist revolutionary, bashes the productive sector of the economy, penalises those who save, and attacks those who invest in private enterprise. We cannot have sound economic management by a government whose record of internal dissention contradiction and instability is as bad as the record of this Government. We cannot, in the name of common humanity, allow to remain in charge of the economy this Government which is causing such massive unemployment, the most dehumanising of all human conditions in a country that normally has offered the best living conditions and the best employment opportunities of any country. 
The record of this Government in economic management is a shocking one. We saw this year the most inflationary Budget imposed on an already dangerously inflationary situation. Shortly before that, we were presented with a set of measures claimed by the Treasurer to be antiinflationary and, a day later, by the new Treasurer not to be anti-inflationary. Later still we had the Prime Minister come into the House and demonstrate his abysmal lack of expertise and his utter disregard for the inflationary crisis by bringing down still further measures which can only pour petrol on the flames of any inflation that we have already. How can we learn whether the Prime Minister is genuine in his handling of economic affairs when he has not even the decency to come into this House and enter the debate? He will spend most of his time overseas jaunting around while the economy gets into a worse and worse situation. 
This Government has shown that it is very brave when it comes to hijacking the sound and logical economic policies of the Opposition, but it is gutless when it comes to doing the hard things. It is easy to cut taxes, but it is hard to cut spending. This Government cannot meet the challenge. It does not deserve to remain in office. This Governmernt has forfeited the right to hold the confidence of the House and the people of Australia.  Sir, we  have had the example of the so-called tax cuts. They are very interesting if one looks at them closely because one will see that the tax cuts for the low income group- those below $5,000 per annum- are between 5 per cent and 6 per cent. Measured against the rate of inflation, which is running at between 20 per cent and 25 per cent, these cuts will allow for adjustment in costs in one quarter only. If one looks closely at the tax cuts one will find that those earning above $5,000 per annum- those in the bracket between $6,000 per annum and $ 1 1 ,000 per annum- will pay marginally a higher percentage of taxation on each additional $1 they earn above $6,000. So, it is deceitful and dishonest for the Government to claim that these are tax cuts. 
If this Government thinks that it can get the support of the trade union movement by such a deceitful means of presenting taxation cuts, it is deluding itself. This Government is deceiving those people whom it claims to represent. The genuine trade union member today is in the earning bracket over $5,000. per annum. Yet each person earning between $6,000 per annum and $1 1,000 per annum will pay proportionally more in taxation on the money they earn in that bracket than they would previously have done. In other words, the incentive to work harder and to earn more is being destroyed by this socialist Government which wants to kill the incentive of people to save and to invest and also to kill encouragement of the private sector of the community which is so vital to the dynmamic nation that we have known in the past. This Government does not deserve the confidence of the Australian people. It can no longer blame anybody else. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
What is the estimated (a) annual volume of gas expected to be carried by the Gidgealpa to Sydney pipeline in the first full year of operation and (b) annual market growth for natural gas so transmitted to Sydney over the decade following the first full year of pipeline construction. 
If these estimates are available, will he table the basis for them. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I believe that there has been correspondence between the State Premiers and the Prime Minister on this matter and for that reason I ask the question. The Prime Minister will be aware that funds have been provided by the Australian Government over the years to assist the States of Queensland and New South Wales in their efforts to control the damage caused to the cattle industry by ticks. I ask the Prime Minister whether the Government has discontinued this assistance and, if so, why? Is the Prime Minister aware that there is serious concern in the 2 States about the effect of the Government's decision to end the provision of funds not only on the existing programs to control and eradicate ticks, but also on the employment situation with 225 employees of the Board of Tick Control in New South Wales facing retrenchment if funds are not provided? I ask the Prime Minister whether the Government will reconsider this matter. 
-I think it is very relevant. 
I wish to join in this debate and to give support to the Dairy Adjustment Bill that is before the House. We have listened with a good deal of interest to the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie).  He seems to be taking a new lease of life in rural affairs these days. I do not know whether it is the chilly political wind that is blowing in Tasmania or the hot breath of farmers on his neck that has provoked this new sense of keenness about the problems of rural industries, particularly the dairy industry. I have never seen another Bill have such a long gestation period as the Bill before us. There has been huffing and puffing, trumpeting and fanfares about what the Government is going to do to assist dairy farm reconstruction, and the provisions that it will make for dairy farmers who are cream suppliers to enable them to convert to bulk milk. The Government has been talking about this for at least 12 months. 
-The Government certainly has been talking about it for a long time. The official announcement may have been made in May but even then the whole dairy industry in Australia thought that it was to apply from that period. Every member from a dairying electorate would have had representations made to him about how the scheme works and how it applies. People have been trying desperately to make a decision as to whether they should remain in the industry or go out of it. I have written letters to the Minister but I have had no explanation back from him as to how the scheme works. At long last, the Bill has come forward. I welcome it. But I want to put forward the qualification that the presentation of this legislation, which is good, after all the propaganda that has been engaged in to try to camouflage the very destructive decisions that the Government has made, is a poor and pitiful way of giving help to the industry. 
Basically, this Bill represents a further refinement and adaptation of legislation that the previous Liberal-Country Party Government brought in. There is nothing new about it. There is an extension of previous ideas. I was responsible for introducing on behalf of the previous Government the dairy farm reconstruction scheme. It took many years to gain acceptance both from the industry and State Governments. I believe that there was unnecessary delay in those days. That scheme was introduced and this Bill, I think through the light of experience, refines the scheme, takes out some of the difficulties and inconsistencies and gives greater advantage in areas where it was found that help was needed. This Bill contains a provision to provide interest free money for those farmers who want to change over to the supply of bulk milk. This was a policy decision of the Liberal-Country Party Government during the 1972 election campaign. We announced that $ 10m would be provided for this purpose. It has taken the present Administration 2 years to implement that idea. There has been a tremendous amount of damage and loss of confidence in the industry in the intervening time when farmers hoped that they might have been given help to undertake the conversion. 
It is an expensive operation for people to undertake. A good many of the dairy farmers throughout the country are in receipt of low incomes compared with the incomes received by other people in the community. Dairy farmers work very hard and long hours. There are not many people in the community today who are prepared to work the sorts of hours and under the conditions that dairy farmers work. I think that it is about time - 
-Yes, as the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  mentions, there is no wage indexation for that group of people. It is a pity that there is not indexation for them in order to give them a more comparable reward for their efforts. This is an important sector of the Australian economy. Over the years, dairy farmers have made a major contribution to decentralisation, to giving employment to people and to rearing good hard working families. If the members of those families have not gone onto the land, they have gone to the cities and elsewhere. But they have learned how to work. They know what standards and working conditions are all about, how to earn a decent and fair living, and how to give a fair day's work for a fair day's pay. The dairy farmers, along with other primary producers, have been the salt of this nation. 
But dairy production is going down in this country. This must not be discounted as something rather trivial. Dairy production in this country totalled 170,000 tons last year, which was a low production year in comparison with previous years. It is expected to be 150,000 tons this year. If this trend continues, it will not be too many years before Australia becomes a importer of dairy products. I do not think that is in the long term interests of this nation. I think that if we have a capacity to do so, we ought to try to be self-sufficient in dairy products so that we can guarantee a supply of milk and the production of all the other products for which the dairy industry is responsible. 
I regret to say that the Bill before us seems to have missed one section of the industry which has been asking for assistance. 1 refer to factory funds. The Bill provides for funds to be made available to factories for the collection of bulk deliveries. But if factories are to rationalise their production programs and to replace obsolete machinery they desperately need the assistance which they find their income earning capacitythis applies to all of them- is not sufficient to provide. They have made many requests to the Government. The Government has been giving them encouragement that it will do something. It was expected in the industry that the legislation would come forward this session to help dairy factories. However, such provision is not contained in this legislation. It could have been included. It could have been just another clause in the Bill. For that reason, we in the Opposition are moving an amendment. I hope that the Government will give consideration to this amendment. 
This section of the industry represents a pretty important integral part of the whole operation of trying to make dairying more viable. The factories are a composite part of this industry and if they can withstand the challenges of competition and the cost-price squeeze then everybody is in a better position. The dairying industry has been going through a very harsh period in recent years. I think this is demonstrated by the number of people who have left the industry. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Wilmot, said that about 28,000 people have left the rural areas. I know that in the last year alone in Victoria something like 17,000 dairy farms went out of production. That is an enormous number in what is really the dairy producing State of Australia. I would like to see this trend arrested because it is not protecting us or giving us any security for the future in being able to meet our domestic needs. 
Of course, this trend is diminishing our capacity to meet our export requirements overseas. What is happening is that people have moved out of the dairying industry into beef production. Naturally, many of these people have been very small farmers. 
That is absolutely right. They have gone out into beef production and they find that they are in an impossible economic position now that there has been a complete collapse of cattle prices. Some of these people would like to go back into dairying. Unfortunately, this legislation does not provide for them to do so. I would like to see the Government consider changing the legislation so that people who, within the last couple of years at any rate, have been dairy farmers and who went out of the industry into beef production, thinking that it was a more stable and viable industry, but who now want to come back to dairying can do so. These people who have the basic facilities for dairying- the bales and the farm layout- ought to be allowed to have access to these funds. I think the Bill should contain a provision that anybody who has been dairying within the last two or three years- certainly the last 2 years that the present Administration has been talking about, at any rate- ought to be allowed to return to the industry. But as I understand the legislation, if a person has gone out of dairying, even for a short period, that disqualifies him for benefits under this legislation. 
On the north coast of New South Wales in areas such as the electorate of Cowper and my electorate, that of Richmond, there has been tremendous flooding. Those farmers who. had dairies on the flat country have been forced out of production by economic circumstances. Many of these people have come to me and said that they would stay in the business if they could get access to funds to buy a bulk vat, for instance, or to put in an access road to bring their dairies up to the standard required by the milk authority concerned. When I have made inquiries on their behalf I have found that they would be disqualified from the scheme because they had given up dairying- were forced out of it- because of seasonal conditions. I would like to see some compassion shown for these people. 
Probably one of the most worrying features of dairying- I speak as one who had had some experience- is the continuation of orderly marketing schemes for dairy products in this country. I refer to the stabilistaion schemes that have operated. When the present administration decided to eliminate the dairy industry subsidy and to phase it out over a 3-year period it removed the linchpin which holds together the whole of orderly marketing of dairy products in this country. Today that scheme is under challenge; it is under question. I have a very great fear that if there were a major disparity between overseas prices and local prices for those dairy products that come under the stabilisation arrangement there would be a complete breakdown because there would be nothing to encourage people to remain part of the orderly marketing arrangements. That would throw the whole industry into absolute chaos. It would be a situation of dog eat dog with producers trying to get the best of the local market. 
I have just about had enough of politicians in this House and the media criticising forms of assistance and bounty subsidies to rural industries, because in areas where these forms of assistance have been given there has been a real need for it. It is not right to say that the dairy industry subsidy is merely a handout to dairy farmers. If that accusation is made, it could be similarly claimed that it is a subsidy to the Australian consumers which helps to keep the price down. But I argue neither of these points. I say that this subsidy, which has applied since the Second World War, had developed into an essential ingredient of orderly and stabilised marketing. It is the sweetener that encourages people to remain part of the scheme. Now that it is being taken out any small factory operators who can see the advantage of exploiting section 92 of the Constitution by selling across State borders where there can be no control will do so. That will bring about the collapse of orderly marketing. Those people, mostly uninformed or pseudo-academics, who criticise forms of assistance and orderly and stabilised marketing schemes in Australia ought to look at the facts. Wherever we have orderly marketing schemes today the Australian consumer is getting an enormous advantage. 
The relative price of butter and cheese in Australia is much lower than in other comparable countries. In Australia we pay, I think, 70c a pound for butter. In Europe and the United States of America the price ranges from $1 to $ 1.50 a pound. The only reason why the price is kept at that level is that we have had this pricing arrangement. The cost increase of dairy products to the Australian consumer is much lower than in most other areas of consumer goods. The actual percentage increase has been lower because of this orderly marketing arrangement. 
Take sugar, for instance. I am sure the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  will agree that the former Government used to be criticised for establishing the CommonwealthQueensland Sugar Agreement. It was claimed that it was compelling Australians to buy dear sugar. What we did was to guarantee the Australian consumers reliable supplies at a dependable price. The people knew exactly what they would have to pay and everybody could gear up to it. As a result, there has not been an increase in the wholesale price of sugar for the last 7 years. The industry has received the same price for sugar sold on the Australian domestic market for 7 years, because of an orderly marketing arrangement. The price of sugar in Australia today is probably the cheapest anywhere in the world. The same story can be told about the wheat industry, for which we have also had orderly marketing arrangements. But all the pundits, the Press and other people - 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) What further extensions of the projected transcontinental pipeline grid are definitely intended after the Gidgealpa to Sydney arm is completed. 
When is the construction of the pipeline from Gidgealpa to Sydney expected to be completed. 
What is the estimated total cost of the Gidgealpa to Sydney pipeline installation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the details of the amounts which make up the total of $488m in outlays on rural assistance in the 1 974-75 Budget, as mentioned by him in his speech to the Australian Farmers' Federation in Canberra on 29 October 1974. 
What are the details of the corresponding figures in the 1973-74 Budget. 
I ask the Prime Minister: If inflation is the most serious and urgent problem facing the nation and if he believes that a united national effort is needed if we are to meet and overcome this problem does he accept that if the Australian people are to be united and determined in the fight against inflation they must be told the truth, however hard that might be, about the causes of inflation and about what must be done to deal with it? I ask the Prime Minister whether he will bring to an end the campaign which he and his Ministers are at present conducting to depict Australia's domestic problems as being simply a part of a worldwide problem. Does he not realise that every time he or one of his Ministers presents this argument they are only undermining the will of people to fight inflation and sapping their determinatin to get down to the real causes of the problem which, in the main, are of domestic origin? Finally, will the Prime Minister tell the nation that Australia is well insulated from the international economic forces affecting many other countries and will he call on all Australians to join him and his Government in a resolute attack on a problem we have largely brought upon ourselves and which only we can solve? 
In speaking on the Export Market Development Grants Bill I want to say that it is pleasing that the Government has at last brought forward proposals to give an incentive to encourage the export of Australian manufactured goods. For far too long manufacturing industries generally have been in a state of complete uncertainty as to what the Government's attitude is to be in relation to a continuing program of giving incentives in this area. In the previous Liberal-Country Party Government we did develop a most worthwhile and effective incentive scheme which did a tremendous amount to encourage production especially of manufactured goods for export by Australia. Indeed it helped to develop Australia's reputation as an exporter not only of primary and mining products but also of manufactured products. The great advantage of manufacturing industries in becoming more involved in the export market is not that this just widens the base of our export potential and therefore gives us a high degree of security and stability, but, for manufacturing industries, the whole basis of success in their operations, resulting in their becoming more viable, is volume of production. The more that can be sold to markets other than Australia, the greater their continuing throughput and the greater can their unit costs of production be reduced. 
One of the serious consequences of the Government's policy over the past 12 months especially its impromptu methods of revaluing the currency has been to hit very hard at manufacturing industries which, in the period of the regime of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government, had built up quite an extensive export outlet. Now, because it has become difficult to sustain export performance in those outlets operations have been reduced. Their whole Australian operations then become a rather doubtful economic proposition. When that happens, people must be dismissed, expansion programs are reduced and so stagnancy develops within the area of secondary industry. 
I do not think anyone will challenge me when I say that there is tremendous apprehension and concern throughout the manufacturing areas of Australia as to what lies for them in the future. Our scheme which was a fairly sophisticated scheme was costing the then Government $ 100m a year. I do not think $1 of that sum was wasted. Any money that was paid by way of government assistance was more than doubly repaid in the effectiveness it provided in developing manufacturing industry in Australia, giving us this very sound industrial base. But, today, we have a new scheme. I suppose we must be grateful for any mercies shown by the Government towards the private sector. But really, the scheme is completely inadequate. It does not really meet the needs and it will only partially provide the impetus which these manufacturing industries require and which over many years creates such a worthwhile export performance. What is given now to many industries will be more or less useless because of the limitations that are imposed. I know that the Government has a fetish about giving too much to big companies based on its philosophy that anything that is big is bad; therefore we cut it off. 
Well, government monopoly is honourable at all times and government monopolies can do no wrong. 
-There we are: The good old socialist jargon- the people's this and the people's that. Looking at the people's Post Office these days, we wonder whether it is a very efficient undertaking. This legislation as now drawn excludes the bigger operators or the people whose performance is accelerating at such a rate that they will be discouraged from going any further. Thus, half the effectiveness of the program is cut out. This idea that too much is given to the big operator is false thinking. It is fair to lodge that accusation only if that assistance is depriving smaller enterprises of obtaining their fair share. In the previous scheme that operated, not one small company was deprived if it had an export performance comparable with what a large company had. It was operated on a rolling basis. In other words, a company had to keep improving its export performance if it qualified for the rebate. The present scheme seems to me to be one in which a great deal of discretion will be used in selecting what companies will qualify under the arrangement proposed. 
I have been looking at the possibility of putting forward some amendments which will make this Bill very much more sensible and wider in its application. These would not be amendments that would place an onerous additional financial burden on the Government. I hope that, within the very limited time that I have available, I might be able to draft these amendments for consideration in the Senate, although with the very rushed program I have not had a chance to formulate them for presentation to the House today. I do put the Government on warning that if we can get time to draft these rather modest amendments, but amendments which will make the Bill much more effective, they will be presented in the Senate. I hope that the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who has been talking regularly to people involved in exporting and telling them that he is sympathetic to developing export incentives for industry, might give consideration to some of our amendments. 
This scheme really is far too limited. It provides $27. 5m to encourage exports from this country. The scheme operated by the previous Government would have provided $ 100m. Quite clearly, a number of people who obtained a benefit will no longer receive that benefit. If ever there was a country that should be giving these incentives today, from the point of view of increasing our overseas revenue and, more importantly, giving encouragement to manufacturing industries to keep their operations viable and active it is Australia especially right now when unemployment is developing and when employment opportunities, particularly in this important employment area, are being put at risk. I hope that the Government will give a great deal of consideration to the amendments that we may bring forward. 
Today we will be supporting this legislation through this House with the one qualification that, as I have mentioned, this afternoon I hope we will have time to iron out our proposed amendments. This Bill is a rather complex piece of legislation. It provides quite a new means of providing incentives. It is a most selective means. A board will be set up. It will not be autonomous. It seems that it will operate at the discretion of the relevant Minister. A scheme which is not based on any set formula is always open to favouritism and to patronage. I would hope that we never will have to challenge the Government on being unduly discriminatory or giving patronage to people because this is the way it will be operating. Our previous scheme operated on a mathematical basis through which manufacturers obtained a rebate on their payroll tax. It worked extremely successfully. Anybody who has been a part of that scheme and who belongs to the great manufacturing area of Australia, which after all is the biggest employment area, will say that the former scheme worked extremely successfully and that a great deal of merit should go to the previous Liberal-Country Party Government for the introduction of that scheme. If we are returned to office and this legislation as it now stands is still on the statute book, we will consider it quite inadequate. We will be reviewing it with a view to making what is proposed a much more successful scheme to provide incentives to encourage exports by Australian manufacturing industries. 
In replying to the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  relating to the Loans (Australian Industry Development Corporation) Bill I say that we in the Opposition have looked very closely at this Bill. Whilst we do not have any objection to its intention in principle, we have suggested that certain safeguards should be put in by way of amendment to ensure that this additional raising power, with the Australian Government guarantee, does not allow the Corporation to act in a way which would give it a preferred position in raising money and lending it on the Australian market. I believe that the Government has circulated 2 proposed amendments which meet the wishes of the Opposition. One amendment will change clause 7 ( 1 ) of the Bill. It provides that the terms and conditions may be as the Treasurer determines. The proposed amendment which has been circulated makes it quite clear that any terms and conditions can only be such that the Corporation is not given an advantage by way of any Government subsidy or assistance in lending money on more attractive terms and conditions than those on which the Corporation raises money. 
The second proposed amendment deals with the borrowing powers of the Corporation under the Principal Act which was brought down by the previous Government. We provided for a capital of $50m. Against that we allowed a borrowing ratio of 5 to 1 which enabled some $250m to be raised against that capital. However, the main purpose of this Bill is to allow the Corporation to borrow from overseas, those borrowings being underwritten by the Commonwealth Government. In other words, an Australian Government guarantee will be provided. There is some doubt in the present legislation as to whether the $250m provides for additional borrowings over and above what the Corporation has already borrowed or whether that is the ceiling which applies in the principal Act. 
This proposed amendment, which has been circulated and which we accept, makes it quite clear that the limits of the borrowing will be five times the capital of the Corporation and that it can in no way be exceeded at any time. When the Opposition parties were in Government they were responsible for the introduction of legislation dealing with the Australian Industry Development Corporation. We believed that this legislation was essential to enable Australian enterprise to maintain and to develop an Australian equity without having to rely on overseas equity capital. There is a famous saying of a former Minister for Trade,  Sir John  McEwen. He said that he was very much against selling off parts of the farm at a time. The idea of the Australian Industry Development Corporation was to assist those people who wanted to retain their Australian equity in enterprises across this nation. I believe that the Corporation, with those principles in mind, has fulfilled a very useful role. 
I think it is also fair to say that today there is a good deal of caution on the part of the Opposition as to how this Corporation might be used by a socialist government such as the one in power at the moment. The Corporation could be used to intrude unduly into Australian history by having more and more government involvement at the expense of private enterprise. For these reasons there have been discussions with the Government to tighten this piece of legislation. We requested, if not demanded, that the 2 amendments which have now been circulated by the Government be carried in this House. If they had not been circulated in this House we would have seen that they were moved in the Senate to ensure that limitations and restraints were placed upon a government which does not seem to be snowing too much consideration for propriety or ehtics in the way it is administering legislation today. I do not think it is unfair for me to make these accusations. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has been intruding Commonwealth finance into the mining enterprises. Anybody who has looked at the Wambo affair must agree that it is one of the most disgusting and disgraceful affairs that has ever come before this Parliament. More of the moment is the Mary Kathleen uranium affair. The Commonwealth practically pushed itself into a position of underwriting a new call for capital by Mary Kathleen Investment Pty Ltd. When it was found that the shares were not fully subscribed on the stock exchange the Government said that it was going to move in and take up the deficiency, which accounted for about 42 per cent of the total. Only later was it discovered that the full information had not been given to the stock exchange and the Australian public. The actions of the Government are worse than those of the sharpshooters and the slickies we have seen operating on the stock exchange over the last few years who caused an investigation into the activities of the stock exchange. This is the most deceitful and scurrilous thing that a national government could ever do. It allows a parcel of shares to go on the market. Because the people think that it is an unprofitable venture to invest in they do not subscribe. The Commonwealth claims that it can then take up the bulk of the shares, but in this case we found that new contracts had been negotiated for the sale of uranium overseas, making it a much more successful venture. But the Minister did not have the decency to tell the public what the true circumstances were. Is it any wonder that the Opposition acts very cautiously. 
The  DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member for Prospect will cease interjecting. 
-Listen to the honourable member for Prospect. He is scraping the bottom of the barrel. We see the Labor Party in desperate circumstances today. I would have thought that the honourable member with a bit of commonsense would have known that the poor Country Party is always struggling for funds. It certainly never received any money. If any Party received money from the multinationals during the last election campaign it was the ALP. We have heard so much about the legislation that the Government is to bring in to deal with multi-nationals, but when the Commonwealth Electoral Bill came into the Parliament it contained nothing about subscriptions to political parties. We know why. The main benefactor is the Labor Party. It has been screwing the arm of every major business company across Australia to get funds to keep the Party going. Look at the Curtin House appeal. The Government now says that anybody who makes a donation to the appeal can claim the donation as a tax deduction. The Treasurer- I am not too sure whether he is Treasurer today or not- said the other day that donations to the McEwen House appeal were tax deductible. Let me tell the Australian public listening to the broadcast that not one person who invested in McEwen House claimed a tax deduction. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture. Is the Minister aware of indications that the $20m provided by the Government through the Development Bank for lending to beef producers over 10-15 years at 1 1.5 per cent interest is not meeting the urgent need of the industry, which is for immediate short term carry-on finance? Will the Government urgently consider providing carry-on finance at more appropriate interest rates? Will it consider my suggestion that short term money should be provided through the State rural reconstruction agencies at the same rate as now applies to debt reconstruction loans advanced through those agencies, that is, 4 per cent? Will it also consider the suggestion that there be at least one year's holiday from repayments pending a review of the market in one year's time? Finally, does the Minister agree that if easy carry-on finance is not soon made available outright grants will have to be made available to the industry as the crisis worsens? 
It is a little sad to see the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  this once socalled gladiator of the ordinary working man and woman and of the trade union movement acting as an apologist and making excuses for the Government's appalling policy in allowing 5.2 per cent of Australia's population to become unemployed. There are 311 000 people- one in twenty- out of a job in this country. These apologies and excuses expose the sham of the man who claims that he is genuinely interested in the welfare of the ordinary working man and woman. A year ago, as the crisis was worsening, in trying to show that he was true blue to the Labor Party's beliefs he came forward and said: If the unemployment figure should ever reach 250 000 I would resign. I am a man of principle. That is the last thing I would ever stand for'. There should be an election. The Government should go to the people to prove whether our policies are right or wrong. 
The very fact that the Government has had to reverse decisions on a multitude of items proves and exposes once and for all how very wrong it has been. This Government is the cause of the economic sickness of this country. This Government is the cause of people not being able to get a job. Unemployment is the most alien thing that there is to the Australian society and no government of this country can be entrusted with the responsibility ofthe nation's management unless it can keep unemployment down to reasonable levels. Nobody would say that when unemployment reaches the figure that it is today a government has control of the situation. It is all right for the Minister for Labor and Immigration to espouse the international situation and to talk about how the ripples come across the water and effect Australia. What about the ripples from New Zealand? What about the unemployment in that country? There is virtually none in New Zealand yet New Zealand has the same sort of influences that we have in Australia. In fact we ought to be better situated than the people of New Zealand. 
What has caused this situation? It has been caused by a new government obsessed with the political purpose of foisting socialism upon the Australian community. Irrespective of the consequences to different sections of the community it is going to push ahead with that purpose. The consequences now are starting to be revealed. They are being revealed in the frightful social upheaval that is going on across the country, with hundreds of thousands of men and women, young girls and boys, not being able to get a job and facing a bleak future. When this Government came to office it thought that money did not matter, that it could just spend money right and left. It created liquidity pressures in the community and inflation started to move. The Minister for Labor and Immigration was the man who led the Public Service in demanding increased wages and all types of conditions which put intolerable pressures on the rest of the community thus reducing its capacity to employ people. Profits were reduced and the capacity of the private sector to reinvest and to expand was slowly compressed until today it is not a case of being able to put some people on but a case of trying to survive and having to unload some of those already employed. 
The Government's vindictiveness to the private sector has crushed the capacity of the private sector to continue expanding, to be productive and to make wealth for this country, the very lifeblood of which is providing jobs for people across the nation. The Government's vindictiveness has been highlighted by its policies for rural industries, mining industries and manufacturing industries. Today, as the Government about-turns, as it makes plausible remarks and as it pours out rhetoric to the effect that it has seen its mistakes and is going to mend its ways, it is up to the Australian people to make a judgment on whether they really believe the Government. Is the Government going to abandon its policy of socialism? Of course it is not. A political party so entrenched with the left-wing movement and the pro-communist element will never deviate. If it is going to reverse policy, if it is saying that it has been wrong, then it is responsible for the present situation as we have been saying for so long. 
It is of no use for the Minister for Labor and Immigration to say that the Senate is the cause of this and that there is a threat of a possible double dissolution of the Parliament and another election. The Senate is a fully constituted House elected by the Australian people. When the Australian people elected the full Senate- not half of the Senate but the full Senate- in May last year they made a decision that a brake had to be put on the excesses of this Government. I think it is a pity that the Senate did not act as a brake a bit earlier in relation to a good many more things about which the Government is now having to reverse decisions. The Government abused the Senate for making threats, thus causing the Government to reverse decisions, but it seems to be getting the message that these things just have to be done if there is to be any salvation for the workforce of this country. The situation is becoming hopeless. It is getting worse and worse as the supporters of the Government demonstrate that they just do not have the capacity to manage and are not qualified to hold the all important office of looking after this country. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration has made plausible remarks about wanting to look after the work force. For almost 12 months I have criticised him for cutting out the nonmetropolitan rural unemployment relief scheme. I highlighted how in country areas, including my own electorate, the unemployment figures were going up and up. All I received from him were smart Alec replies that it did not matter, that the Government would look after it sooner or later or that the unemployed were better off in the hands of the Government than in the hands of anybody else. Of course, it was not until the total situation throughout Australia reached such a low ebb that the Government eventually brought in the regional employment development scheme. But the non-metropolitan unemployment relief scheme never should have been abandoned. It was a good scheme. I believe that it was an even better scheme than the one the Government has brought in today because it gave local government authorities the chance of being able to distribute money within their own areas and the distribution was done equitably according to the unemployment situation throughout the nation. 
Today we have a multitude of schemes being brought forward and there is utter confusion. We have this sort of facade, this cosmetic treatment just to try to absorb some of the unemployed, which is well and good and nobody wants to criticise it. But the relief is only temporary. What the Government has to do is start getting confidence back into this nation. It has to start to encourage the productive sector of the community to want to get out and work, save and invest. That philosophy should be pursued with all strength and endeavour by the Government by taking convincing action and not by attacking the mining companies, by bringing in policies for taking over the ownership of the energy resources of this country or by a national economic planning department which is going to direct everybody what to do. The Government has to make free enterprise work and encourage foreign investment to come back into this country and invest money in it. Of course, the Government has reversed some of its decisions in this respect. It has shown how cynical and hypocritical it is by going overseas and trying to get money from overseas. But it is too late for that. The damage has been done. 
It seems quite clear that there is only one way in which this country will really get back on the rails and get the work force fully employed. That is by bringing back confidence by putting in charge a government which can really manage the economy. The Liberal and Country Parties have a record that shows that they have a capacity and an ability to be able to do that. In 23 years of a Liberal-Country Party government we never saw unemployment like we see it now. Inflation was kept to a low level. The housing situation was at least contained and people had a chance of getting a home. Today the whole situation has fallen apart. Nobody should be more ashamed of having let down the workforce and of having betrayed the trade union movement than the Minister for Labor and Immigration, who is sitting at the table. The rank and file members of the Australian Workers Union must be glad that he did not get in charge of them a few years ago. I say that a tragic situation exists today. The Government deserves to be fully condemned for allowing 5 per cent of the workforce to be unemployed. Goodness knows what the figure is going to be in another two or three months. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I would like to join in this debate and express a few remarks. I believe the debate from the Opposition side has been very adequately covered by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  who is the shadow Minister for the Northern Territory. Anyone who has been to DarwinI had the opportunity the week before last of spending a few days there and mixing with the people- cannot help but be absolutely shattered by the magnitude of the devastation. We see photographs; we hear reports; we look at the devastation on television. But there is no substitute for actually visiting and moving about through the wreckage of the city. To all of those people who have suffered so very severely I express my deepest sympathy. A visit to Darwin does give one heart. The people of Darwin have responded admiraby to the situation. They have big hearts. They are into the job of salvaging the city and making the most of the things. 
In talking to the various organisations and people in Darwin one received expressions of gratitude for the help and support that they had received from the Government and from the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson),  for the tremendous work done by MajorGeneral Stretton- for the relief funds that had been organised in the various capitals and for the contributions that had been made by the Australian public. I know I express their sentiments when I say ' thank you ' to all of those people who helped at the time when their help was desperately needed. My visit to Darwin crystallised one point, namely, the concern of the people of the city about the Darwin Reconstruction Bill which is now before the Parliament. They are very concerned as to the extent of the powers of this Bill, and just how much the legislation will involve and perhaps interfere with their freedom and their daily lives in the Northern Territory. I do not think anyone criticises the fact that the legislation has not been prepared until now. It is a complex matter to establish a commission to resurrect this large city which had a population of 40 000 people. But, by the same token, it is a fairly momentous piece of legislation which will be in operation for at least 5 years and the extent of whose powers may have a considerable bearing on political progress in the Northern Territory. Wherever I went I heard this general expression : 'Please give us, the people of Darwin, the people involved, the people who are going to be affected, time to analyse the legislation and to express points of view. We realise that in the long run the Government has to make the decisions and accept responsibility for those decisions; but we, the living people of this city, who are deeply involved with it, do have opinions and do have ideas as to how new regulations will affect us '. 
I conveyed this sentiment to the Government and I made a public announcement to the same effect. It is with a great deal of disappointment on my part that the Bill is being pushed through this House so quickly. But I have given the people of the Northern Territory an assurance that the Opposition parties in the Senate will do what they can to delay the passage of this legislation at least until next week- until the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, the Corporation of the City of Darwin and other interested bodies have had a chance to make their comments. Doing that will enable detailed amendments to be presented to the Senate for consideration. We have not had the opportunity, nor do we think it wise, to bring forward our amendments to this legislation without consultation with the people of the Northern Territory. But, as a mark of the feelings of the people in the Northern Territory, I have here a list of the telegrams that I have received in the last 24 hours. They are all expressed in the same tone. One reads: 
Protest at levels of opportunity given Darwin citizens . . . 
Another reads: 
Would you please use your influence to have copy of Darwin Reconstruction Commission Bill sent to us immediately for examination . . . 
The telegrams go on in that tone, and they are from organisations such as the Country Women's Association of Darwin, the Arts Council of the Northern Territory, citizen groups and different action groups of the city. They all express the same sentiment. I am sure that similar telegrams would have been received by the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  and by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  The people who sent these telegrams want to know just how much say their elected bodies will have. They want to know whether they will be completely dominated by this new Commission. They ask whether they will have any right of appeal. What does the present town planning ordinance mean there? It is not a slipshod sort of a document; it is their town planning ordinance. It was last brought up to date in 1 972 and it is a very comprehensive document which deals with the city of Darwin. One would wonder why anyone would want it to be scrapped or overriden. I think that it probably provides a very sound basis which could be amended or expanded. But it is not made clear just what will happen. All we know is that the Bui does give the Commission power to override completely this town planning ordinance and allow it to make its own. 
There is a great deal of concern as to what right of appeal an individual will have if he is told to get off his property. What right of appeal will there be in relation to the many things that are involved in the reconstruction of a city? I must say that when I heard some of the remarks of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  this afternoon a shudder went through me. Such a shudder must go through the people of Darwin who hear him say that this is the opportunity to build a completely new city, to get rid of all the old weaknesses and to have new buildings. That is more or less a bureaucrat's dream. It is very idealistic to want to do that, but there are people and people's properties involved and one just cannot build a new city overnight. One just cannot push people about and say: 'You cannot have this or that'. Certainly one should not be able to do that without some right to appeal, to protest and to put a second point of view. 
So I say that there is concern about many aspects of this Bill, including the structure of the Commission and the powers given to the General Manager of the Commission in relation to the  Chairman  of the Commission. There is concern about the area of authority that this new 
Commission will exercise. Is it necessary for the Commission to have power over the area within 60 kilometres of the centre of the city? Already people have been protesting that the radius ought to be limited to 40 kilometres at the most. At present the Darwin area would extend to only about 20 kilometres from the centre. Why is it necessary for the Commission to be able to exercise power over any Crown land throughout the whole of the Territory? These are some of the things that need explanation. It is not our intention to make political capital out of this legislation or out of the disaster at Darwin. It is not our intention to delay the legislation. But a piece of legislation of this magnitude needs to be examined and to be scrutinised thoroughly so that what is actually put on the statute book is the best piece of legislation we can have for the redevelopment of Darwin and the well-being of the people of Darwin. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Since the abolition of the superphosphate bounty sales of superphosphate have ceased completely. This situation does not look like improving, largely because of the 
Government's reference to the Industries Assistance Commission. Farmers will hold off purch asing superphosphate because of the possibility that they may miss out on some bounty recommendation that the Commission makes. In view of the fact that sales are down, that the agro-air industry- the people who spread superphosphatehas been brought almost to a halt and superphosphate manufacturing plants are virtually coming to a standstill, will the Government consider making a statement that any recommendation of the IAC which is accepted by the Government will be retrospective to 1 January this year? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I have been misrepresented by the Australian Broadcasting Commission as a result of remarks made by the Prime Minister at question time the other day. The Prime Minister misquoted me and the speech I made at a conference in Perth in Western Australia relating to the Opposition's pricing policy and my statements relating to crude oil in Australia. At the time I made a personal explanation explaining that the Prime Minister was dishonest and had misrepresented my position. The ABC news report mentioned the statement of the Prime Minister without the qualification that I had given in my explanation. Some people accused the ABC of being biased and when this sort of thing happens, one wonders whether it is or is not. The Minister for Transport today said that it was the policy of my Party to increase the price of crude oil by 40 per cent. 
I spoke on behalf of my Party and I corrected the misrepresentation. Of course for political purposes people exploit the situation. The media has a responsibility to at least report correctly. The policy of the Liberal and Country Parties is that there should be a review - 
I think it is necessary to explain - 
I could return to where I have been misrepresented. 
I have been misrepresented by the suggestion that what I said was policy and a statement of it. To make the record clear, what I have said in the past is that the price could be increased to some producers without an impact on the consumers. I gave as an example, and I have to continue to repeat this, that there could be a 40 per cent increase in the price to producers and that this would mean 2c to the consumers. I underlined that that was an example, saying that while it was very attractive to the producer it means little to the consumer. However, for political purposes people have tried to interpret that as being a policy and a direction. It has never been stated that way and if people continue to say these things they are being completely dishonest and misrepresenting the point of view. If the media keeps saying this, it is showing a biased attitude in its political beliefs. 
-My question, directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, concerns the recent sale of beef to Russia. I ask: What was the price per lb paid under this contract? What will be the effective return to the grower? Does the price include freight? Can he say whether those who were negotiating the contract asked the Government to consider subsidising the sale in order to ensure a greater return to the beef producer than the reportedly low return under the contract? 
This is the second time this legislation has come before the House in its present form. It was before the House at the end of last year. It was then transmitted to the Senate, but the Senate did not deal with it. I think it is necessary to say a little about the history of this legislation so that our attitudes are clearly understood. Towards the end of 1973 the then Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  introduced the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill. That legislation provided for a very extensive expansion of the operations of the AIDC, which caused concern in the Senate to such an extent that it asked that the legislation be examined by the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control. That Committee called for evidence, and in the course of it receiving evidence and in the course of public debate on the question the Minister revised the legislation and introduced new legislation the following year. That legislation was debated in the Parliament. 
The Opposition proposed a good many amendments, especially to the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill but also to the National Investment Fund Bill. Although the amendments were accepted by the Government, the Opposition made a proviso that the legislation would not have the total support of the Opposition until the Senate Select Committee 's report on the legislation was examined, just in case it recommended further amendments. However, the Government has failed to call for the report of the Senate Select Committee and has said that it regards the Senate's deferral of the legislation until the Senate Select Committee reports as a rejection of the legislation by the Senate. 
Although it is regarded in certain sections of the community as being highly contentious legislation, when it first came before the Parliament we in the Opposition were prepared to look at it in a conciliatory manner in an endeavour to improve it and not to show any undue or dogmatic opposition to it. We resolved to do that in spite of the fact that the implications of the expanded Australian Industry Development 
Corporation and National Investment Fund were awesome and put a great deal of fear into the community. There was the possibility of those bodies being used as a government instrument for furthering the socialist beliefs of a socialist government. However we tried to be as helpful and co-operative as we could with the Government. We were disappointed that the Government refused to allow the Senate Select Committee to report. So that the full facts of the way in which this Government is ignoring the proper workings of the Senate committees and the evidence and advice which they are prepared to give to the Government might be known to the Australian people I think it proper for me to read from the speech which the  chairman  of that Senate Select Committee,  Senator McAuliffe,  delivered to the Senate. He said: 
The Senate referred the amending Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill 1973 and National Investment Fund Bill 1973 to the Committee on 28 November 1973 for inquiry and report by 12 March 1974. Upon receiving this reference the Committee immediately suspended the investigations which it was undertaking at that time and despite the limited time available organised and carried out an investigation. Advertisements appeared in the daily Press on 8 and 15 December 1973 inviting submissions by 31 December 1973, and in addition the Committee approached all of the major industry and trade associations in the financial sector. The Committee received 28 formal submissions and called representatives of 12 organisations to give further oral evidence at a series of public hearings which were conducted in Canberra from 5 to 12 February prior to the prorogation of Parliament on 14 February 1974. Copies of the evidence taken are available to interested persons, firms and organisations, upon request, from the Secretary of the Committee. 
In the conduct of its inquiry the Committee took as the broad basis for its inquiry 2 aspects of its terms of reference, namely: 
the best method of mobilising Australian capital resources and attracting their commitment to national development. 
the best method of reconciling the inflow of overseas capital for Australian development with the retention of Australian ownership and control. 
He went on to say how the Commitee took a lot of evidence on these Bills. I think his speech is worth reading. He continued: 
At the same time the Committee recognised that the Bills raised issues of critical importance extending over a wide area which necessitated an examination of the Bills not only from the viewpoint of Australian ownership and control obectives but also from other aspects. These included possible Government involvement in the Australian capital market and industrial structure arising from the proposed additional powers, extended functions and privileges of the Australian Industry Development Corporation; the implications for other financial institutions in the money and capital market arising from the financing activities of the AIDC and the NIF; the consequent implications for resource use in the economy and the attainment of other economic and social objectives. 
Obviously a pretty extensive inquiry was being conducted. The  Chairman  stated further: 
Before concluding, I wish to direct the attention of the Senate to 2 events which occurred during the Committee's AIDC and NIF inquiries and which reflect adversely upon the Senate. The Committee has been criticised for not presenting a report by 12 March 1974 as requested. Such criticism ignores the fact that because of the prorogation of Parliament on 14 February the Bills lapsed and did not exist after that date. The Committee was not reconstituted again until 14 March and members were not appointed until 19 March, the same day that the AIDC and NIF Bills were again referred to the Committee for report as soon as possible. The Committee was considering a draft report, but again due to circumstances outside its control was unable to report. This was because Parliament was dissolved. 
Another aspect- I want to highlight this one- which must be commented upon was the unusual action taken by the Government in resubmitting the Bills in another place on 8 April 1974, while the Bills are still being considered by the Committee as directed by the Senate. The Committee was on the point of presenting its report when Parliament was dissolved on 11 April 1974. The AIDC and NIF Bills were again reintroduced in the other place on 16 July and during his second reading speech the Minister in charge of the Bills,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, Minister for Overseas Trade, again referred to 'a remarkable record of delay' and said 'that the Committee had not reported by 12 March nor had it reported by the time the Bills were again reintroduced, a further 27 days later'. These statements, were not in accordance with the facts of the situation and as well as being incorrect and misleading, these statements reflect adversely upon the Committee.  Mr President,  for the information of honourable senators I have prepared a list of the key dates relating to the inquiry and I seek leave to have them incorporated in Hansard. 
Does the Prime Minister recall being asked questions shortly after his Government came into office concerning security clearance for the staff of Ministers, ensuring that both international security and confidentiality of Government files were maintained? Does he recall that no clear answer was given as to whether or not he would insist on all Ministers' staffs being cleared for security? I ask him whether he recalls telling me in answer to a question: 
All that I am aware of is that my staff, the staff of my  Deputy  and the staff of the Ministers who assist us-  Senator Willesee  and  Senator Bishop-  have had the full security clearances which apply to our portfolios. I have not inquired as to other Ministers. 
Does he recall saying that he had not inquired whether any Minister's staff had access to departmental papers but that he had no doubt that papers in the hands of his Ministers or anyone else were completely secure? I ask the Prime 
Minister whether, in view of his apparent reluctance to insist on security clearance of Ministers' staffs, he will, as Prime Minister, accept full responsibility for any breach of security or scandal that occurs? 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the estimated production of crude oil from Australian oil fields during the period 1974-75 to 1984-85. 
What are the estimated consumption requirements of Australia for crude oil over this period. 
On the basis of present world market values, what would be the annual value of Australian petroleum product imports by 1984-85 on the basis of projected Australian domestic crude oil production in that year and projected domestic consumption of petroleum products in that year. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What provision has been made at Royal Australian Air Force and Royal Australian Navy airfield installations for bunker shelter for aircraft stationed at the airfields. 
If no provision has been made, are there any plans for the installation of shelters for aircraft along the lines employed by the Egyptian Air Force following their 1967 losses. 
What would be the estimated total capital cost of providing protection along the Egyptian lines for military aircraft stationed at airfields in Australia. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, we are witnessing the demise of democracy in this country. 
I am seconding the motion. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the Leader of the Country Party be not further heard. 
I commend  Mr Berinson  on being elected as  Chairman  of Committees. I am sure that he is a man of great capacity and of outstanding quality. He can be assured of cooperation provided he shows impartiality from the Chair. 

 - Mr Speaker, you have been elected to an extremely important position- the most important position of this Parliament- under very unfortunate circumstances. I congratulate you on being selected for that position. I took note today that you had the dignity to display your utter disgust and contempt for your own Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and for the performance of members of your Party to your  Speaker  by walking out of this chamber. I admire you for it. It is unfortunate that the conduct of Parliament was brought under challenge today. It is unfortunate that a man who has been liked and respected by all of us has been assassinated by the Prime Minister. I refer to the former  Speaker  of this House.  Speaker  Cope showed to this House, to Australia and to the whole British parliamentary institution around the world that he is a man of honour and dignity. Although at times he might have taken disciplinary action against me, I never held it against him because he was acting as he thought proper. But what happened today when he thought that the institution had to be defended and when his position had to be defended? He took the appropriate action, only to be deserted by his own Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the members of his own Party. It was a most deplorable performance. 
I ask you,  Mr Speaker,  having been appointed to this position, to exercise the greatest fairness between members of both sides of this Parliament. On the performance of today one is now led to believe that a person in the Opposition can be named and thrown out of this House but nobody on the Government side can be named or thrown out, in other words, that this is going to become a dictatorship led by the Prime Minister, who wants to have complete control and reign over this House. You,  Mr Speaker,  will be carrying the responsibility to see that there is impartiality in this Parliament and, unless you do so, this whole institution will be placed at risk. I say to you: We want to see this impartiality from you. You have demonstrated that you are a competent person in the chair. You know the rules of this Parliament. Now it is up to you to apply them. 
When the Parliament sees a Prime Minister bowing because he is not game to discipline one of his Ministers, a Minister who acts in the most undisciplined way in this Parliament, we wonder where we are going. He is prepared to let even his own  Speaker  be crucified. Where do we go now? Are you going to be the next,  Mr Speaker?  You have the awesome task of deciding whether you are going to be a man of honour who will see that there is fairness and equity in the rulings of this Parliament or whether you are going to be intimidated and dragooned by the Prime Minister and act just as a sycophant for him. I hope that your decision will be for the former. There has been a statement of some notoriety in recent days in these terms: 
When violence is done to an important convention, a well established custom, then violence is done to democracy itself. 
I hope that you,  Mr Speaker,  take note of those remarks and do not display yourself as nothing more than a hypocritic demagogue, as some people have displayed themselves to this nation. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa-Prime Minister) I inform the House that it will be  His Excellency  the Administrator's pleasure to receive the  Speaker  in the Library forthwith. 
We have listened to a rather pathetic speech by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  This great, arrogant man of steel today has shown himself to be indeed brittle.  His  impropriety, his abuses, his contradictions and his lack of loyalty are sapping the man in such a way that there was no vitality or spirit in his speech today, a speech of condemnation of him alone. All he can do is to put up a contrary amendment. If his amendment had any standing at all why did not the Government allow debate on this matter last Thursday? Why did it gag every opportunity for discussion on this despicable matter that was before the Parliament. 
What happened here last Thursday was of tremendous significance. In essence we saw a number of things happen. We saw Ministers, especially the Prime Minister, display characteristics which place in most serious doubt their fitness to remain in office. We saw the Speakerand every future  Speaker,  if this Government remains- stripped of his power and authority to control this House and enforce its Standing Orders, thus destroying the whole basis on which the House operates. We saw the  Speaker  overthrown and his power and authority violated and usurped by a Prime Minister dictator. We saw the House reduced by this Government to impotence in the most basic and vital of its functionsthe exercise of its powers to protect itself against assault. 
For such far-reaching abuses the Government must be censured and the Prime Minister brought to his senses before the process of destruction becomes irreversible. The processes of this Parliament are being crushed under foot by the Government. Last week's events simply climaxed the situation. We saw every attempt by the Opposition to expose the Government's shocking attack being immediately gagged. There was no effort to explain or justify its action, just a dictatorial contempt for everybody- this Parliament and the Australian nation. For 2 years we have seen a growing level of abuse of the customs of this House by Ministers. Question time has been subverted by Ministers for their own purposes. The rights of private members have been ignored. Legislation- for example, the recent Darwin legislation and the companies legislation- has been rushed through this House with unnecessary haste and in violation of all the accepted customs of the House. The Government has remained impervious to criticism both inside and outside the Parliament. No longer do Ministers make policy statements in this House which can be debated. Parliament is treated as unnecessarya formal nuisance. 

 Mr Speaker, few people have done more to subvert the democratic processes of this Parliament than has the Prime Minister. Few men have done as much to demean and besmirch the conventions, customs and traditions of this Parliament as has the Prime Minister. Few men have done so much violence to the important conventions, to the well-established customs and hence to the democracy, as has this Prime Minister.  His  self-confessed objective is the destruction of the States and the creation of an all-powerful central government- unitary government, as he calls it. 
The traditions of Cabinet government were swept aside in late 1972 when this Prime Minister set up his 2-man junta. The tradition of an apolitical Public Service has been swept aside by this Prime Minister and this Government as Ministers' sons, mates, friends, defeated colleagues and even the political staff ofthe Prime Minister have been appointed even to the highest positions in the Public Service of this country. Who was it who resorted to a shabby, shameful tactic in an effort to rig the numbers in the Senate? It was this Prime Minister. Who was it who knowingly allowed a person to sit and vote in the Senate chamber knowing that that person had resigned? It was the Prime Minister. Who was it who made a most blatantly political appointment to the High Court for his own political purposes? It was this Prime Minister. Who was it urged serving soldiers to mutiny? It was this Prime Minister. 
Who was it who publicly rebuked the head of a Government department in a departure from all custom and convention? It was this Prime Minister. Who was it publicly, from a distance of several thousand miles, made an outrageous and improper pre-judgment on the Hobart bridge disaster in breach of all established legal precedent and custom? It was this Prime Minister. Who was it who resorted to the cowardly device of blaming the Treasury for the Government's mismanagement of the economy? None other than that same Prime Minister. Who was it who, in a most shameful performance in 1970, led the whole of the Opposition in a mass act of defiance of the  Speaker  until the House had to be adjourned because of gross disorder? 
There is a great long list of broken conventions, discrediting the traditions and so on to which one can refer when speaking of our present Prime Minister. What about the tradition that a Minister in whom the Parliament expresses a lack of confidence should immediately resign? Who found himself in this situation and thrust aside all convention and custom surrounding that situation? It was the former Attorney-General of this Government. That is what this Government thinks of convention. Who was it who made an unprecedented and indefensible raid on the office of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and who supported and defended that action? It was the former Attorney-General and this Prime Minister respectively. Let it not be forgotten that the purposes of the Murphy raids on ASIO, or the nature ofthe documents that he was so desperate to find, have never been revealed. I wonder how long it will be before the full story will come out. Yet this Prime Minister is the man who has the hide to go on national television and preach about the need to uphold tradition, and to protect the customs and conventions of our democratic system. This is the man and this is the Government which claim the right to have charge of the nation's affairs. No man and no government have ever stood so discredited in the eyes of this House and in the eyes of the people we all represent. No man and no government have ever done so much to destroy and smash the traditions, the conventions and the customs on which this Parliament stand and on which the whole of our national life stands. And when the attack and the destruction extend to the very heart of our democratic institution- this Parliament-then it is time to stop the rot. 
The Australian people must be able to look to their national leader for ethics of the highest standard. They should be able to look to the 
Prime Minister in particular to uphold the important and vital conventions and rules upon which the strength and stability of our whole society must rest. If that leadership and those ethical standards are absent, as they clearly are today, then the process of decay and destruction will take place at an increasingly rapid rate. If that process occurs and is seen to occur in the supreme institution of the nation, and is led and is seen to be led by the man who claims to be the nation's leader, then we need feel no surprise at the continuing and accelerating disintegration of the fabric of our society. What the Prime Minister must be made to understand is that the actions I have described are bad enough when they are done by anybody, but when they are perpetrated by the Prime Minister himself, the offence is far worse. It is a national crime. 
The Prime Minister is fond of telling us that democracy is under threat. So it is, and nowhere more than in Australia; nowhere in Australia more than in this Parliament itself. The biggest threat to democracy here, and the most dangerous parliamentary predator, has been shown to be the Prime Minister himself. I am not talking about the kind of behaviour that was described in one newspaper last Friday as that of a foulmouthed schoolboy bully. I am talking about the vicious assault by the Prime Minister on the supremacy of Parliament. The Parliament should be supreme. It must be supreme if it is to survive as the paramount manifestation of our democracy and if our democracy itself is to survive. Yet last Thursday we saw in this place a violant assault on this institution- an assault mounted by the Government and led by the Prime Minister. Four members of the Government including yourself,  Mr Speaker,  displayed a regard for this institution for which I commend you. The four of you did it by walking out of the chamber and refusing to have any part of the sordid plot the Prime Minister was leading- an act of treachery against the then  Speaker,  an act of treachery against this Parliament and an act of treachery against our democratic system. 
The significance of the Prime Minister's assault on this Parliament goes much deeper than it might at first seem to do. Firstly, the Prime Minister, although he is not given any special recognition in the Standing Orders, does occupy a special place in this Parliament. This special place carries with it special burdens which we all acknowledge, but those burdens are accompanied by special demands for the highest standard of observance of the dignity and the standing of the Parliament and for the protection of the Parliament. Many of us, from time to time, probably are guilty of breaches against the dignity and the traditions of the Parliament. Some of us, myself included, have experienced the power which the Parliament can wield in its own defence, but all of us who have transgressed against the Standing Orders and the dignity and decorum of the House have been dealt with as required by the rules, the customs and the traditions of the Parliament. It is those very powers- the powers of protection and preservation of the Parliament- that have now come under direct challenge and threat from the Prime Minister with nearly everyone of the members of the Government as his accomplices. Whereas the rest of us, over the years, have been subject to the sanctions of the Parliament, today this Prime Minister has placed himself and the Government beyond the- reach of those  sanctions.  This raises the gravest threat to this Parliament and to everything it represents. 
On Thursday 2 things happened which I believe represent the clearest breaches of privilege. Firstly, the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  insulted and defied the  Speaker.  Secondly, the Prime Minister abused and threatened the  Speaker.  In making these attacks on the authority of the  Speaker,  both these men committed serious and clear breaches of privilege. But what happened when, quite properly and indeed inevitably, it was proposed that one of these acts be referred to the Privileges Committee? The Government, led by the Prime Minister, using its weight of numbers prevented that course from being followed. To quote from an editorial in the 'Canberra Times' of last Friday, this action by the Government 'left the Parliament impotent to act in defence of its privilege'. Exactly the same thing happened on another occasion earlier in the life of this Parliament when a gross libel on the House by the Prime Minister and a clear and serious breach of privilege by the Prime Minister was prevented from going to the Privileges Committee of this House. 
This Parliament, through the acts of the Prime Minister and the Government, has been made impotent to protect itself against the kind of attacks these predators and violators unleashed last Thursday. This is a matter of the gravest moment because it goes to the very heart of our democratic system. It is true, as the Prime Minister keeps telling us, that democracy and the democratic institutions are under threat. It is also true, as I repeat, that the most serious and direct threat to this country is coming from this Prime Minister and those who sit behind him. The simple answer is that they cannot be trusted, and the sooner they are removed from positions in which they are so demonstrably abusing and dishonouring the forms of this House the better it will be for the Australian people. 
We have seen some frightful examples of the Prime Minister's paucity of leadership in such things as his shabby, shocking treatment of the former Treasurer who was allowed to suffer and agonise for weeks while the Prime Minister tried to summon up the courage finally to stab him in the back. We have seen it in the case of the present Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  A matter involving the Treasurer's staff cries out for intervention and a display of leadership by the Prime Minister so that this distracting situation can be resolved, but there is little chance of that happening. We have seen, when it came to a choice of disciplining the wild and insubordinate Minister for Labor and Immigration or deserting the  Speaker  that he chose the latter. When the test of courage was applied he was found wanting. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
What were the monthly imports into Australia of processed pig meats by weight and by source of supply during 1973 and in 1974 to date. 
My question to the Prime Minister relates to the worsening situation in the beef industry. I point out that in my own electorate at present it is estimated that $ 10m is owed to local stock agents by cattle producers. I ask the Prime Minister whether he recalls my representations to him last October seeking a number of forms of assistance to the industry, the most urgent of which I suggested was carry-on finance. In the light of the kind of situation in my own electorate- no doubt it is paralleled in many other areas of Australia- will the Government now urgently re-examine its attitude to interest rates on money available to beef producers? Will the Government urgently consider the new approach made by the Australian National Cattlemen's Council and several other industry organisations seeking urgent action to reduce the interest rates on carry-on loans to beef producers? 
This is one of those pieces of legislation that all of us need to approach with great care. When we discuss this legislation we are not simply debating the clauses of a Bill; we are dealing with people's lives at a very deep and sensitive level. This is legislation which goes to the heart of our society and its well-being. For that reason we should all keep in mind the great importance of framing laws that respect and enhance the dignity and the liberty of the individual yet which, at the same time, go as far as possible towards protecting and strengthening our society as a whole. 
I think there is a great deal of common ground in this matter. For example, I think all of us would agree that our existing divorce laws are in need of reform. At the same time I think it is fairly common ground, though perhaps these days not universally agreed, that the best basis of our society is the family unit built around enduring marriage. I think most people would agree that it should be our aim to do nothing to weaken that foundation of our society but to do only those things which would strengthen it. But I think too that most people would also agree that it is inevitable that some marriages will break down, that families will be placed under stress, and that human failings, bad judgments, community pressures and all sorts of other influences will place many people in situations which they can no longer tolerate, which they should not be expected to tolerate, and which are bad for them, for their children and for society. When that happens, as it does on only too many occasions, then I am sure most people, but not all, accept that those concerned should be able to extricate themselves from that situation with dignity, with fairness, with self-respect, with a minimum of legal and financial burden, with the least damage io iiic persons involved, especially the children, and also- this is important- with the least damage to the society of which those persons are members. 
I welcome this Bill for the attempt it makes to improve divorce procedures and to protect the children of marriages that break down. I welcome it for the steps it takes towards improving the counselling and other facilities that are provided to help preserve and strengthen marriages. I welcome the Bill for the simplification it promises to divorce proceedings. Having said those things, however, there are some other things I must say. I regret that some of the reactions this Bill has aroused have tended to obscure what I believe is its real meaning and intention. While much of the reaction has been justified, and has been properly and thoughtfully expressed with sensible and constructive suggestions, other reactions seem to me to have been less than helpful, and to have not represented a full understanding of what has been proposed. 
That is not to say that there was not and is not room for considerable improvement in the legislation. There has been improvement already, and I hope there will be more. But I do not believe that the people who drafted this legislation and who were the motivating forces behind it set out deliberately to destroy the fabric of our society and its institutions, as some people have alleged. I believe they had the best of intentions, and that they are quite willing, as has been shown, to listen to and to accept sound suggestions. 
One of the important questions raised by this Bill is the period of separation which is proposed before divorce proceedings can begin. This is not the simple matter that many people suggest it is, and we must look at it with compassion as well as with concern for the importance of marriage and the family. I can well understand and imagine the circumstances in which even 12 months would be too long a period. There could be circumstances of so unfortunate and distressing a kind that any reasonable and humane person would agree that an immediate divorce was justified as the only answer in a particular situation. But on the other hand, I believe we must guard against any growth of attitudes which would see marriage as a temporary, easily broken contract. Of course whether such attitudes can be fostered or broken down by the passing of laws is another matter. But we certainly should not in any way condone or support, even indirectly, any attack on the institutions of marriage and the familyinstitutions which I believe are the foundation of our society. 
It seems to me that the institution of marriage should be regarded as being normally. a permanent thing. No doubt there are some people who hold the view that it would be better to regard marriage as something that may be entered into or departed from, or even dispensed with, with much greater flexibility and ease than is now the case- and that society would be better for it. I cannot accept that view at all. I read somewhere once the following statement: 
Wherever the family flourishes in a state of vigour and unity, there will be found a strong and sound society. 
I agree with that statement, and I think it should form the basis of our approach to this legislation. It certainly does in my own case. What would be ideal, of course, is a system of matrimonial laws which could take account of the special characteristics and needs of every situation and of every person. This is obviously impossible, so we have to try to arrive at a system which best meets the needs of most individuals and best protects and strengthens our society. For that reason I think we have to accept the fact- as much as I do not like it and as much as it will bring distress in particular cases to particular people- that there must be a degree of discipline applied to indivduals so that society as a whole is strengthened and protected. 
Of course it is easy for us to make these judgments and to call upon people to make sacrifices in the interests of the whole of society. But we in this place have been given an enormous responsibility, and that responsibility is to make laws which meet the needs of the whole community, and all of its members, to the greatest extent possible. That is an incredibly difficult task and it places us in the unenviable position of having to make decisions which are compromises. There is nothing wrong with that; it is just that, try as hard as we might, we find it impossible to frame laws to meet the needs of everyone to the same degree. 
So, I think we have to accept that, if marriage and the family are the basic institutions of our society- and I am sure the vast majority of Australians hold to that view- individual members of that society must accept some discipline and some restraints in the interests of the society of which we are all part. I repeat that this will, in particular cases, impose strains, distress and hardship on individual people. But such suffering seems, unfortunately, to be an inevitable part of the responsibilities which all of us must bear as members of a strong and stable society. 
I make these points to support my view that the provisions of this Bill which originally, as I understand it, allowed for divorce proceedings to be initiated, in effect, the day after marriage, were inappropriate, and that the period of separation which should occur before divorce proceedings can begin should be 2 years and not one year, An amendment designed to make the period 2 years has been moved, and it will have my support. 
While I do not believe that the great majority of people go into marriage looking ahead to the possibility of divorce, or that they give any thought to whether divorce will be hard or easy to get, I do think that a period of separation of only one year is too short a time for the full possibilities of reconciliation to be explored. I know of one case where the partner who has been deserted wishes to seek a divorce, and will be assisted to do so under this legislation. But at the same time, this person believes that in the first 12 months or more of the separation, the possibilities of reconciliation still exist, and that to have such a short period written into the law would be wrong. I am referring to just one personal case that I know of at the moment. 
I am also concerned about the recognition of separation even though the parties to the marriage continue to live in the same house and, in the words of the Bill, 'render some household services to each other'. I find this clause somewhat unrealistic. I cannot understand how 2 people who continue to live in the same house will be able to show that their association is no longer tolerable and should be ended. This, provision seems to make a mockery of the whole matter of separation and I hope it will be reconsidered. 
So, I believe that a 2 year separation before divorce proceedings can be initiated would be a reasonable provision which would impose a much more reasonable discipline on the parties compared with the present situation, yet would provide an appropriate safeguard against the damage to society which could very easily flow from the availability of so-called 'easy' divorce. In other words, 2 years would meet the needs of most individuals, although requiring considerable discipline of them, and also meet the needs of society as a whole. Also, I think a 2 year separation would tend to prevent irrevocable decisions being made in the heat of difficult circumstances, and would allow more time for the forces of reconciliation to be applied. 
Although I accept the new single ground for divorce- that of 'irretrievable breakdown' based solely on evidence of a period of separation- I would think that when such matters as the custody of children, maintenance and so on are being considered, some attention will have to be paid to the previous behaviour of the partners. I acknowledge that a decree is not to be made automatically and in fact must not be made if the court is satisfied that there is a reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being resumed. But I feel that matters other than a mere period of separation will need to be taken into account by the court for the various reasons I have mentioned. I hope this aspect will be considered by the House. 
One matter which gives me very great concernI think this is probably the aspect of the Bill that worries me most of all- is the fact that, as I understand it, either party to the marriage can simply walk out of the marriage without incurring any responsibilities whatever. I know that in the Senate certain amendments were accepted which improved the provisions of the Bill in respect of maintenance, but it seems to me that the position of either party- particularly of a wife in the case of her husband seeking divorce- is by no means adequately protected. Clause 75 lists the matters which the court is to take into account in considering maintenance and it says that these are the only matters to be considered. No doubt all the matters in that list are all right, and I know that the list was added to in the Senate, but I still wonder whether enough attention is being paid to the position of the party who is left behind when the other walks out. That is why I said earlier that some attention ought to be paid to the behaviour of the parties. 
I do not suggest that this be done to apportion blame or fault- I do not think that any of us want to see the degrading process of accusation and counter-accusation continue- but I think that the behaviour of the parties must be considered if their responsibilities to each other after the marriage ends are to be properly and fairly determined. I know that it is hard to get an accurate and fair picture of the behaviour of the parties but I think that the court should try to do it to the extent that it is necessary to allow a proper determination of responsibility to be made. We do not want to punish people but at the sime time we do not want to allow innocent people, or those with a lesser degree of blame attaching to them, to be victimised or allowed to suffer unfairly. 
I base these comments on my view that when 2 people marry they undertake certain responsibilities and duties to each other, and each is entitled to expect that the other will fulfil those duties. If the marriage breaks down, especially as a result of the beha viour of one of the partners- I am now thinking of the husband in particular- I do not think that he should be freed of all the responsibilities he undertook to his wife and which she was entitled to expect him to fulfil. I have been impressed by a statement by the Family Life Movement of Australia which points out that the social problem is not so much divorce itself but the breakdown of marriage which precedes the divorce. 
This Bill concentrates very heavily, as I suppose it must, on the legal processes of divorce. But what we ought to be devoting much more attention to as a Parliament and certainly as a community is the prevention of divorce- not by legislation but by the strengthening of marriage. As the Family Life Movement again points out, we are bogged down in relief and mopping-up operations instead of paying a great deal more attention to preparation for marriage. The Bill we are discussing has been improved considerably in its provisions for counselling of the parties to a divorce application, and I welcome this. 
The proposal to establish family courts is a welcome one. But surely we must go a lot further and provide much better counselling services to help people prepare for marriage- not just trying to sort out the messes they get into. If this Bill made provision for a considerable upgrading of counselling services in preparation for marriage it would come much closer to meriting its title of the 'Family Law Bill'. In general terms I support the intentions of the Bill, but I hope that the House will give consideration to some of the specific matters I have raised and about which no doubt other honourable members also are concerned. I restate my own belief that we have a tremendous responsibility to see that whatever we do here today does nothing to weaken or reduce marriage and the family as the basic institutions of our society but that we make them stronger. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
What amount of the 1973/74 Budget allocation for the national pipeline grid has been expended. 
Of the total amount expended from the Budget allocation, what proportion could be attributed to (a) administrative overheads, (b) labour costs and (c) material costs. 
What proportions of the 1973/74 Budget allocation for the pipeline grid were estimated at the time of allocation to be attributed to the 3 factors outlined in part (2). 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) At the current world parity price for the gas contained in the deposits in the off-shore areas of North West Australia, what would be the estimated cost per gallon of motor spirit of converting the gas to motor spirit. 
What is the current equivalent world market price for gas of the type contained in the North West Shelf gas deposits of Western Australia. 
For the purposes of price negotiation with the consortium which owns these gas reserves, what is regarded as a reasonable rate of return on capital which the consortium should receive for the sale of its gas. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of an interview on television last night between 2 experienced correspondents in South-East Asia and Indo-China,  Mr Pat  Burgess and  Mr Richard  Hughes? Is the Prime Minister further aware of the suggestion made in the interview that a communist victory in South Vietnam could be followed by the killing of up to one million people whom the communists judge to have been opposed to their cause? I also ask the Prime Minister whether he is aware of any evidence to support that view, based on past communist actions in Vietnam, and whether he has made or will make the strongest possible appeal to North Vietnam to refrain from embarking upon the mass executions which experienced people believe are likely to occur. Will he appeal to the United Nations to take whatever action is possible to ensure that reprisals of this kind do not occur? 

 Mr WHITLAM I am not aware of the interview. I did not see it and I have not heard any report from it. I have, of course, in the last week had close discussions with 2 leaders of SouthEast Asian countries- Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew and  President  Suharto. Neither expressed any views such as those which the right honourable gentleman has quoted. I have been in touch with the Government of North Vietnam. The Australian Government will do all it can in an international context to alleviate any suffering in Vietnam and to rehabilitate the country. I have no reason whatever to believe that there would be the degree of slaughter that the right honourable gentleman has suggested. I would hope that the slaughter which has gone on for the last 10 years with the encouragement of honourable gentlemen opposite will soon end. As regards the UN, there were occasions during the time that Australia was militarily involved in South Vietnam when there were suggestions about the bringing of this matter before the United Nations and on each of those occasions the Australian Government did its best to frustrate the efforts to have the United Nations deal with the matter. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Did he state on 17 September 1974 that the annual throughput of refineries in Australia was 220 million barrels of crude and liquids associated with crude. 
Did he also claim that there were 3300 million barrels of these liquids in reserve which by simple division gives Australia 1 5 years fuel reserves. 
If so, does he adhere to these figures. 
Do his figures for liquid reserves contain approximately 1000 million barrels of liquid petroleum gas. 
Has he any estimate of the percentage of liquid reserves which are recoverable at the present Australian price of crude oil; if so, what are the details. 
What is his projection of demand for refinery feedstock during each of the next 1 S years. 
Did the Forecast of Consumption of Primary Fuels 1972-73 to 1984-85 published by his Department state at page 3 that refinery feedstock demand will increase by about 4.9 per cent per annum; if so, what is the reconciliation of this estimate with the figures he gave on 17 September 1974, which imply constant annual demand. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
With reference to his reply to a question on 30 July 1974 (Hansard, pages 740-1) when he stated that the natural gas requirements of Adelaide and South Australia plus the contractual obligations to the Australian Gas Light Co. were of the order of 4.4 trillion cubic feet, over what time scale was this demand projected. 
Does this figure include the estimated 0.5 trillion cubic feet required for the proposed Red Cliff petrochemical plant. 
Does he maintain, in the light of the Pacific Gas Light Co. ceasing drilling in Palm Valley, that Palm Valley has sufficient gas reserves to act as backup to the Cooper Basin. 
If so, (a) what size is the recoverable reserve, (b) who made the determination of the size and (c) when was the work for the determination carried out. 
-Can the Treasurer confirm that the Government has decided to enter the insurance field with its own insurance office? Does the Treasurer recall his announcement of 4 April of the establishment of 2 insurance consultative committees to advise the Government on legislation and to keep the Government informed on industry's views? What advice has been sought from these committees on the Government's plans, or has the Government's decision been made without any consultation with these committees? 
Those people who listened to the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  must be gravely concerned at the attitude of the Government to inflation and to the printing of money to try to get this country out of the frightful economic mess that it is getting into. The Treasurer has endeavoured to confuse and cloud the issues of the day. Unemployment today is relatively serious in this country. Unlike the position we have known for decades, unemployment today is running at 4.6 per cent of the workforce. But if those employed under the Regional Employment Development scheme and other unemployment relief schemes were added, the unemployment rate would be over 5 per cent. Yet, during the time when the Liberal and Country Parties had the responsibility for the economic management of this country, the unemployment rate seldom went over 2 per cent. 
Today inflation is approaching a rate of 20 per cent per annum. This is a frightening level of inflation in the circumstances of today's world in which most other countries are restraining inflation or bringing it under control. Australia leads the developed countries of the world in the rate of increase of costs and prices. Yet we have a Government which is hell bent on just pouring more and more money into the community and using the most unsatisfactory- the worst- device for doing it, namely, the printing press. The use of the printing press represents an admission of economic mismanagement, defeat and inability to cope with the situation. People of great stature and importance in the community are expressing grave concern. The Governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia is concerned. This is obvious from his public statements and reports that there has been correspondence between the Governor of the Reserve Bank and the Treasurer. It has been admitted now in a reply to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  that there have been several letters. 
Other eminent people have expressed concern.  Mr Prowse  of the Bankers Association of Australia has expressed great concern about the volume of money being increased and the inflationary impact which may result. Surely nobody in the banking world really wants to see the money supply restricted. Responsible people know that if the money supply is increased to an abnormal extent increasing costs and prices will result. They must stand up and state their point of view. Professor Hogan of the Sydney University today has expressed his concern also about the volume of money. Of course, we have had Professor Milton Friedman in the country saying that it is just lunacy to increase the rate of money supply by 20 per cent per annum and that to do so is only fanning the fires of inflation. It is all right for the Treasurer to quote Professor Samuelson of the United States of America, but was he in Australia when he was making his remarks? Was he making them about the Australian situation? Of course he was not. 
What concerns me is that the Governor of our Reserve Bank has acted in a responsible manner to try to warn the Government of the impact of its policies on the economy, the seriousness of just increasing the supply of money and how it will push up costs and prices. Yet the Treasurer has done everything possible to downgrade this correspondence between the Governor and himself. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition asked the Treasurer a question on this subject last week. The Treasurer said that there had been no conflict. He wrote and pointed out that apparently there had been correspondence. In his reply to  Mr Lynch  he said: 
I have received several letters from the Governor describing the state of the economy and referring to the well known serious state of inflation and unemployment and the effects such things as wages and price increases, Government expenditure and money supply have upon inflation and unemployment. 
The Treasurer has glossed over the situation. I say that if there has been correspondence between the Governor and the Treasurer, that is abnormal. There are plenty of ways and means of communication between the Government and the Reserve Bank without going to the formal position of actually writing a letter. The Secretary of the Treasury sits as a member on the Board of the Reserve Bank. Why can he not communicate back and forth? Even the Federal President of the Australian Labor Party sits as a member of the Board of the Reserve Bank. If he had some concern of a minor nature, why could he not relate it to the Government? Ministers meet with the members of the Reserve Bank. There are many ways in which the staff of the Treasury and the Reserve Bank communicate and have discussions. But no, the Governor decided that he had to write a letter. Having written a letter, there is prescribed in the Reserve Bank Act special provision that any such information relating to a conflict is a matter for both Houses of the Parliament- the Senate and the House of Representatives. It is written into section 1 1 of the Reserve Bank Act that the Reserve Bank is responsible to Parliament- not to the Treasurer. If there is such a conflict the Treasurer and the Government have a responsibility to table correspondence between them in both Houses of the Parliament. Yet we have found that the Treasurer is trying to dodge the issue. He has confused and clouded the issue because he does not want it said that not even the Reserve Bank has confidence in the Government's management of the economy and that the Governor of the Bank is worried about the increased supply of money. 
The Treasurer has been trying to say: 'OK, we will increase our deficit, but the money made available by that deficit is going to the private sector'. That is not the issue. One does not measure the top part of the Budget or the bottom part of the Budget. It is the total presentation and its impact on the economy that are important. The impact of the Budget is to increase money supply by 20 per cent. We are told that there will be deficit financing. All right; there are various means of deficit financing. But when deficit financing come to printing money, this nation is headed on a dangerous course. The massive printing of money should be a worry to every responsible member of this Parliament. Other Reserve Banks around the world have to notify their governments of what they think. Recently, Governor Eppler of the Reich Bank in Germany wrote to the German Finance Minister and pointed out that the Government's policies were inflationary. Germany has a rate of inflation of only 6 or 7 per cent per annum, compared with Australia where the rate of inflation is over 20 per cent per annum. At least Germany has learnt a lesson about what the printing of money means on inflationary budgets. This was the downfall of Germany. 
But this Government does not seem to care. We know already, on projected figures, that the deficit next year will be almost double that for this year. This year, it is $2,300m. It appears that about $2,000m of this amount will have to be made up by Treasury notes, which will include the printing of money to meet the Government 's obligations. The Government is determined to buy itself out of trouble. It will try to reduce unemployment by creating more money, but that in turn will produce more inflation. If we are to have more inflation, ultimately we must have more unemployment. Inflation attacks 'the private sector of the economy. If it is the design of this Government to bring about a wrecked private sector, there is no better way of doing it than by a policy of inflation which, by increased costs and prices, will cripple that sector's operations. This is what is happening now. It seems as though this is part of a socialist policy. The Treasurer, who has a history of economics, must know that the printing of money is the most dangerous course on which a nation can head. It brought about the downfall of Germany. We saw it in the case of Argentina only a decade or two ago. Argentina, a country of similar nature and size to Australia, has been in social upheaval ever since that program was started upon. 
Yet today there were no apologies or excuses. In fact the Government is trying to convince the Australian people that it is good to have deficit financing, that it is good to have expanded social services, compensation schemes and all these things. The Government is breeding the mentality that one can get things for nothing. One cannot get things for nothing. If the Government is going to do these things by printing money Australia is headed towards national bankruptcy. That is what we are concerned about and we are alarmed that the Treasurer should take such a complacent attitude to the printing of more money to try to get himself out of his own economic problems. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. He will be aware that many members of this Parliament, including himself, have had financial agreements or contracts with the Commonwealth- contracts which could be claimed to be in technical breach of the Constitution. Is he prepared to give the House a list of the names of members of Parliament, their partnerships or their firms, who have had any financial transactions in agreement with the Public Service of the Commonwealth? 
-As the Prime Minister is aware, section 45 (iii) of the Constitution states that anybody who directly or indirectly takes or agrees to take any fee or honorarium for services rendered to the Commonwealth is in breach of the Constitution. I ask the Prime Minister: Does he agree that if charges are made against any member of Parliament who receives remuneration for pensioner medical services, repatriation services or pharmaceutical services, these people should have their cases tested before the High Court? 
When does the Treasurer expect his policies to overcome the record unemployment in Australia? Has the Minister for Social Security distributed a paper which differs from the Treasurer's analysis of the economic crisis and proposes different solutions? Finally, can he give the House an assurance that there is full agreement between the Government and the Reserve Bank on monetary policy? 
-Mr Temporary  Chairman  - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I support the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  to provide that the definition of goods be excluded from clause 3 of the Bill. I am confused as to what it really means. On a superficial reading it would appear that goods are defined for the purpose of identifying forms of transport, but quite clearly that is not so because transport is specially denned. If it was important to include ships, aircraft and vehicles they could have been provided in the definition of transport. Under the definition of goods the Government includes animals and minerals. I wonder whether it has forgotten to include vegetables. We know the old saying: 'Guess what it is- animal, vegetable or mineral'. There is no mention of 'vegetable' in the Bill. However it mentions 'gas', 'slurry' and 'minerals'. 'Minerals' is a word with a wide meaning. It even includes petroleum products. 'Animals' has an even wider meaning. It even includes fish. I presume it also includes birds and anything else that lives. Perhaps 'animals' also means 'vegetables'. 
It may be that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  can give a clearer explanation of what is really intended. Is he saying that 'goods' relates to forms of transport, or does it relate to goods in trade and commerce? The suspicion on the Opposition side is that this Bill is to be allembracing and is to have control over not only transport between States but also the trading of goods and the pricing of goods. I think it is right that a much clearer explanation should be given to the Australian people before we agree to go on with the proposals mentioned by the Minister. 
The fundamental purpose of the Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric Power Bill is to make a simple amendment to . change the status of the Commissioner and Associate Commissioners of that Authority. As it stands the Act provides for a Commissioner and 2 Associate Commissioners to be appointed full time for a period of 7 years. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has proposed that there be discretion to allow a Commissioner and Associate Commissioners to be appointed part time as well as discretion about appointing them for a period of 7 years. That proposal in itself appears to be simple. One wonders why the Minister is doing it, apart from his explanation in his second reading speech that the construction stage of the Snowy scheme is now finished and it is not essential to have a full time Commissioner as well as the 2 Associate Commissioners, nor is it necessary that the appointments be for 7 years. I question the wisdom of the Minister's actions, although the Opposition will not vote against the 
Bill. The Opposition believes that the Government has the right to make judgments as to how it will make these appointments, but the Opposition has a right at least to question why this is necessary. 
I do not downgrade the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority as being something that has a rather minor role to play in the economy. It is an enormous organisation. It has an annual income of about $50m. It is employing about 450 personnel, most of them professional highly qualified people or very skilled tradesmen. It has the enormous responsibility of managing about 8 power stations as well as about 16 dams which have been constructed under this enormous scheme. The Opposition asks why the Minister wants to change the present arrangement. One could imagine that he is making the conditions easier so that if he wants to give a job to one of the boys around the place it will be quite easy to put such a person as a head and hope that the technical staff beneath him will continue to do the work and management. But I think it would be very wrong of the Government to appoint a person who has not the engineering qualifications that are necessary to manage an enormous project like this which ranks so highly in the general image of the Australian people. 
The Snowy scheme has been Australia's greatest engineering project. The credit for the development of the project goes to the LiberalCountry Party governments over a period of time. Those government's ensured that it was built as efficiently as any project could be. It is true that the idea was launched by the Chifley Labor Government. All that it did was lay a foundation stone. The plans for the first Adaminaby Dam were not even drawn up. The foundation stone laying was political stunting at the time. We give the credit for commencing the scheme to the Chifley Government but the hard work of getting the program under way and getting it built was done by Liberal-Country Party governments over a period of 23 years. The success of the scheme was due to private tendering and contracting and getting the best skilled labour that was available from all over the world to help in the development of the project. Credit is due to  Sir William  Hudson, who was the Commissioner of that organisation for many years. He was replaced by  Mr Dann,  who was the Commissioner for a few years. But since then no-one has been appointed to the position of  chairman. 
Although the Commission has been expecting the Government to appoint one of the highly qualified personnel who have grown up with the project, this has not happened. All that has happened is that  Mr Collins  has been appointed Acting Director for the last two or three years. I believe there have been acting  deputy  commissioners. It seems strange that the Minister and the Government could not take the bold decision of appointing these people who are highly regarded, highly respected and have the qualifications necessary to do this sort of job. They are trained engineers, they have been brought up with the scheme, they understand its operations and they also have the qualities of leadership which are necessary for such a large organisation. I would be very sad indeed if some outside political figure were brought in and put into this position. The morale of the whole of the Authority would be downgraded if that were to happen. The Authority has always been headed by people of great talent who have been imbued with the spirit and the morale of the organisation. If this change is to be for nothing more than giving a job to one of the boys there will be great disappointment. 
The other thing I question is whether the appointee will be anything more than a figurehead for the Minister- to carry out his directions and his authority. I ask that question and make that allegation because of the experience in 1973 when the Minister, at the behest of the Committee of Management for electrical workers in New South Wales, gave a direction to the Snowy Mountains Engineering Authority to abide by the instructions of that Committee in relation to the restricting of power to New South Wales. At the time this Committee was trying to break the New South Wales Government into agreeing to a 35-hour week for the power generation section of the electrical industry. What the Minister was doing then was handing over the Snowy Mountains Engineering Authority to worker control. In other words, the authority of the management of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Authority was being completely undermined. Is this amendment being made because the management expressed reservations? Is it because it was reluctant to obey the orders of the Minister to hand over to worker control? Is the reason that the Minister wants to change the Act so that the appointments of the Commissioner and the Associate Commissioners will be on only a part time basis- on a year to year basis- so that if they misbehave and question the Minister they can be assured that there will be no extension of their period of appointment? A great engineering undertaking such as this, which has cost $800m to date, which includes 16 dams, 6 major power stations, numerous roads, villages, aqueducts and all the rest of it will be handed over to a parttime  chairman. 
Surely an undertaking costing $800m and with an income of $50m a year needs a chairman who has a little permanency. I know of no electrical authority in Australia which is run by part-time commissioners or chairmen. Certainly, the New South Wales, Queensland and Victorian electrical authorities have not got part-time chairmen. I think that if we are to get good men of high calibre we must offer these people some assurance that there will be security of office, that they will not be employed on a year to year basis, that at least they will be there for a substantial period of time. Seven years was considered to be a fair and reasonable time for a person to occupy such an important position. So we wonder why this has been changed. The Minister has said, as I have said, that the construction stage is finished. That may be so. But it is still a big job managing an undertaking such as this. 
The Minister talks only about the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority. He does not mention anything about the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation which is covered by a separate Act of Parliament. But up to this point of time there has been a common  chairman  or commissioner for both organisations.  Mr Collins  has been the acting  chairman  or commissionerfor both of these organisations. I suppose that now we will have 2 different heads for the 2 organisations. One of the great beauties about having a joint  chairman  for both organisations was that there was a chance for overlapping of employment, for knowing the personnel of both organisations and being able to capitalise on the experience and the knowledge of both organisations. But I gather now that we will have different personnel for different organisations. 
But why does the Minister deal only with the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority? Why are we not also dealing with the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation? Is it because he wants to exercise more control over the electrical aspects of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority so that it will conform with his Committee of Management, with his left-wing group in New South Wales which is putting the screws on the New South Wales Government for more industrial benefits and conditions for workers in that State? Is this Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority simply going to come under worker control? Is this what the Government is aiming for? Perhaps the Minister could make some explanations of this when he is replying to me in the debate. But his second reading speech was so brief that it did not explain anything, other than to say that he wants part-time chairmen and that he wants to be able to appoint them for a period of less than 3 years if need be. 
Do honourable members wonder why we question him? Do they wonder why that great Australian organisation, the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority which was producing approximately 5000 kilowatt hours of peak load power, a vital key in our whole electrical grid in New South Wales and Victoria, should come under a person employed in a part-time capacity? This is an authority which is supplying about 2 500 000 cubic feet of water for the irrigation schemes along the River Murray Irrigation area. Yet we are told that the Authority should have a part-time  chairman,  perhaps employed on a year to year basis with part-time associate commissioners. It is very curious that this organisation should be threatened with being down-graded to that extent. The Opposition does not really see the need for this, although we will not resist it. But we genuinely question what is happening. Should this turn out to be nothing more than a plum for some of the supporters of the Australian Labor Party- a pay-off for some of the boys or for ex-members of the Parliament to get a nice fat juicy job- I can assure the Minister that we will not be silenced and that we will be strong in our criticism. 
It is the wish of the Opposition that this Bill should have a speedy passage through the Parliament to protect the interests of members of Parliament who may be accused of technical breaches of the Constitution and therefore leave themselves liable to action by a common informer. The procedure of law which allows common informers to make a charge against a person is an age-old procedure. It is something of an anachronism in this day and age. In fact, most legislation has now excluded the common informer procedure, but our Constitution still provides in section 46 that a person can make a charge against a member of Parliament if he believes the member of Parliament is in breach of the Constitution. Should that member be found to be violating the Constitution then he is liable to pay 100 or, in today's language, $200 per day for each day that he sits in Parliament. 
Yesterday I went to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and brought this matter to his attention mainly because of the  Senator Webster  case, which has been given a good deal of publicity. There is a motion before the Senate to have this matter referred to the High Court and coupled with that motion is the possibility of a judicial inquiry into possible technical breaches or unwitting breaches of the Constitution by members of Parliament. I felt it was quite wrong that, if there were to be such an investigation and in  Senator Webster's  case public attention had been drawn to the possibility of a breach, then a common informer could make a claim against  Senator Webster  with, if the court ruled against  Senator Webster,  consequences that could be quite ruinous for him. I think that that would be grossly unfair to any member of Parliament. Section 46 of the Constitution provides that until Parliament otherwise decides it shall remain. 
I commend the Government for its speedy action in this matter. I trust that this Bill will go through both Houses of Parliament immediately, before any smart alec or pimp can take the common informer action that the law allows him to take. The Government has said that in this legislation it will retain the common informer principle. On studying the Bill and listening to the second reading speech of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  I believe that there is a degree of wisdom in retaining it although I also believe that the practice is reprehensible in this day and age. However, in the case of parliamentarians there may be some wisdom in retaining it. I will make further mention of that in a few minutes. 
I want to make it quite clear that neither I nor my Party wants to stand in the way of having these technical matters or possible breaches of the Constitution go to the court. Indeed, the joint statement by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and myself last week made it quite clear that we thought that  Senator Webster's  case should be referred to the High Court as quickly as possible to clear his good name. At the same time we made it quite clear that we were also concerned about the technical position of other members of Parliament who could be in breach of the Constitution and that we thought this matter ought to be cleared up as soon as possible. I do not think it would be out of place for me to remind the House that no one has suggested that there has been the slightest impropriety on  Senator Webster's  part. I venture to say that if the letter of the law as it is written in sections 44 and 45 of the Constitution were to be followed we would possible have a very thin Parliament. Of course all those who were disqualified would be liable to a charge by a common informer. 
I suggest that the purpose of sections 44 and 45 of the Constitution is to guard against impropriety and against conflict of interest between a member's private interest and his public duties as a member of Parliament. Since no one has suggested that these have occurred, I submit that it would be grossly unfair if  Senator Webster  were to be the only person to carry the burden of the processes of resolving this matter when it appears that other people could also be in technical breach of the constitution. I say also that there has been no suggestion of impropriety in any of the other apparent technical breaches of sections 44 and 45 of the Constitution by other members of this Parliament. 
It is clear that we should clarify the whole question which has arisen as a result of  Senator Webster's  case. We need to know what kind of actions could represent breaches of the Constitution. We need to ascertain whether people other than  Senator Webster  have in fact breached or appear to have breached the Constitution. Over the last week I have felt very strongly that  Senator Webster  has been bearing an unfair share of the burden in this matter. The action proposed in his case seems to be quite drastic unless a fuller examination is undertaken of the position of all members of Parliament. That examination can now be undertaken without fear and trepidation by members of Parliament who, because of circumstances of which they are not even aware, could be found to be in breach of the Constitution. Indeed, with the common informer provisions of section 46 of the Constitution it could be completely ruinous for a member of Parliament should he be charged and found to be in breach of the Constitution, even unwittingly so. 
This Bill allows for a charge to be brought by a common informer. But once a charge is made there is a heavy responsibility to see that the matter is clarified and disposed of as quickly as possible before the member can resume his place in Parliament. This can be done by resolution of the House or by the Court of Disputed Returns. Common informers are not very highly regarded by the courts. In a case in 1914 concerning a member of the British House of Commons who had dealings in bullion with the Government of India the judge felt obliged to award the common informer 13,000. However, the judge stated: 
The legislature has thought fit to appeal to the cupidity of individuals as a means of preventing ills which the action of authorities could not be depended upon to prevent. 
By these words the judge meant that although he was reluctant to apply them, the provisions relating to common informer proceedings are necessary to protect the public interest against abuses by members of Parliament or the Executive. In other words, there should be written into the law provision for a common informer to take action if need be against members of Parliament or against the Executive if they tried to smother or hide an issue. Probably this is the one example of why the common informer clause should remain in law, although the British Parliament has taken action to remove it completely. 
It may not always be possible for evidence which has been suppressed by the Executive or by a member of Parliament to be discovered. In the light of these facts the common informer procedure plays an important role. This Bill does not attempt to abolish the common informer procedure, as I mentioned before. It recognises that the common informer procedure is desirable in certain circumstances. I class these as rare circumstances. However, the law as it now stands under sections 44 and 45 of the Constitution is far too wide. This Bill defines more clearly the penalties which common informers may be awarded. It does not allow the court to make the penalty retrospective for whatever period the member may have been in Parliament. What it does is provide a penalty of $200 from the time the charge is laid. Then if the member continues to sit in Parliament he is liable to a penalty of $200 for each day he sits in Parliament There is a clause in the BUI which states that the penalty cannot be made retrospective for more than 12 months, so action has to be taken within the 12 months period. 
Under the Common Informers Act 1951 the British Parliament abolished common informer procedures for a wide range of statutes, some dating back to the sixteenth century. In the House of Commons Disqualification of Members Act 1957 the British Parliament abolished provisions relating to the disqualification of members who entered into contracts, agreements or commissions with the Public Service. The Constitution of Australia still contains that provision but the mother of Parliaments- the source of English law which we follow- has now completely abolished the provisions whereby a member who enters into contracts or agreements with the Public Service is disqualified. I hope that this matter will be taken into account when the High Court judges this matter. Section 14 of the same Act also repealed previous Acts containing provisions relating to action by common informers against members of Parliament who entered into contracts with the Public Service. Furthermore, as May points out at page 217 of his book ,D...././.-I........ Practice', the British Parliament also has passed from time to time special Acts to indemnify parliamentarians against common informer procedures. 
I commend the Government for its immediate action in bringing forward this legislation to give reasonable and decent protection to members of Parliament who, without any impropriety, may find themselves in breach of the Constitution. I think it is only fitting and right that if there is to be a judicial inquiry this sort of action should be taken by the Parliament immediately. I hope that the Bill will have a speedy passage through the Parliament. The Opposition will give it all the support it can. I appreciate the prompt action of the Attorney-General and the Prime Minister on the recommendations that I made. 
-My question which is directed to the Prime Minister is supplementary to that asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. The Minister for Minerals and Energy when answering a question confirmed that Government authority had been given for special overseas borrowings of up to $2,000m. I ask the Prime Minister: As this is a major departure from existing practice, whereby authority has rested with the Treasury, will the Government make a statement clarifying its position and its intent so that the House and the Australian people might know what the Government's intentions are? Is it not a fact that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission requires full disclosure of proposed foreign borrowings in that country? If that is the case, why is it not good enough for the Australian people to know these facts? 
I wish to inform the House that the parliamentary Party of which I am Leader is now called the National Country Party of Australia. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
What was the estimated cost per unit of the pipelines required for the pipeline grid at the time of the 1973-74 Budget allocation for the national pipeline grid, and what is the equivalent current cost. 
What percentage of the steel required for current pipeline construction by the Pipeline Authority is imported from Japan. 
Are any significant delays being experienced in supply of pipeline material to the Pipeline Authority by suppliers due to high world wide demand; if so, what has been the effect upon the schedule of pipeline construction. 
All the double talk, all the quick foot action cannot excuse the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  from one of the gravest breaches of parliamentary performanceof deceiving the Parliament. He tried to say that the telegrams were the same. He tried to say that he had explained that there were specific differences. But why did he refuse to allow the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to have copies of them? Why was it that, when the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  brought this matter to the attention of Parliament, the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs sent a memo through the Department to collect all the telegrams and have them put in the safety deposit box of the Department of Foreign Affairs? 
For 2 weeks the Australian public have been fortunate to be able to examine the cables which were sent to Hanoi and Saigon, and they have made their own j udgment- that the Prime Minister did send different telegrams and that he deliberately misled the Parliament.  His  integrity is under challenge. But the thing that came through most clearly today in the Prime Minister's speech to this House in trying to excuse himself was that we on this side of the Parliament resisted the communist aggression, the communist advance, in South Vietnam whilst the Australian Labor Party condoned it. That is what is quite clear in what the Prime Minister said. As is usual on these occasions, the Prime Minister displayed that he is the master of double talk and avoided the real issue- his deceit of this Parliament. I say 'on these occasions' because we seem to be having a lot of these occasions lately. When we have a Prime Minister with principles of this kind and whose Goverment acts in this way it is little wonder that such debates as this occur. But it is a pity because there are many major issues that should be debated. Inflation is bad, unemployment is bad and is getting worse. But can we ignore the fact that there is a clear case of deception by the Prime Minister in relation to these cables? That is what this debate is all about. 
The Prime Minister has done everything to try to confuse the issue by his double talk and by just glossing over the issue as though it does not matter at all. I suppose that he will be shielded by the men who sit behind him who know full well that he does not deserve their protection. This afternoon the Leader of the Opposition spelt out indisputably the difference between the cables sent by the Prime Minister to both Hanoi and Saigon. In view of the firm and categorical denial of any difference by the Prime Minister on 9 April and supported in another place by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee),  there is clear evidence for everyone to see that the Prime Minister -has deceived this Parliament and tried to suppress and keep secret the Government's real feelings and attitudes. Therefore this is a matter of utmost concern for the Australian people. All the counter-charges, all the allegations, accusations and red herrings thrown about by the Prime Minister this afternoon do not alter the inescapable fact that the Prime Minister has deceived the Parliament and the nation. 
The Prime Minister has been exposed for duplicity in foreign affairs. His integrity and trust must now be challenged. Under the Westminster parliamentary system there is nothing more serious, no greater felony, than the misleading of Parliament by the Prime Minister. When the deception is in the most important area of foreign affairs the felony is made doubly serious. The Prime Minister's departure from the truth must place in question Australia's position of trust with other countries, particularly those to which we look as being friends and allies. The whole issue exposes the devious attitude of the Government to the cause of communism. If the cables had not become public- goodness knows what other messages have been conveyed- the Australian people would never have known that their Government had, in the most secretive way, been double dealing to assist and encourage the communist cause in South Vietnam. In other words, the actions of this Government have been tantamount to conspiring to help communist expansion in Indo-China. This could have lasting and serious consequences for other countries in South East Asia and, of course, ultimately for ourselves. 
The whole balance of political power and military strength has now been altered in favour of the communists in one of the most potentially unstable regions of the world. Vietnam has now one of the best equipped and largest military forces in the world. It seems that as a result of a communist victory the Soviet Union probably will establish a naval base in South Vietnam. All these things can hardly be claimed to be in the long term interests of Australia or her friends in this part of the world. The letters and the cables, as demonstrated by the Leader of the Opposition, verify that the Government has been more than sympathetic to communist aggression and communist victory in Vietnam, a victory which will mean that systematically and ruthlessly any Western influence or political opposition will be removed. Obviously, the Prime Minister is conscious of the general feeling of the Australian public. What other reason can be given for the underhand way in which he has handled this matter. Why did he mislead Parliament? Why did he try to hide and cover up these cables? There are many issues that cluster around this central matter of deception. There is the issue of the Prime Minister's support for the communist side in Vietnam. There is the issue of the Prime Minister's efforts to withhold from Parliament and the Australian people the support that he had been offering. 
There is the issue of the Prime Minister's continuing effort to place all the blame in Vietnam on the side under attack- South Vietnam. It has been the people in the South who have been suffering the aggression of communism who have been blamed by the Prime Minister continually for the continuation of this war. Not a word of blame, of condemnation or rebuke has passed the Prime Minister's lips in regard to the communist side. The only words that he has uttered about the communists have been the words of understanding or the words of advice. The words that have passed from the lips of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  have been words of encouragement to the communists. But I believe that that would be about par for the course and that we would expect that from the  Deputy  Prime Minister. 
There is also the issue of the Prime Minister's attitude to the Vietnamese refugees and the sense of shame this has caused so many Australians. These are important matters. They reveal a great deal about the attitude of this Government. But I repeat that the heart of this debate is the deception practised by the Prime Minister. Deception is a fairly kind word, I venture to say, for what the Prime Minister did on 9 April in answer to a question- challenge- by the Leader of the Opposition. The 'Sydney Morning Herald' used a more appropriate word in its editorial of 30 April 1975. It stated: 
The Prime Minister has lied to the Parliament. 
It is this deception, this act which the 'Sydney Morning Herald' called lying, which has moved the Opposition today to censure the Prime Minister on behalf of the Australian people whom he deceived. By trying to divert attention away from his deception, the Prime Minister today did not remove the distrust that he has drawn upon himself; he only compounded it. By talking about matters which have nothing or little to do with his deception of the Parliament he has not allayed the fears or suspicions which his deception had created; he has only deepened them. All that the Prime Minister had to do today was to admit to the House that he was wrong when he said in the Parliament on 9 April that the 2 cables he sent to Hanoi and Saigon were not the same as they were claimed to be. He could have told the House frankly that he was in error and that after looking at the cables again he now agreed that they were substantially different. But, of course, the Prime Minister did not do that. How can any of these things justify the Prime Minister's excuses today for his own actions? The simple fact is, as the Prime Minister knows and everyone else knows, that he did not tell the truth when he said in this House on 9 April that the cables were substantially the same. The simple fact is, as the Prime Minister knows and everyone else knows, that the Prime Minister has given support to the communist cause in Vietnam. No amount of waffle by the Prime Minister or anyone else can change these facts. 
The Prime Minister has developed his own technique for dealing with these frequent attacks on his integrity. He has had to do so because his actions spark off these attacks on him. We have seen him use this technique on many occasions. This technique involves ignoring the substance of the matter and retreating under the smokescreen of raising matters which have nothing to do with the subject. To me, and I am sure to most people, this technique does nothing to help the Prime Minister; it merely gives greater substance to his guilt. We can recall a number of occasions on which the Prime Minister has used this technique. We recall the shabby way in which the Prime Minister got rid of the previous Treasurer by replacing him. What a ghastly error of judgment that was! The technique was used on that occasion. We recall the destruction of a former Speaker and the fundamental breach of principle and privilege which was involved in that episode. The technique was used then. We recall the Gair affair and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation affair when the Prime Minister misled Parliament and the Senate acted to impeach him. We recall the many occasions on which the Prime Minister has breached tradition and convention. The same technique has been used on every occasion. 
Why does the Prime Minister do this? Why does he go to such trouble to avoid the issue, to cover up and to hide? The most apparent reason is that he simply does not want to acknowledge his errors. But I think there is a deeper reason, one which is becoming clear to more and more people. It is expediency. It is becoming more and more clear that, when the Prime Minister sets himself a course, nothing will stand in the way of it; principles are cast aside, integrity is forgotten, the truth becomes a casualty and deception becomes common place. If the Prime Minister decides to get rid of a Minister, he relentlessly pursues the objective until he achieves it. If the Prime Minister decides to get rid of the  Speaker  and to assert his own domination of this House, the shamefulness of any action required to achieve that result will not stand in his way. If the Prime Minister decides to try to rig the numbers in the Senate or to try to rig a court, he sets out to do so with an admirable yet reprehensible singlemindedness. If the Prime Minister decides that he wants to side with the communists, he does so; and, when this bias is exposed, he denies it and tries to hide it 
I suppose that there are many matters, in which the Prime Minister has been involved, which will not leave irreparable damage. Of course, there will be some continuing damage resulting from the Gair affair, the ASIO affair, the Cope affair, the Crean affair and all the others. But the damage that will flow from the Prime Minister's bias towards the communist cause and the deception in which that bias has led him to engage will not be easily rectified. Certainly, his standing in the eyes of members of this Parliament and in the eyes of the Australian people has been badly damaged, if not destroyed. But what is much more important is the damage that he has done to Australia. The Prime Minister is here today and gone tomorrowI am talking about the political scene, not his trips overseas- but Australia will be here for a long time. We have to live and work with other nations and to have their trust for a long time. The great tragedy of this Prime Minister is the damage which he has done not only to himself but also to this country. We cannot earn the trust of other nations if we have a Prime Minister whose attitudes and actions are based on expediency. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The right honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
What percentage of the value of the output of the Government defence factories is now represented by nonmilitary production, and what was the percentage 6 months ago. 
What is the total employment at these factories, and what was the number 6 months ago. 
We have been listening to the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  giving forth the propaganda upon which the Government is trying to base its justification for intruding into the insurance field in Australia.  His  basic argument seems to be centred on the premise that existing insurance companies in Australia are dishonest, or incompetent, or that some of them have been involved in fraudulent practices. Therefore, the honourable member says that the only answer to this situation is for the Government to move into the field. We could apply that argument to any area of commerce. In other words, we ought to have a totally socialised community and then there would be no troubles whatsoever. All would be perfect. That is really the basis of the argument which the honourable member puts forward. If there is incompetence or improper actions by companies then it is our job to bring down rules and regulations by way of legislation to try to protect people within the community, not to buy out enterprises or to establish enterprises and run them ourselves. The Government should not think that it can do a better job than private enterprise because it knows it does not have the same efficiency, dedication or drive as private enterprise. 
We have an Insurance Act. It was revised in 1973. It has provision to cope with the circumstances which the honourable member mentioned. If it does not provide sufficiently then why does the Government not amend that legislation as a means of countering the situation? But no, the Government is not interested. We know why. It is not interested because an objective in the platform of the Australian Labor Party is the socialisation of industry and there is specific mention of the insurance industry. The Government should be honest and state that. It should not try to fool the Australian people as to its intentions. 
Today the question we need to ask ourselves is whether there is justification for an Australian Government Insurance Corporation at a time of savage inflation due in no small way to excessive government spending. At a time when bureaucracy is spreading like a bushfire we must wonder whether the Government has taken leave of its senses in wanting to push ahead with this proposal. 
Even if there is any evidence that Australia needs a Government insurance corporation- I have yet to see that there is any- could there be a worse time for bringing it in than at the moment? There could not be a worse time for the Government to embark on a new phase in its program to gain greater control over the private sector. This is at a time when there is urgent need for stimulation of that sector of the community and for the encouragement of private enterprise to try to get us out of the quagmire into which this Government has got us. What does the Government do? It dashes all hopes of the private sector. Confidence is urgently and desperately needed in our community today if we are to have full employment, job opportunity and all that goes with it. 
This legislation, with all its implications for the private sector, will deal yet another blow to the flagging business morale of the Australian community. But this government does not care. It is more concerned with political dogma; it is more concerned with its own ideology. That must be the predominating thought of this Government and to heck with people being unemployed and to heck with businesses running down and finding great difficulty surviving. This Government just pushes ahead. It is devastating the confidence and morale that the private sector needs today. 
In the eyes of the Government and the Labor Party, apparently it is a crime for anyone to fight to protect himself against Government proposals which he believes will hurt him and the community as a whole. When the Government sets out to do things which a sector of the community believes will be damaging and which that sector tries to fight, the Labor Party retaliates with every device it can find, no matter how unfair or unethical those tactics may be. The Australian insurance industry can expect to be the target of a massive campaign of denigration by the Government and by the Labor Party. This campaign has already been launched by  Senator Wheeldon,  the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby), Mr Hawke  and others. It has all the hallmarks of the Medibank campaign which saw doctors, private hospitals and health funds denigrated and abused by the Government and the Labor Party. 
This is the standard tactic of the Labor Party when it wishes to discredit anyone or any organisation which stands in the way of its plans to extend Government influence and control over a sector of the economy. Any effort by the insurance industry to protect itself, its policy holders and the private sector against a marauding socialist government will be blasted by whatever means the government can find. The public must be warned that the Government is trying to put the most attractive face on these proposals by bringing forward this Australian Government Insurance Corporation. However, the Labor Party's platform and the evidence of its actions since it has been in government make it clear that the Government's intention is to get its hands on massive funds which the insurance industry now invests in a wide range of industrial, commercial and community development projects. 
The insurance industry is by far the major source of investment funds in Australia, and there can be no doubt that the Government wishes, in accordance with its Party platform, to get control of these funds. To achieve a socialist objective these funds must be marshalled for Government purposes. Part of the Government's campaign against the insurance companies has involved allegations of a secret alliance between the Australian Mutual Provident Society and my Party with claims that the Society has contributed financially to my Party's funds. Both allegations are untrue, but this is typical of the sort of accusation we get from this unprincipled Government. The Society has openly and properly discussed the AGIC proposal with all Party members, not just those of the National Country Party. I think it is fair to say that the Society might have confidence in us being prepared to put up a fight for it because we are fighting for the interests of 3 million policy holders in this country. The Government is prepared to use whatever methods it can, however shabby and however deceitful they may be, in its campaign against the insurance industry. I make no apologies for trying to defend these policy holders whose interests are deeply affected by this Government's plans. I make no apology for drawing attention to the serious consequences for Australian development of the Government's intention to gain control of the large investment funds which the insurance industry provides. 
The Government's protests against insurance companies using policy holders' funds to fight for the interests of those policy holders would carry more conviction if there were some acknowledgment of the way in which taxpayers' money is being used by the Government for its own propaganda purposes, such as we saw with the Medibank campaign. We would have more confidence if there were some acknowledgment of the way in which some trade union officials have used union funds for Party political purposes without the knowledge or approval of rank and file members. The Government has a lot to say about alleged secret alliances. Why does it not come out into the open and tell us about its secret moves on the private sector? That is what this whole argument is about. But the Government has not yet come out openly and told us what it intends to do for the private sector. It wants to remove it and replace it with Government involvement. It is setting out to do it surreptitously by gaining control over the investment funds which the insurance industry provides to the private sector. 
It is all very well for the Government to protest that its intentions are honourable and that it does not have designs on the insurance industry or the private sector, but I think we would be well advised to assess the Government's intentions not in the light of what the Minister says but in the light of what the Party's official platform says. The Labor Party's platform says that the insurance industry and many other industries should be nationalised. The whole strategy of the Government is quite clear. It is based on offering the Australian people more and more in the way of welfare and making them more and more dependent upon government. It is an attractive offer to many people, particularly unthinking people. They do not understand that it is destroying their own self sufficiency, it is destroying the economic foundations of the country and is fuelling the fires of inflation as it boosts Government expenditure to excessive levels. They do not understand that this whole strategy means that an attack is being launched on the private sector, the productive sector. They do not understand that this strategy has led to the weakening and undermining of the whole private enterprise structure on which our prosperity and all our welfare programs are based. They do not realise that if we allow the productive base of our society to be damaged by this Government, we are allowing our chances of a better standard of living and real advances in social welfare to be damaged also. 
The Government's ultimate objectives are clear. If the Government can undermine the insurance industry and its investment activities, not immediately but ultimately, then it can itself win control over a major part of investment in Australia. This would give the Government an enormous advantage in pursuing its long term objectives. The man who said that we should be most on guard for our liberty when a government poses as a beneficient one knew what he was talking about, and that is exactly the case now where this Government is pretending that this measure is to the people's advantage, when really it ultimately will jeopardise their liberty. 
I am told that the total of funds under the control of life officers and superannuation managers is more than $12 billion which is invested in an enormous range of business, manufacturing, mining, farming and community services and facilities. There is a further $3 billion managed by general insurance companies with most of it invested in the same way. So honourable members can see what an immensely significant factor the insurance industry is in the private sector and in the national economy. What is worrying the insurance industry and what worries me and ought to worry every thinking person is the threat that is posed to this industry by the Government's proposals and the consequent threat to an important sector of investment funds, the insurance industry. There is real concern in the insurance industry that the Government's proposals could virtually decimate the funds it has- funds which are invested in productive enterprises and in a wide range of community services. This decimation would come about through the Government bringing in new schemes to take care of the needs of the community at enormous expense to the taxpayer and in a way that would put the existing insurance offices in a hopelessly handicapped situation. 
The Government is planning to move into traditional areas of insurance in a massive way. I am speaking not just of health insurance or the Australian Government Insurance Corporation, but of other areas as well. There is to be a national compensation plan, a national superannuation plan, a Government housing insurance scheme and significant changes in the superannuation scheme for the Government's own employees. There is to be a channelling of life office funds into projects sponsored by the Australian Industry Development Corporation. Of course, none of these moves by the Government should come as any real surprise. These are the predictable actions of a socialist administration. They are actions covered by the Labor Party's platform, which has as its opening statement the Party's commitment to socialism and which refers to nationalisation of a range of activities including, specifically, insurance. 
What the private sector is faced with is a Government incursion into the main uncommitted source of investment funds available to that sector- that is, into the savings of about three million Australians who have invested in insurance and superannuation funds managed by the life offices. The insurance industry sees itself as being almost in an embattled, beleaguered position. It has seen its ability to pay policyholders attractive bonuses reduced by this Government's high taxation of life offices. It has seen uncontrolled inflation, brought about largely by this Government's inept actions, slash into the value of policyholders' savings and investments. Now it sees the Government embarking on plans to enter fields which have long been catered for by the private sector. 
Housing insurance is to be provided at premium rates which existing insurance companies will be hard pressed to match because they will be competing against an insurer enjoying special privileges. The national compensation plan, as proposed by the Government, would pay large pensions irrespective of wealth and could make the need for existing forms of life insurance largely disappear. The need for other forms of insurance such as workers compensation, motor vehicle third party and personal accident and sickness insurance also could largely disappear. Instead there would be a national scheme financed by the taxpayers. The funds which the insurance companies now direct towards investment throughout the private sector would not be available from that source. 
Professor R. I. Downing has estimated the total cost of the Government's national health, compensation and superannuation schemes at $4,900m a year, of which $2,800m would represent additional expenditure. It is not hard to imagine what all this means in respect of additional taxation to the Australian and also the rate of inflation that this community has to suffer and will suffer. But I question the need to destroy what is already being done in these fields and to sacrifice existing arrangements. I question the need to destroy the incentive which encourages individuals to care for their own needs as far as possible. I question the need for action which could well lead to serious disruption of investment and of industrial and other development through the cutting off of funds now provided by the insurance industry. 
Our whole approach to the very vital and fundamental questions involved in all these matters is guided by our belief in a number of basic things. We believe that the free enterprise system is far better than the socialist system. We believe that freedom of the individual to make his own choices is important. We believe that every individual should have access to adequate provision for his future needs, preferably through his own efforts but, where necessary, through the efforts of the community as a whole. We recognise that there are shortcomings in existing arrangements for some kinds of insurance, and that these shortcomings can and should be remedied to provide adequate sickness, accident and retirement benefits. 
But we do not believe that existing arrangements have to be disrupted, or massive new bureaucratic mechanisms set up, to do these things. We believe that a natural disasters fund can be established and should be established using the existing private and State government insurance offices, instead of setting up yet another Federal Government organisation. We believe that the taxation system should properly recognise the importance of encouraging people to save and to invest their savings. We believe that basic to every other aspect of our consideration of these matters is an all-out attack on inflation, which is itself basic to our whole economic problem. And we believe that the role of the insurance industry in helping people to make their own provision against future need and in marshalling funds for the private sector is very important and should be safeguarded. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The right honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
Is the Special Minister of State aware of statements made today by a Commissioner sitting on the Australian Industries Commission inquiry into the superphosphate bounty- statements which strongly suggest that this Commissioner's view on agriculture in Australia and the use of superphosphate would make it difficult for a completely objective report to be brought forward? If the Minister is not aware of these statements, would he arrange for them to be examined and their implications for the present inquiry? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Does the statement by the Minister that he has a reputation for honouring contracts previously entered into apply also to the 8863 tonnes of uranium contracted for sale by Australian companies? Since the delivery date for these contracts begins in 1977-1 exclude the earlier deliveries by Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd which will have to be met from the Atomic Energy Commission stockpilewhen will development of the Northern Territory uranium deposits commence so that these companies can honour their contracts? 
-My question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy is a follow-up on the question I asked of him yesterday regarding the honouring of uranium contracts. Will the Minister inform the House how it is possible for the development of the Northern Territory uranium deposits to take place within 2 years in order to enable Queensland Mines Ltd and Peko-EZ to meet their 5 contracts for the supply of yellowcake to 4 different Japanese power companies? Does the Minister claim that the mines can be opened and mills constructed before 1977 when these contracts must be met? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. On the front page of yesterday's 'Courier-Mail' are quotes of statements by different people regarding the Fraser Island issue. In the middle of the third column it says this: 
The Country Party Leader  (Mr Anthony)  said last night the Cabinet decision on approval of export permits from July 1 was 'monstrous'. 

 Mr Connor has steamrolled the Cabinet. He will attempt to steamroll caucus, ' he said. 
It is not a question of whether sand mining should or should not take place on Fraser Island. 
It is a question of whether an environmental impact study is made prior to such decision or whether the whole philosophy of environmental impact assessments is to succeed.' 
I made no statement regarding Fraser Island or sand mining. The wrong name has been attributed to that statement. 
I second this motion, because we believe that this is the only fair way of handling the redistribution proposals which are to take place with regard to the various States. We believe that there should be a cognate debate so that the overall principles and the overall implication of the redistribution which will affect the various States of Australia should be considered.  Mr Speaker,  if we had a ruling from you that you would not be too limiting in what an honourable member could say on this matter, there would be no need to move for the suspension of Standing Orders. But there is concern and some disquiet that there will be undue limitation on what an honourable member can talk about. It is quite obvious that the Government is using this as a device for cunningly getting through the legislation without the maximum of debate or understanding of what is going on. It is very unusual for a number of Bills on the same subject not to be taken cognately. In fact I cannot remember an occasion when there has been a unanimous point of view on associated Bills on the Opposition side and a similar point of view on the Government side, that the Bills have not been debated cognately although separate votes have been taken on each Bill. But, no, the Government is not taking these proposals cognately. Therefore, immediately one must be suspicious. Of course we have every reason to be suspicious of the Government which is prepared to use every electoral device known in order to manipulate the electoral boundaries to its own advantage so as to entrench itself in office. This has been so characteristic of this Government since it has been in office. 

 -Mr Speaker, the reason for our wanting a cognate debate is that some of the overall issues can be discussed. I ask you this question,  Mr Speaker:  Are we allowed to talk about the litigation which is before the High Court and which makes it quite improper for a government to force through- to steamroll- this legislation when 3 States of Australia have appealed to the High Court to declare that this is invalid legislation? Are we allowed to talk on that? Are we allowed to talk on the proposal that there has to be a census in 1976 to re-determine the allocation of divisions between States? That is a major issue relating to this whole matter. Are we believing in the principle that there should be regular redistributions in this country to create uncertainty amongst members of Parliament as to where their electoral boundaries he? We do not know the answer. The only way we can get any assurance that we will have a debate of such a nature is if permission is given by this Parliament to have a cognate debate. If the Government refuses, it is hiding something. It is trying to be sneaky and get through its electoral reforms and redistributions which in its own conscience it obviously knows are unfair, bad and unreasonable. That is what we say about this legislation. It is a device to try to maximise Labor Party votes in city areas at the expense of country people. 
The redistributions are doubly bad, because when the Government talks about the idea of one vote one value- high sounding remarks- it means that the electorates biggest in size also have the biggest enrolments. How can that be fair? These are the sorts of things which ought to be considered as a whole, not just in regard to one State. The Government does not want the issues highlighted. It does not want the total picture presented to the Australian people. It wants to try to sneak this legislation through State by State. The Government is not going to sneak it through because we are going to highlight it. The fact of the matter is that a redistribution is being carried out which will require an abnormal percentage of the votes to put the present Government out of office. It is a device to try to hold the Government in office because it knows that its political appeal is dwindling and that this is the only way it has of surviving. The Opposition will not support these sorts of tactics. Therefore we are opposing in toto the redistribution in all States. 
-With due respect,  Mr Speaker,  the point I was making was that - 
-As my time is limited, I want to emphasise that the only fair and reasonable way of handling this matter and of convincing the Australian people that there is nothing devious in what the Government is doing, is by having a cognate debate. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. I invite his attention to the proposal of the Australian Council of Trade Unions Executive, as reported this morning, to press the Government to nationalise the oil industry. Is this in line with Australian Labor Party policy to take over control and ownership of Australia's energy and does the Government propose to act on the call by the ACTU that the oil industry in Australia be nationalised? Or did not the ACTU know when it made the announcement that the availability of $2,000m for energy purposes was just a hoax? 
The Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  summed up the position very well when he spoke about the Government's wonderful record in natural disaster. This is not a laughing matter. If there is one disaster area it is in the real recession that is taking place in the rural industries. To listen to the Minister speaking about the Government's record, one would think that there were no problems in the rural industries and that everything the Government has done has been to encourage and assist them. Of course, the record is just the opposite, and no amount of demagoguery on the part of the Minister will change the impression that people in the rural industries in Australia are in desperate circumstances, particularly those in the beef industry in respect of which the Minister has a direct responsibility and should know the facts. 
The facts are that in 1973, when the industry was going through a very buoyant period, this Government set up 4 committees to try to find ways and means of reducing the price of meat in Australia so that consumers could buy it at a lower price, but to heck with the producers. One committee even reached the point of recommending a tax on the export of meat. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan),  who was a member of that committee, supported that recommendation. The Government now claims that it is meeting the situation by, belatedly, giving a loan to match those to which the States have already agreed. Never before when we have had a major disaster in the rural industries has the Commonwealth Government waited until the States have acted. The Government has now given $20m of loan money to tide over those people in the most desperate situations. We have had a declared policy on this matter. We said that $100m ought to be provided, not just this month but 6 months ago, at 4 per cent interest to try to build up liquidity, and if that was not enough more money would have to be provided. Here is one of Australia's biggest industries down on its knees. Its liquidity problems are acute. Something must be done. 
Today I want to concentrate more on one aspect of rural agriculture which I believe is the most important of all and which must be discussed publicly. That aspect- it is central not only to the rural community but to the whole economy and the whole community- is the impact which inflation is having on primary producers. Despite the boasting of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  last year, this Government has utterly failed to control inflation. It is now almost completely out of control and everybody is very worried. Inflation lies at the heart of virtually all our economic problems and many of our social problems. Unemployment is largely the result of inflation. We will never restore full employment while inflation remains uncontrolled. 
For the rural sector inflation is deadly. It is an enemy that the farmer is almost powerless to fight. His capacity to fight it has been greatly weakened by this Government. Let me illustrate just how much inflation is damaging the Australian farmer, how much it is damaging his family and how much it is damaging the communities in which farmers live and work. It is estimated that the value of rural production in 1974-75 will be down by 5 per cent. Net farm income- that is what the farmer has left after paying his costs- will be less than $2,000m, or down 40 per cent on last year, if farm costs- rise by only 20 per cent. Can any honourable member tell me of any other person in the community whose income is falling at the rate of 40 per cent per annum? Yet that is what has happened to Australian farmers over the last 12 months. But that is not the end of it. One has to look at what inflation is doing to the farmer's income when he gets his 40 per cent less. He has less purchasing power with that reduced income. Furthermore, the tax burden that is imposed upon him is heavier because the tax incentives have been taken away from him. So the farmer is getting it in the neck both ways. The net farm income is reduced and there is reduced spending capacity in what he has left. 
Virtually no other person in the community is so defenceless against inflation. Nearly everyone else has some kind of automatic adjustment in his net income or is able to take action to protect himself, at least to some extent, against the damage that inflation causes. But the farmer is right at the end of the line. He sells much of his production overseas and he has to take whatever the market offers. He cannot raise his prices to cope with inflation. He cannot demand higher wages to cope with inflation. He cannot persuade anyone to bring in a system of indexation for his income. He just has to sit back and watch people in every other sector of the community protecting themselves, with varying degrees of success, against inflation- and often making inflation worse in the process- while he is powerless to do anything to protect himself. That is why the question of inflation is so vital. 
This Government has done a great deal to reduce the farmer's capacity to fight the inflation that is crippling him. The taxation concessions which were used, and used to tremendous effect, to encourage investment in farming, property improvement and conservation measures have been taken away by this Government. The bounty on superphosphate has been abolished at a time when the cost of fertiliser is rocketing in this country. There has been a 188 per cent increase in the cost of fertiliser between December 1973 and December 1974. Yet, the Government has the audacity to remove the bounty on superphosphate. I repeat: There has been a 188 per cent increase in the cost of fertiliser. How is it possible for farmers ever to cope with these sorts of cost increases? The farmer has been put into a state of utter confusion and uncertainty about the future of the bounty, so he has stopped buying superphosphate. This is disastrous not only for production and productivity and for the whole of the production and distribution industry but also for the future of agriculture at a time when the world desperately needs more food production. 
This Government has been criminal in the way it has discouraged agricultural production. All sorts of assistance measures that were used to help the rural sector have been taken away. The position has been made much more difficult now by the rate of inflation. Yet, we heard the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  yesterday and the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory today bragging about the assistance that they are giving to farmers. Let me inform the Australian community, including the farmers, that the great bulk of this assistance, if not all of it, has been provided by way of loans on which interest has to be paid. This is happening while many other sections of the community are receiving grants to help tide them over. These grants are being given to some big industrial concerns such as Australian Pulp and Paper Manufacturers Ltd and Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australia, companies which make a very big profit each year. This Government is giving patronage to such companiesalmost a direct subsidy by way of grantwhilst the rural community is left abandoned to struggle on as best it can. 
Let us look at the way in which some of the other costs have risen during the year 1974. The cost of fuel is up by 22 per cent. Spare parts costs have increased by 22 per cent. Machinery costs have increased by 27 per cent. Farm wages have risen by nearly 40 per cent, rates and taxes by 20 per cent and interest charges by 72 per cent. Overall, farm costs for 1974 increased by 35 per cent. The consumer price index rose by 16 per cent. That means that the cost of the major items a farmer must buy rose by twice as much as the things that the average person in the Australian community has to buy. But while the income of the average person was going up, the farmer's income was going down. The farmer is caught in the most vicious squeeze between inflation on the one hand and reduced income on the other hand. It is because of this that the National Country Party of Australia makes no apologies whatever for fighting to get a better deal for the rural sector and for people who live and work in country areas and provincial areas. When the Minister berates us for asking for help in the rural industry, I say that he should go out to some of these farmers in desperate areas. When this Government can spend millions of dollars on the Regional Employment Development scheme and on other projects, bow to the pressure of the trade unions and grant shorter working hours for people, let the Minister tell the farmers that they should not appeal for help to carry them through these difficult circumstances. 
In the 10 years before the Labor Party came to office- this is up to 1972- farm costs were rising at the rate of 4 per cent per annum. Last year they rose by 35 per cent. That is an intolerable situation for the Australian primary producer. He has been put in this situation largely because of the policies of this present Government. This inflationary situation is rapidly reducing the Australian farming community to a peasant society. The question that can be fairly asked of this antirural Government is whether this is a deliberate policy. If it is not, the Government must knuckle down to tackling inflation. It must reduce the enormous deficit the Treasurer has run up. It must lower the rate at which it is spending money. The Government should free the Australian dollar and allow it to find its own level in the international market place. It should honour the promise that it has made repeatedly to make finance available to farmers on sensible terms. It should honour the promise that the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  made in his Labor Party policy statement last year to introduce an income stabilisation scheme. The Minister made a categorical promise. But what happened? The income stabilisation scheme has been shoved off to the Industries Assistance Commission, along with 60 other matters, for examination. The Government should introduce indexation of taxes so that self-employed people such as farmers and others who do not get automatic income rises will at least receive some relief from the impact of inflation. The Government should restore the bounty on superphosphate. Do not let me hear any nonsense about the cost that would be involved. The money involved in a fertiliser bounty is returned to the Government over and over again through the increased taxes it collects on the higher production in the community. 
The fundamental cause of the farmer's problem today is uncontrolled inflation. Inflation has always been a major problem for primary producers but it is now more serious than ever. Inflation is at the heart of our whole economic problem. That is why I say to the whole community that we have a responsibility to do whatever we can to confront this problem. Unless the Government faces up to this problem the Australian rural industries will be devastated and ruined within a few years. They cannot survive a 35 per cent increase in costs when farm incomes have gone down by 40 per cent in the last year. They must inevitably go down further if we look at commodity prices and the trends that are taking place now. I say to the Government that it is guilty of a dereliction of its responsibility to this nation and the rural people unless it comes to grips with inflation. 
It will take many years to re-establish the high reputation of the Commonwealth Minister responsible for electoral matters after the appalling, biased political performance of the present Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  Today we have seen him present the maps and make the appropriate speeches in this House in relation to those maps. But those speeches have not been objective speeches presenting a case to the Australian people. They have reeked with party politics and they have done everything possible to poison the thinking of the Australian people against the country people and the National Country Party members who represent the majority of those people. It has been a vendetta carried out against the Country people of this nation by a person who has a political hatred of country people. The hatred reeks out of him. He cannot control himself. We are not getting a decent representative administration on behalf of the Australian people; all we are getting is a presentation that one would think emanated from a Labor Party political meeting. It is disgraceful and I hope that when the next Minister takes over we will have higher ethics emanating from that position. 
The Minister has tried very hard to disregard country people. He does not care if their voices are weakened or whether country seats will be eliminated. But he has been much more cunning in trying to divide the Liberal Party and the National Country Party in this House. He wants to make out that the redistribution in the metropolitan area of Sydney, as in Melbourne, is quite fair and above board. But he cannot fool the members of the Liberal Party. By some strange coincidence, the way the boundaries have fallen in these areas just happens to give an advantage to the Labor Party in those seats which are narrowly won by the Liberal Party, and in those seats that have been narrowly won by the Labor 
Party it just happens to give the Labor Party a slight advantage. This is so in all those areas to a point that if there were to be another election on these new boundaries the Labor Party could win with a percentage vote substantially less than it had at the last election. For the National Country Party and the Liberal Party to beat the Labor Party they would want a greatly increased percentage vote. How can that be called a fair redistribution? It is nothing more than a blatant gerrymander. 
The facts of the matter before the House demonstrate yet again the impropriety for which this Government is noted. It is most improper that the redistribution of electoral boundaries should be proceeding in this House at the present time. The Act under which this redistribution is proceeding is at this moment under challenge in the High Court of Australia. Three States- New South Wales, Western Australia and Queensland- have asked the High Court to declare the Commonwealth Electoral Act (No. 2) invalid. The hearing began yesterday, the very day on which this Government brought these proposals into this Parliament. Yet the Government, with its customary contempt for such legal questions and for established conventions, is proceeding along the path to a redistribution. 
The Government's determination to persist in such an improper course of action must itself raise the question of the Government's motives. These motives, of course, are well known. They have been spelt out quite clearly from the time the Minister took office when he declared quite openly that he was going to try to get rid of Country Party seats and country seats. Why did he say that? He said it because Labor members know that the policies of the Labor Party are alien to the thinking of country people. The Government adopts the attitude that if it cannot win these seats it will abolish them. This is the most ruthless political tactic we have ever seen in this country. The Government's motives are to reduce the strength and the political voice of country people and to give greater strength to the political voice of city electors, and to Labor Party supporters in particular, by maximising the Labor vote in city areas. 
My Party is unequivocally opposed to this redistribution. We opposed it even before the maps were presented because the ground rules had been changed unfairly for the first time since federation. Every previous Labor government was prepared to accept those rules; but not this Government- not this unprincipled Government. Whatever it does as far as electoral laws are concerned is designed basically to strengthen the position of the Labor Party. The Government, having regard to its fading fortunes, is getting more desperate to do whatever it can to try to manipulate the electoral law. We oppose the proposed redistribution, firstly, because the Act under which it is taking place is, as I have said, under legal challenge. We oppose it because it is unnecessary. I will explain that later. We oppose it because it will cause severe and unnecessary disruption and inconvenience to many people and it will have to be carried out all over again after the next election. We oppose it because it is based on ground rules which have been changed by this Government in a way that ignores justice and that ignores the right of every Australian to enjoy equality of representation in this Parliament. We oppose it because the proposals brought down by the Commissioners go far beyond even what the Minister had in mind when he had the rules changed. 
My Party does not often find itself in agreement with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  But in one matter we do. We agree with the Prime Minister's view, which he stated in this House some time ago, that the 20 per cent tolerance in enrolments allowed under the previous Act was 'perfectly reasonable'. What the honourable gentleman said is recorded in Hansard. Mind you, these remarks were made when he was a newer member of this Parliament, that is, before he got a lust for power and the determination to stay in office. He is reported in Hansard as saying: 
At least, the numbers should be approximately equal, within the perfectly reasonable latitude of 20 per cent above or below the quota as allowed by the Commonwealth Electoral Act. Country members experience difficulties in representing their electorates. 
In 1955, when speaking on the Commonwealth Electoral Act. But, of course, with a desperation to stay in office these things change. If the Prime Minister thinks the 20 per cent allowance is perfectly reasonable, why has the Government forced through a reduction to 10 per cent? The answer is quite clear: Despite the Prime Minister's belief that 20 per cent is perfectly reasonable, the Labor Party, for the most cynical and blatant political motives, has tried to give itself an increased advantage by reducing the tolerance to 10 per cent. There can be no other reason. In the same speech he went on to say: 
I suggest that the Constitutional Committee which the Prime Minister -  then  Mr Menzies-  has promised for several years to appoint and the appointment of which he has consistently postponed, be appointed and that it consider means of ensuring that the Australian Constitution is altered in order that no gerrymandering shall be possible and that the principles enunciated in our electoral act shall be preserved and enshrined in the Constitution. 
That is, that the 20 per cent tolerance should be written into the Constitution. It is not very often that my Party agrees with the Minister for Services and Property on something he has said on this question. He said: 
Equality of political rights is inherent in a truly democratic state. 
We agree with that entirely. We dispute very vigorously that this redistribution, and the rules under which it is being carried out, will achieve that objective. The Minister's view of political equality depends on there being the same number of voters in every electorate, as far as practicable. He would enforce that provision to the last voter, if he could. 
The Minister says that so long as he has in his 3-square-mile electorate the same number of voters as the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  has in his giant electorate, or the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  has, or the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  has in his 900 000 square-mile electorate, then political equality is assured. What rubbish! What an undemocratic, unfair, twisted attitude! No account whatever is to be taken of the differences in the representational tasks involved between compact electorates and vast electorates with all sorts of transport, communications and other special difficulties. Every democratic country in the world that I know of, except Australia, makes provision for the representation of remote regions. Every democratic country except Australia provides for considerably smaller numbers of voters in large, scattered electorates than in tiny, compact city electorates- and that includes Britain, the mother of parliaments, where a tolerance of several hundred per cent is provided, Canada and the United States of America. They do this because they know that real political equality lies not in a strict mathematical formula but in giving every citizen, no matter where he lives, the greatest possible opportunity to enjoy full political rights and full political representation. But that is the last thing in this Minister's mind and this Government's mind. 
They could not care less about real political rights. Their only concern is the good of the Australian Labor Party. 
When we look at the actual enrolments proposed by the Commissioners, we find that the reduction in the tolerance has not only been put into effect, it has been taken to the opposite extremes- so much so, that where previously some allowance was made for the difficulties of representing large country electorates by giving them smaller enrolments, the reverse is now to apply. Under this proposal, the big enrolments will be in the big country electorates and the small enrolments in the small city electorates. One wonders just how far this Government is prepared to go in its vendetta against country people when it supports this kind of proposal. 
The normal justification for a redistribution is that there is a certain degree of imbalance in enrolments in a certain number of States. The normal purpose of a redistribution is to correct electoral inequalities and, simultaneously, to correct State entitlements to seats, that is, to provide the number of seats which each State should have under the formula laid down by the law. There is no requirement for a redistribution on these grounds at present. Every State has the correct number of seats. When the next census is taken next year, it seems certain that it will show that New South Wales should lose a seat and Queensland and Western Australia each gain one. This makes the present redistribution both unnecessary and ridiculous. 
It is unnecessary because a redistribution will be required after next year's census and it is ridiculous because it is based on State entitlements which clearly will change very soon. So all the work that is being done now will have to be done again or, in some cases, completely undone. Why is the Government so insistent that a redistribution be held now, followed by another one in only two or three years ' time? The answer should be clear to anyone. The Government is desperate to give itself a much better chance- an unfair chance- in the next election. 
It is interesting that this is the first time Australia has ever had a redistribution of boundaries intended to apply for only one election. Thousands of electors are to be disturbed so that this redistribution can take place to benefit the Australian Labor Party, and thousands are to be disturbed all over again when substantial changes have to be made at the further redistribution which must take place in a couple of years' time. (Extension of time granted.) I thank the House and the Minister for Services and Property, who moved that I be given an extension of time. I think it could well prove the case in future under the new rules that we will have a redistribution after, or for, every election. It seems to me to be quite absurd to be changing boundaries and disturbing electorates so that members will be unsure of whom they represent. 
It is very hard to avoid coming to the conclusion,  Mr Speaker,  that these proposals represent a gerrymander that will favour the Labor Party. In saying that I want to make it clear that I am in no way reflecting on the Commissioners. They are bound to act in accordance with the law and of course they have done so. But changes in the law have been forced through this Parliament by the Labor Party so that the Commissioners now have been virtually forced to come up with the grossly unfair proposals we now have before us. 
If we look at the results of the last election, which was fought on the present boundaries, it can be seen that the present distribution is a fair one. In May last year Labor won 52 per cent of the seats with 49.3 per cent of the votes. The Opposition won 48.3 per cent of the seats with 46.8 per cent of the votes. The proposed boundaries will bring about an unfair result. Yet the Labor Party's scheme means that it can stay in office with fewer votes. The Opposition will need more votes to put the Government out of office. In other words, it will take a bigger percentage swing to change the Government. Some authorities have calculated that the Australian Labor Party will now be able to remain in office with 45 per cent of the vote while the Liberal Party and the National Country Party will have to gain at least 55 per cent of the vote to form a government. 
It is clear that the purpose of the new boundaries and of the new law is to secure the Labor Party in office. It is obvious from these proposals that the Labor Party would take 3 seats from the Opposition, would have ten of its marginal seats strengthened and would see several Oppositionheld seats abolished. One of those seats would be Riverina in New South Wales. Is it any wonder that the ALP Government is asking the Parliament to approve this blatantly unfair redistribution? The Parliament will not be impressed by the old Labor Party argument that there is little difference between the seat of Kalgoorlie and the new seat of Flynn in Queensland. Kalgoorlie has one or two major centres whereas the new seat of Flynn stretches from north of Mount Isa right down to nearly Tenterfield in New South Wales and right across Queensland taking in an area almost from the Northern Territory border to Rockhampton. This area will be represented by one person. It has a multitude of small centres and there is not one major centre in the whole area. Yet the Labor Party thinks this is fair. 
The same remarks apply to the seat of Gwydir in New South Wales which is in much the same sort of situation. It will take in 40 per cent of New South Wales. It has 40 significant centres, municipalities and organisations which all have to be represented by a member. Of course, a sitting member with only 3 square miles in his electorate such as the Minister for Services and Property would have no conception of the responsibility which a member undertakes in a country area. 
The seat of Riverina will be abolished. The people of Riverina are highly incensed by this move. It is a seat which has existed since Federation and is a complete community of interest, so much so that the electors signed a petition which is now incorporated in the report of the Distribution Commissioners. The protest submissions up 392 pages in the report and represent the view of 10 000 electors in that electorate. These 10 000 electors signed a petition asking that there be some alteration. Even this massive protest did not dint the Commissioners one iota. The boundaries were not changed in any way whatsoever. It is a fact that there does not seem to be any way in which country people will be able to express their attitude to this undemocratic and unfair redistribution which is now taking place under the law under which the Commissioners have to operate. The National Country Party of Australia because it believes in a fair go for all Australians rejects this proposal which is before the Parliament. 
I ask the Acting Treasurer: Will he clarify the situation regarding Government support for the wool market? Will he state whether the Government provides finance for the industry in the form of grants or in the form of repayable interest bearing loans or whether the Government merely guarantees repayment of loans negotiated with the banks by the Australian Wool Corporation? Would a reduced floor price for wool mean a direct reduction in government spending or a lower potential commitment? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to speak to the motion before the Chair. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the Leader of the National Country Party of  Australia be not further heard. 
asked the Attorney-General upon notice: 
What capacity exists to safeguard the North West Shelf gas and oil installations from sabotage. 
Have discussions taken place with the United Kingdom authorities who are making studies of the problems of defending North Sea installations; if not, why not. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In order to restore confidence in the wool industry as quickly as possible will the Prime Minister make an unequivocal statement indicating that the Government is resolved to support the wool market firmly and that there will be no retreat from this strong support? 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. He will recall telling the honourable member for Wentworth yesterday that Australia will not export uranium to any country which has not subscribed to the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty. Is it a fact that Japan has not subscribed to this Treaty? If so, is this the reason why the Government has not concluded arrangements for the development of the Ranger deposit? Does his answer yesterday mean that the Government will not allow undertakings given to Japan to be honoured? 
I ask the Prime Minister whether at his request the Treasurer recently wrote to all Ministers asking them to work out ways of reducing their spending programs by 5 per cent, 10 per cent and 15 per cent, if that proved necessary. Does this indicate that the Government has not committed itself to reducing the rate of increase in spending. Will he make such a firm commitment as a demonstration to the whole community that the Government is determined to give a strong lead in the fight against inflation? 
The Opposition wishes to raise as a matter of public importance its concern about the policies pursued- and the lack of policies- by this Government in relation to the supply of energy resources to Japan. No other country was so adversely affected by the Arab oil embargo as Japan. No other country is so completely dependent on outside sources for its energy needs as Japan. No other country has such industrial might which is vulnerable to foreign sources of energy. It was Japan's desire to achieve assured supplies of fuel and other vital resources which was the prime reason that drove Japan into the war in 1941. Today we see countries around the world on which Japan depends for its energy supplies all attempting, in one way or another, to squeeze and exploit Japan's dependence on outside energy supplies to their own advantage. While attempts by other countries to squeeze or exploit . Japan may not hold any immediate dangers to their economies and the short term export prospects of those countries, this is not the case where Australia is concerned. The effects on Australia which would result from any undermining of Japan's economic stability would be severe. Australia and Japan are mutually dependent in terms of trade: 9 per cent of Japan's total imports originate in Australia and 30 per cent of Australian exports go to Japan while 20 per cent of our imports come from Japan. While Australia, as a supplier of raw materials and as a market for Japan's manufactured goods, obviously is important to Japan, Japan is of vital importance to Australia. As  Dr T.  B. Millar commented at a symposium on Australian- Japanese relations held in Canberra in 1 973: 
Japan is far more important to Australia than we are to it. 
On the other hand, a leading Japanese economist has stated: 
The proportion of raw materials and resources supplied to her by Australia is so high that without it Japan's economy would not be viable. 
Both countries have more than just a common interest arising out of mutual trading relationships. The economies of Australia and Japan are so interrelated that any adverse movement in the Japanese economy will be reflected in Australia. It is in our interests, therefore, to ensure that as a major supplier of materials and resources to Japan we develop and maintain long term export arrangements with the Japanese. 
The policies pursued by this Government as regards the export of certain vital resources to Japan threaten to affect the continued stability of Japanese industry and the Japanese economy. The so-called resources diplomacy expounded by this Government, and in particular by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  will be counter-productive in its results as its effects on Japan's industrial strength and economic situation could well rebound on Australian exports. No doubt this was the reason for the Renouf outburst last year. The Minister for Minerals and Energy has pursued a policy aimed at obtaining higher returns for Australian exports to Japan. Whilst this policy has obvious short term advantages, when pursued to its ultimate extent it is not only commercially questionable but is also headed for ruinous economic circumstances. The Minister's success in increasing iron ore prices just a bit more than those negotiated in 1973 now threatens to develop into a policy of squeezing the Japanese for all they are worth. 
Australia has become a world pacesetter in coal pricing. If the Minister's latest proposals for coal pricing prevail the price of coal will have increased by far more than the rise in the price of oil as a result of the embargo by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The Minister is playing a dangerous game because he is forcing the Japanese to look to alternative, cheaper sources of supply and is straining our relationships. It is also clear that the Minister is delaying in replying to the Japanese in the current negotiations for a new export price for Australian coal. The Minister intends to exploit the earning capacity of the coal mining industry by imposing a tax on Australian coal exporters. It seems that the Minister intends to fix a price with the Japanese in line with the tax which he will impose on coal miners. This is yet another example of the Minister's arbitrary and heavy handed approach to the Japanese. It is the Japanese who will have to share the tax increase if it is associated with higher pricing arrangements. 
The second main policy of the Minister for . Minerals and Energy is to bring about full Australian ownership of Australia's natural resources. Indeed, he goes beyond this to a policy of full public ownership of energy resources. Such a policy, while superficially appealing, is not only naive in its assumptions but is also dangerous in its implications. Take the issue of uranium. Here Japan has a need which is vital to her future industrial and economic development. Plans are under way to construct 35 nuclear power plants in Japan by 1985. Japan is desperate to obtain long term supplies of uranium. The Government attempted to placate the former Japanese Prime Minister,  Mr Tanaka,  when he was here last November by coming up with a plait to develop the Ranger uranium deposit in the Northern Territory. However, it is obvious that no development has taken place at Ranger because of the intransigence of the Minister for Minerals and Energy. The Minister has conducted a campaign against the Ranger partners with the objective, I believe, of sending both companies into bankruptcy so that he can obtain control over the uranium resources at Ranger. A similar campaign has been waged against Queensland Mines Ltd. 
The Minister states that contracts between Australian companies and Japanese power companies for the supply of uranium will be met initially out of the Atomic Energy Commission's stockpile. This will cover all the contracts for 1977, but what about 1978 onwards? Does the Minister expect us to believe that mines can be opened and mills constructed in time to permit production to commence in 1978? The Minister knows that the companies must reach agreement with their Japanese purchasers within the next few months on production and supply schedules. He knows that it is impossible for them to make any firm agreement with the Japanese and hence to meet their contracts. By cutting off this source of uranium to Japan the Minister for Minerals and Energy is threatening to bring considerable hardship and dislocation to Japan's energy plans for the rest of this century.  His  latest grandiose talk of developing uranium enrichment alone must be seen by the Japanese as shunning them. The adverse effects on Japan's economy which such action would cause have serious implications for Australia. Japan is our largest customer. We have a vested interest in her continued development and prosperity. By his actions, the Minister for Minerals and Energy is striking at the heart of Japan's continued industrial prosperity and must drive Japan to other countries for her supplies. The policy of Australian ownership of energy resources also has meant that Japan's future requirements of natural gas have not been met from Australia. At present Australia exports one million tonnes a year of LPG from Bass Strait to Japan- an earlier arrangement with which the Minister has just had to live. 
However, the interest which the Japanese have shown in the Cooper Basin and the north west shelf gas reserves has met complete rebuff from the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Again, by frustrating the development of these resources, the Minister has added significantly to the difficulties which Japan has experienced in filling its energy requirements. If the Minister had not been so belligerent 18 months ago in saying that we did not need any Japanese involvement m the north west we could well have had our natural gas and allied industries well under way by now. Now they shy away not knowing what our policies are and not wanting to be humiliated by any rejection or rebuff. The uncertainty and stress which have entered into Australian-Japanese trade relations since 1972 as a result of the policy of this Government have been reflected in the difficulties over the conclusion of the Nara Treaty. The main stumbling block to agreement is the Australian Government's insistence that all commercial arrangements entered into be subject to its approval. The Japanese fear this would commit them to a situation where they could be subjected to extortionary demands. It is obvious that their experience in the last 2 years at the hands of the Minister for Minerals and Energy is the basis of this fear. 
The Opposition is in favour of the development of closer and stronger relationships between Australia and Japan. Some may think that dangers are involved in Australia's becoming too dependent on Japanese markets for its exports. 
The Opposition does not believe that this is so. Indeed, apart from the obvious question- where else does such a highly developed and industrialised market exist for Australia to export her natural resources- there are many advantages to be gained by Australia as a result of a closer relationship with Japan. The Opposition believes that Australia would obtain large benefits from the extension of our present trading relationship to cover other areas such as investment, technology and knowhow. Apart from being a major market, Japan is also a major source of capital. It is also a very attractive area of investment for Australia. 
The future development of Australia's natural resources will depend on large amounts of over-' seas capital, and the Opposition believes the trading relationship which exists between Australia and Japan should be developed further into an economic relationship which is broadly based. It should include not only trade but also capital and economic co-ordination. There is also a further reason for greater co-operation between Australia and Japan. Japan is one of the main strengths of the Western economy. It stands as a bulwark against the advance of communism not only in this area of the world, but also throughout the Western world. I believe that it is the aim of the communist powers to undermine the economic strength of Japan, because of the effects this would have on the whole of the Western world. By undermining the Japanese economy, the whole Western economy would be placed in jeopardy. I believe that this is the prime object of international socialism. 
The policies and actions of this Government make one wonder whether Australia has become part of this movement to undermine Japan. This Government has consistently and unscrupulously used every opportunity to squeeze the Japanese, to hinder their access to development projects in Australia and to impede their access to Australian uranium- the basic ingredient of their energy needs for the future. These actions must give rise to doubts as to the fitness of this Government, especially of certain Ministers, regarding Japan. Their actions provide every reason to believe that Australia has joined with international socialist and communist powers in their policy to undermine Japan and the West. The confusion, uncertainty and procrastination by the Government in not being able to give the Japanese firm and positive policies in relation to minerals and energy must do immeasurable harm to our relations with Japan. The Opposition has positive policies and will see that they are honoured, and the great trade bridge and the trust and confidence built by the 1957 Japan-Australia trade treaty will continue and will be strengthened. The Opposition acknowledges Japan's pressing energy needs and will do its best to support her. 

 - Mr Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
The Committee divided: (The  Chairman- Mr J.  M. Berinson) 
Ayes.......... 60 
Noes.......... 55 
Majority....... 5 

<graphic href="095131197506030_33_2_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="095131197506030_33_2_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="095131197506030_34_2_4_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="095131197506030_34_2_5_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="095131197506030_34_2_3_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to speak to this Bill- 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
My question which is addressed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy concerns the Minister's interpretation of clause 5 of the agreement dated 30 October 1974 relating to the development of the Ranger uranium deposit. Will the Minister inform the House whether the 72  Vi  per cent contribution by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to the development of a mill is a capital payment which will give the Commission 50 per cent equity in the project, or is it just a loan for which the Commission will obtain 50 per cent of the production? 
-My question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy is supplementary to the one I asked him earlier. In view of the fact that the Government is not entering into any equity arrangement with the Ranger consortium but wants to confiscate 50 per cent of the production from the mines on the ground that the Australian Government owns the mining resources of the Northern Territory, I ask: Is it now the policy of the Government to acquire 50 per cent of the production of any new uranium project in the Northern Territory? Is this policy to apply to other mining projects in the Northern Territory? 
I wish to second the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders- 
Motion ( by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the Leader of the National Country Party be not further heard. 
Can the Minister for Labor and Immigration give the House some indication of how many people would be unemployed at present if the Regional Employment Development scheme was not operating? Can he also indicate how many people who otherwise would be out of work are undergoing retraining?  Mr Speaker,  I ask these questions so that the Minister may be able to give his swan song explanation of how successful he has been in handling the growth of record of unemployment during his period of responsibility. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I claim to have been misrepresented today, and tonight on a program conducted by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  who falsely accused me of maligning the Australian Government whilst I was in Japan. That is completely false and dishonest. I challenge the Minister to prove his remarks. When I was in Japan I made it quite clear that I was there representing Australia. I would not criticise my Government and I would not criticise the Minister, even though I must admit it was hard at times not to do so when people found fit to criticise the Minister. 
I would like to associate my Party and myself with the condolence remarks of the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition at the very sad and sudden death of  Senator Bertie  Richard Milliner. Whilst I did not have much involvement with him my Senate colleagues speak of him as a very warm-hearted and friendly person and one for whom they had the highest regard. He was a very active senator and was involved with many committees. He entered the Senate as a prominent member of the Australian Labor Party from Queensland and had a long and active involvement with the trade union movement in that State. We are very sad to see one of our colleagues leave us so suddenly. The Prime Minister remarked on the unfortunate coverage of his funeral by the media last week. I was not in the country but I have heard a lot of remarks similar to those that the Prime Minister made and I feel sorry for his family that there was such a coverage. On behalf of my Party I would like to extend our deepest condolence to his wife and his family. 
We have listened with a great deal of interest to the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Labor Party, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  defending himself against a charge which has been made against him by his Leader, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I think all of us in this House would agree that the honourable member for Lalor is a man of great resilience, of great courage and, indeed, of considerable persuasion. He makes a case today on the basis that if he did mislead this Parliament he did so unwittingly and that he has no recollection of signing a certain letter. Having been a Minister and knowing the intensity of work that a Minister has to undertake, I am prepared to give goodwill to such an argument; I know that sometimes one is not aware or one forgets what one might have signed, if one has an enormous volume of work. But it is a matter for members of this House to make up their own minds whether the argument presented is to be believed. Certainly it is very much a matter for the honourable member's own Party to determine. 
However, I am disappointed that the honourable member has levelled such a heavy attack on the media. Certainly the media deserve to be attacked at times. They are deserving of the heaviest condemnation if what the honourable member said about bribes being offered to his staff is true. But we would not have got the amount of information that we have now in regard to the whole sordid affair of overseas money raising if it had not been for the activities of the Press in trying to prize information out of a Government which remains secretive about the whole operation. One of the great virtues of a free democracy is that the Press has the right to try to obtain information and to print that information. The Press can build a man up; but provided he has a sound case and strength of character the Press cannot destroy him. If there is some substance to the arguments which the Press has brought forward and which have produced a situation of crisis, as there is today within the Labor Party and the Government as a result of the Government trying to conceal or hide the facts from the Australian people, this Government and individuals in it are deserving of whatever criticism they get from the Press. 
Today we listened to the Prime Minister. With his usual rhetoric he tried to smooth over the whole operation as if there were no irregularities or illegality in his Government's overseas loan raising. He simplified the Government's actions almost to the point of creating the impression that there was virtue in what the Government was doing by hopping on the old emotional bandwagon with phrases such as 'buying back the farm' and the old socialist doctrinaire philosophy of buying out private enterprise by putting ourselves in hock to some foreign lenders whom we do not know. We do not know whether the money was to come from foreign governments, or whether it was illegal Arab money or even Mafia money. The Prime Minister tried to put forward a case that everything the Government has done has been above board, honourable and proper. 
I think that the Prime Minister condemned himself by the speech he made today. If the Prime Minister condemns the former Treasurer for seeking money by sacking him from the position of Treasurer and then by disposing of him completely from the Ministry, I believe that he and the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  are deserving of even greater censure. I say this because they conspired to corrupt the Constitution. They conspired to get around the proper methods of raising money overseas. They obtained Executive Council approval to go overseas and raise $2,000m on the assumption that the money was to be used for temporary purposes, that it was to be used to enable Australia to meet its balance of payments commitments, that it was to be used in respect of the energy crisis in our country and that it was to be used in regard to unemployment But today we are told by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Minerals and Energy that this money is to be used for long term investment in the electrification of railways, in port facilities, in the development of gas, in the development of coal and in the development of the hydrogenation of coal. This is the first time that we have heard the facts. The memorandum with the Executive Council minute was a fabrication. The Government misled the Governor-General and it has not told the Aus.tralian people the truth. 
This matter has been going on for 6 to 7 months and we have had to squeeze every drop of information out of the Government to know what has been going on. But what we do know is that the previous Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  had grave reservations- indeed, I think strong objectionsabout using unorthodox and questionable methods of raising money overseas. He wanted no part of funny money being raised by funny men for funny purposes in Australia and he is deserving of credit for that. It seems that because he was a man of integrity and standing and was prepared to take the advice of his Treasury officials, who have provided the normal and orthodox channels for raising loans overseas, he was discharged from his office and put in another position. Now we have another Minister being removed. Why? Because he has fallen out with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Minerals and Energy. 
This whole matter really has made a mockery of our nation. The overseas loan fiasco has shown the world something that Australians have known for a long time: The Whitlam Government is a fumbling and grossly incompetent government in the management of the nation's economic affairs. Its negligence and management incapacity which has caused so much damage is now visible to the outside world. The Prime Minister talked about our triple A rating a few weeks ago. I wonder what it is now? Nobody else is to blame other than the Prime Minister who was party to an Executive Council minute giving approval for the Minister for Minerals and Energy to go overseas and borrow money. The approval was not merely to examine the situation and see what the prospects were, as the previous Treasurer tried to do. With the issue of a promissory note, the Minister for Minerals and Energy could go overseas and borrow $2,000m at a proposed interest rate of 8.35 per cent compounded over a period of 20 years. Do honourable members know what that would mean to future generations in this country who would have to pay back the loan? An amount of $ 18,000m would have to be paid back by future generations. For what purpose? To satisfy the doctrinaire philosophies of this socialist sitting opposite me, the Minister for Minerals and Energy, who wants to get his hands on mineral resources and mining activities in this country. 
The sum of $ 18,000m is the compounded figure for a loan of $4,000m for a period of 20 years at an interest rate of 8.35 per cent- an enormous amount of money. This loan was to be raised just so that the Government could own and run these enterprises which it believes it can run better than private enterprise. Because of its hatred of private enterprise it wants to get into these areas. We set up the Australian Industry Development Corporation which allowed Government involvement in enterprises if they could be shown to be bona fide, worthwhile projects and we passed legislation and allowed this Government to go overseas and borrow up to $250m, as the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said today. But that was not going to satisfy the Minister for Minerals and Energy. No. He wanted to get his hands on much greater sums of money. 
It is quite clear now why we have had no major mining development projects since this Government has been in office. It is because the Minister for Minerals and Energy has been stymieing all developments until he can get his own hands on them. What he has been waiting for is to get the finance to make them nationalised, socialised projects. Imagine this. He claims that Australia has great mineral and energy resources, but in 2Vi years not one major project for their development has been undertaken. There are enormous uranium deposits and great new coalfields in Queensland to be opened up and offshore gas fields in north-western Australia to be developed, yet nothing has happened. The companies in these areas have had frustration after frustration, not knowing what the policies of the Government are. Other countries which have wanted to lock in with these mineral developments have not been able to get a positive answer. There is no clarity as to what the Government's decisions are. It is becoming clear now that the Minister for Minerals and Energy is the man responsible because he has wanted to nationalise the industry, and he has managed to link in the Prime Minister with his socialist philosophies. 
Can we afford a situation in which a government acts so secretly and furtively? What else is it doing that we do not know about? It has taken us 6 months to get as much information as we have, although even today we have not been able to get the full facts surrounding the matter of overseas loan negotiations. How much illegality is there? How much corruption is there? When somebody can get a 216 per cent commission, is there not ground for wondering where the money which is raised might finish up? Enormous sums of money are involved. Most other countries which have a similar standard of living to us- the United States of America, England and the European countries- have obtained enormous Arab loans over the past 12 months, but the negotiation has been on a government to government basis with government officials doing the work. Why call in some unknown person? If  Mr Khemlani  is such an outstanding, worthy character as we have been told today, where is he now? Why does he not stand up, front the world and tell us what is going on? Of course, we do not know where he is. 
What we need is a full inquiry into this whole matter. It needs to be more than just an inquiry; it needs to be a royal commission so that the full facts can be obtained to see how deeply this matter goes. We need to know the real purposes for which this Government needed the money. We need to know the legal aspects. Was the Governor-General deceived? Was the Loan Council by-passed? Were the State premiers misled in this matter? Why were unknown intermediaries called into action to raise this money? What would be the impact on the economy of bringing $2,000m into Australia? Today the Prime Minister told a new story. He said that the Government was going to raise this money before it carried out a feasibility study of projects because it would be wrong to do the feasibility study first and then go looking for the money. In other words we start off with the cart and then look for the horse. When he does raise this money what is he going to do with it? He is going to reinvest it in New York so that it does not have any effect on our economy at the moment because of the inflationary pressures. It is just one cover-up after another- a new story every day. All that we can get out of the Government is a new story trying to cover up more and more exposures that come forward. One thing that is certain is that Australia's reputation has been damaged and will remain damaged both within this country and overseas until there is a full inquiry and all the facts are known. When the most senior people in this country are involved there is only one way to have such an inquiry, and that is through a royal commission looking into the matter. 
We were told today by the Prime Minister that he obtained from the Crown Law office of this country legal advice concerning the raising of this money and the minute that went before the Executive Council. I would like to see the advice that was given to the Prime Minister on this matter. No such paper was tabled here today. We know the advice of the Treasury officials, the experts in this matter. They were strongly opposed to the Government's moves. I fail to believe that the Attorney-General's office also did not have very grave reservations. It knows that it is a breach of our Constitution to be raising money overseas other than for defence purposes or temporary purposes. No one can say that the $2,000m that was for all the purposes that were mentioned here today was for temporary purposes. It is a fabrication. It is dishonest. I hope that the Governor-General, who may or may not have been present, will in future examine closely any other proposals that come forward and will make sure that the legal advice is there for him to examine. The Ministers knew that this procedure was illegal. Nobody can tell me that 2 Q.Cs., the former Attorney-General and the Prime Minister, did not know that it was a breach of the Constitution to go forward and seek money, on a misleading minute of the Executive Council. 
Today we have heard a very emotional speech by the honourable member for Lalor when presenting his case. If he is guilty the Prime Minister and the Minister for Minerals and Energy are doubly guilty. Both these men have misled Australia by conspiring to get around the Constitution. That is the most serious breach that has occurred. The former Treasurer misled this House. That was a serious breach. Today he explained his situation. There has been no explanation why Ministers deceived the GovernorGeneral on the raising of this money. It was not for temporary purposes. The minute was to allow the Minister for Minerals and Energy to raise money overseas. A precedent was established in Australia by which people other than the Treasurer could go overseas and rake up whatever people they liked, who were involved in overseas finance, to raise money and to offer a commission of  2Vi  per cent. It was an abnormal commission in the light of the amount of money involved, even in today's circumstances. The commission on a loan overseas today in which the Treasury is involved is generally about half to one per cent. The commission on a loan of this nature should have been less than half of one per cent. Yet we are told that up to 2Vi per cent would be involved. 
One thing comes clearly out of this: Some honourable members of the Government, especially the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, tried to do the right thing previously. He defied his Prime Minister and was downgraded, but he can still hold his head high in this Parliament. I say to you  Mr Deputy Speaker  and to the Australian people that this matter cannot be shut up as the Prime Minister would like it to be shut up. It cannot be shut up until there is a full, open and independent inquiry into all the matters. The many questions that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has brought forward today will have to be answered. Until they are, the media and the whole of Australia have the right to continue to question this dishevelled, incompetent and what appears to be completely dishonest Government which is in charge of this nation and which does not deserve to remain in office any longer. 

 - Mr Speaker, I add my congratulations to the honourable member for Scullin on being elected  Chairman  of Committees and your  Deputy.  He has had a good deal of parliamentary experience, although we have not seen a great deal of his experience in this position in the House. However, we wish him well in the new position. I know that he hopes he will be in the position for some time. I have to warn him that there is nothing very permanent about positions in this Government, where ministerial changes are a regular pattern of government and where the  Speaker  and the  Chairman  of Committees seem to hold their positions for only a very short time. However, we hope that he displays a good deal of capacity either as the  Deputy Speaker  or  Chairman  of Committees in seeing that the procedures of the House are carried out quickly and succinctly and that Ministers do not use this chamber as a forum for party political purposes or for filibustering. There would be one or two exceptions. I would not mind if Ministers were to spell out the Government's policies in a few areas. I am thinking particularly of minerals and energy, an area in which we have been waiting for  Vh  years to hear a policy. It would be a pity, after such a distinguished record of national development, for us not even to know the policies and why we have no national development. I should like to say again that we are pleased with the election of the honourable member although we are disappointed that our own nominee was not elected. He is by far the most distinguished and the most experienced person in the House for this office. We know that in the fullness of time he will be back in that position. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What are the details of the $670m allocated to rural industry, to which his predecessor referred on 2 1 May 1 975. 
Will he indicate whether each amount which makes up this total is a grant or a repayable loan. 
Will the Treasurer confirm that despite the changes in the method of levying income tax, collections of income tax in the coming year will actually rise by 34 per cent although wages are calculated to rise by only 22 per cent? 
-The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  on behalf of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party, has offered to this Parliament and the Australian people an alternative to the Budget presented by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden).  The choices facing us are, on the one hand, to revitalise and strengthen our free enterprise economy after seeing it bashed and belted for the last 2Vi years or, on the other hand, to succumb to the dispiriting, deadening philosophy of socialism. This is the decision the Australian people have to make. They must decide whether they want to be encouraged to develop their own resourcefulness and rely on their own initiative or become prisoners of the socialist attitude, dependent on government. 
The massive increase in Government spending- up 100 per cent in the last  2Vi  yearshas set the nation on a course which must lead to economic disaster, high unemployment and hardship unless someone is prepared to show the will and the determination that will get the country back on the rails. The Opposition parties are determined to encourage and re-activate the private sector by redirecting more government finances back into this all important productive part of the economy. 
This Government has proved to be a dangerous spendthrift. Today Australia is facing an economic crisis of a kind which threatens to undermine our whole society. We aU know the cause of the problems- It is the mismanagement by this Government which is bent on pursuing socialist policies. The Government even admits that the main cause of our economic problemsinflation is of the Government's own making. 
On page 6 of Budget Statement No. 2 there is an admission that Australia's inflation is not imported, but home generated. It says: 
Australia has been comparatively insulated from the oil price rises and the downturn in world activity also reflected in only muted fashion the demand for Australian exports. 
The question which every Australian must ask is whether this Budget will help to solve our economic problems. I do not believe it will. In fact, I believe this Budget will only worsen the crisis which is gripping this nation. 
To have any real meaning, a Budget must reflect an honest attempt by the Government to present a detailed examination of its expenditure and receipts. Unless expenditure and revenue estimates are honest and credible, the Budget is a meaningless document. 
The Budget is not an honest document. The Government's estimates of expenditure are woefully inadequate, and the economic consequences of this understatement might well be disastrous. The Budget provides for an increase of 23 per cent in Government expenditure to produce a debt of $2,800m. But last year's Budget allowed for an increase of 30 per cent and ended up with an increase of 46 per cent, an increased expenditure of over $2,000m. How can we accept this year's estimate? Goodness knows what Medibank alone will cost. 
Last month alone the Govenment spent $700m more than it obtained in revenue- one quarter of the whole deficit in a single month. This suggests to me that we are close to a situation where the Government is losing control of its own finances. In the same way, the Budget estimates of revenue are simply not credible. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has already said that 'possibly within weeks' the Budget may have to be revised. In fact the Treasury itself, in its  Annual Review of the Economy  states: 
It would hardly be surprising if the broad picture outlined here were to prove in retrospect an inaccurate picture of 1975-76. 
That is about the strongest apology the Treasury can make for the official estimates it has presented. The revenue estimates are based on a 5 per cent growth figure. The Treasurer says that 'there are now some early signs of a recovery in the private sector- retail sales are improving and business inventories are falling '. But the Government has peddled this theme for the last 2 1/2 years. Its welfare and national development programs presented to the people in 1972 were predicted on the promise of a 6 per cent or 7 per cent growth rate. Instead we are now in a 2 per cent negative growth position. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, falling inventories do not necessarily mean sales are booming; they mean that production is falling off because of rising costs and falling profits, and that businesses are winding down or going bankrupt. The result can only be increased unemployment. The 5 per cent growth rate on which the Budget is based is poss: ible only if immediate and substantial incentives are given to the private sector. The only new assistance the Budget offers to the private sector is a  2Vi  per cent cut in company tax and an extension of the depreciation allowance. But when corporate profits are down by 50 per cent and farm incomes by 68 per cent in the last 2 years, this benefit has minimal and selective advantages. Furthermore, these paltry concessions are more than wiped out by the increases in costs to companies resulting from higher fuel costs, postal and telephone charges. 
The 2 main problems we face today are inflation and unemployment. This Budget tackles neither, and the prospect is that it will only lay the foundation for a further serious decline in the economic situation. One of the basic ways in which to tackle inflation is to increase productivity. The productive section of the economy must be brought back into full production. As long as the Government seeks to expand the unproductive public sector without at the same time increasing overall production in real terms, then the result will be inflation. 
This Budget does not diminish the size of the public sector's share of national resources. We will' not see any decrease in the rate of inflation or improvement in the economy until the size of the public sector is cut back. That means that government expenditure on goods and services must be checked. Unemployment will be brought down only by restoring the private sector. It is the private sector of the economy which provides three-quarters of the jobs in Australia. The private sector is far more important than this Government seems to recognise. The private sector is the foundation of our economic and social system. This country is built on private enterprise. It does not simply mean the big corporations; it also means the thousands of small enterprises and small businesses which alone provide over 40 per cent of the total jobs in this country. 
The Budget not only fails to help the private sector; it contains 2 potential threats to the private sector. One is that the investment funds provided to industry by the life insurance offices will be affected. There is a disincentive to take out life insurance under the new tax rebate system. This will have serious long-term consequences on the capital market which supplies the private sector. Of even greater potential for harm is the possibility of a squeeze on finance for industry because of the size of the Budget deficit. This deficit will have the effect of crowding out the private sector in the search for finance. 
One of the few bright spots in the entire economy- the coal industry- has been dealt a cruel blow by the imposition of a new levy on coal exports. This is the first tax to my knowledge ever to be placed on an export, although I must admit that the Government was considering such an imposition on beef exports 2 years ago. However, the coal industry is one of the few areas in which some real investment and expansion could take place, providing an impetus to the economy and creating new jobs. Instead, the coal levy will mean that some mines will almost certainly have to close down and plans for development in some cases will be shelved. 
We hear the wisdom of an honourable member from Tasmania. The wisest thing he could do is to get out before he is beaten. The $120m tax take per annum is equivalent to 70 per cent of the capital required for the expansion program over the next 10 years if the expanded export orders are to be filled. This is a retrograde tax and a bad principle. It is a tax on exports. It is to be levied irrespective of a mine's profitability. The differential tax, depending on the quality of coal, will produce a fiasco within the industry. Why, some of the big Queensland mines will have to pay only $2 a ton in tax whereas some of the small mines such as those down near Lithgow will be paying $6 a ton in tax. Does the Government call that equitable and fair? It cannot even make proper rules to administer its taxation system. Let it be a warning that this tax sets a precedent for taxing any export commodity which might have a price boom. It takes no account at all of the poor years that might have been suffered. Tomorrow it could he sugar or wool or tin or copper or iron ore which is affected. Look out if you find a profitable market. 
What does the man in the street get from this Budget? How does it help him to meet the inroads of inflation in managing his own weekly budget? The immediate effect of this Budget is to increase his cost of living substantially. Additional indirect taxes on beer, cigarettes, petrol and higher postal charges will all make the weekly pay packet shrink even further. Indirect taxes are the result of the Government's desperate need to finance its own extravagant spending. Every Australian, especially every working man and woman, must realise that to finance this Government's grandiose and often wasteful schemes the Government not only has to tax those with means and wealth but also has to reach down to tax the average man and woman. 
It is worth noting that under this Government that has had so much to say about cheap petrol, the price of a gallon of super grade petrol has gone up by 16c, and because of this Budget it is now going up by as much as 10c on top of that, making it approximately 25c in total. For people in country areas the rise is much more because of the abolition of the petrol price equalisation scheme. As our own oil reserves are depleted in the next 10 years and we become more dependent on imported oil, the price will skyrocket. What a great legacy for the next generation! 
What of the new taxation system? Because it is new, most people do not know what it will mean for them. Because of its novelty it also has a superficial appeal to academics and to journalists. But, make no mistake, this new taxation system is a savage attack on the Australian wage earner. Total income tax receipts are estimated by the Treasury to increase by 43 per cent when average wages are estimated to increase by 22 per cent. The Government might well boast that half a million people will not pay tax, but the rest will pay 43 per cent more tax. Of this half a million who benefit, most are students and part time workers. 
Even if wages remain at their present level, 2 groups of wage earners will be savagely hit- the single person and families where both husband and wife have jobs. For a single person on $6,000 a year, tax will increase by 26 per cent. This is another cruel blow to those who had hoped to save enough money in their early years at work. This Government has now totally destroyed any hope which young married Australians once had of owning their own home. 
Basically, the people who are likely to gain anything from this Budget are those who have no deduction for health care, education and life insurance. The former system of deductions encouraged people to care for themselves. The new system encourages them to turn to the Government to provide for their needs. The cost of Medibank represents over half the total Budget deficit, and this is only the beginning of a scheme which is uncosted and open-ended in its commitments. 
The rural industries, as was to be expected, have been dealt yet another blow by this Labor 
Government. The assistance provided in the Budget for the rural industries is down $2 10m, from $449m to $239m. This Government has shown many times that it is not interested in or does not care about the needs of people outside the great capital cities. I am especially concerned about the damaging effects of the new postal and telephonic charges on country people and country newspapers. Country newspapers are much more than a source of news for country people. They are a real part of the community. To make matters worse, we are now hearing of plans to impose much higher charges on the landlines on which country radio stations depend for their news, sporting and other programs. 
The superphosphate bounty should be restored immediately, as the Industries Assistance Commission has recommended. The IAC's recommendations for brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication also should be implemented. The embattled beef industry has been brutally and callously treated. Formerly Australia's largest industry, the beef industry is now in a state of collapse. A refusal to assist the beef producers to keep their breeding herds together must inevitably lead to shortages in the future and send up the price of beef to consumers. The export levy should be suspended immediately and beef producers and farm employees should be eligible for unemployment benefits. To force them to leave their farms and homes to gain unemployment benefits is unproductive and lacking in compassion. 
The serious depression in the farm industries is having a very great impact on country towns and cities. The economies of these towns are being undermined as the effects of the collapse of the beef industry and the difficulties of other primary industries cut into the cash flow in their business areas. Coming on top of the burdens already being borne by small business through inflation, this extra load is proving intolerable for many. This is a point which the Government seems to have overlooked completely, not only in this Budget but all the time. The policies of the Liberal and the National Country Parties do not overlook it. 
This Budget does not tackle the major problems we face. It does nothing for the private sector. It will not reduce unemployment. It will add to inflation. Yet many people seem to have been brainwashed into accepting the Budget as an example of great responsibility and restraint. I repeat what I said at the beginning: There are signs that the Government is losing control of the economic management of the country. This is a serious situation. Someone has to have the courage to call a halt to the extravagance and recklessness which the nation has seen over the last  2Vi  years. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. How long does the Prime Minister intend to have Australia stand aside while people continue to suffer and die in Timor? Is there no way in which his policy of nonalignment can be applied more in a way which will allow Australia to help the people of Timor find a solution to their problems? Does the Government feel concerned in any way that Timor might become communist controlled? 
What is the Prime Minister or his Government going to do about the breach of the indigenous crude oil policy by ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd? 
-We have listened to the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  give a very high sounding, high principled speech. Those of us who know him know that these are pious and, in many cases, hypocritical remarks. The motion before the House is really a complete sham. It is a waste of this Parliament's valuable time. The motion is designed to attack the Premier of Queensland. The Minister charges that there are reports that the Queensland Parliament might not appoint an Australian Labor Party replacement for the late  Senator Milliner.  But the Premier of Queensland has made it quite clear in public statements that  Senator Milliner  will be replaced by a new Labor Party senator. A Press statement which was put out last Thursday, 28 August, states: 
The Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  reaffirmed today that the Queensland Parliament would follow convention and appoint an Australian Labor Party man to replace the late  Senator Bertie  Milliner. 
This is an issue for the Queensland Government. It will determine the method and the procedure of replacing the late  Senator Milliner  It has made it quite clear that convention will be followed by the appointment of a person from the same political party as the late senator. There is an argument going on in Queensland over the Government's requirement that the Labor Party, in conformity with precedent established by the Labor Party on an earlier occasion, submit a panel of names from which a new senator will be chosen. I am told that on every previous occasion when any kind of vacancy has had to be Med the Labor Party in Queensland has demanded that there be a choice of names. On this occasion when a Labor Party nominee is to be appointed the Labor Party refuses to follow its own attitudes. It refuses to offer a panel of names from which the new senator can be chosen. The new senator will be a Labor Party man. That is where the Government is trying to bring forward a red herring today. There is simply no substance in this motion at all which is based on a report that the replacement might not be a Labor Party man. I suppose this is not surprising when we look at the Minister who moved the motion. 
He has been the master of furphies around this place for a long time. Because the Premier of Queensland is such a master at outwitting and outsmarting this inept and bumblefooted Government this Minister is taking an opportunity to try to strike back at the Premier of Queensland. The Labor Party has been utterly decimated by the Queensland people at recent elections. It is the Premier of Queensland, of course, who has led public opinion against this Government. The results Will be the same when we have another election. The people of Queensland know this Government for what it is. They Will see this motion for the sham it is. Let us have a look at it. The first clause asks the House to express the opinion that the choice of a replacement senator is the responsibility of the State Government or of the State Governor if the State Parliament is not sitting. What a stupid proposition to put in a motion before this House. Everyone accepts that this is the manner in which a casual vacancy is fined. Yet the Minister comes in here with this sham motion and asks the House to express an opinion on a perfectly obvious and uncontested proposition. 
Next thing we will have the Minister coming into this House wanting to move a motion that the House is of the opinion that today is Wednesday. That is just about how stupid and unnecessary this motion is. What is the next clause in the motion? It asks us to commend to the State par- liaments the practice of filling casual Senate vacancies with a person from the same political party as the senator who died or resigned. Here again I think aU of us in this House will agree with that proposition. I have said publicly time and time again that I believe this convention should be followed when a casual vacancy occurs in the normal and accepted sense of that term. That is what should happen in the present situation. The Queensland Government stated that that is what will happen. I have also said- I say it again now- that when we have a contrived, politically motivated and engineered casual vacancy occurring then it is a different ball game. Who can truthfully claim that the appointment of  Senator Murphy  to the High Court was a normal, ordinary, casual vacancy in the morally accepted sense of the word? It was not casual at all. It was a deliberately planned and executed political manoeuvre. 
Yet we have the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  whingeing and whining about the actions of the New South Wales Premier when the plotting of the Prime Minister, for his own political ends, backfired on him. I repeat that I believe that when a normal casual vacancy occurs, as with the unfortunate death of  Senator Milliner,  the normal practice should be followed. The Premier of Queensland has said that it will be followed in this case. So why is the Minister wasting the time of the Parliament with this unnecessary and stupid motion? Then we come to the third clause, which is really a ripper. It asks the House to view with concern reports- I emphasise the word 'reports '-that the long established convention may not be followed by Queensland in replacing  Senator Milliner.  Can anyone imagine anything more hypocritical, more ludicrous and more laughable than this Government talking about upholding convention? This Whitlam Government is piously talking about the need to observe convention. No government in our history has done more to destroy, to break, to smash convention, custom and tradition than the Whitlam Government has done. We all remember seeing the Prime Minister one night on television declaiming with all the artificial statesmanship he could command that when violence is done to an important convention, a well established custom, then violence is done to democracy itself. 
This is the Prime Minister who has bulldozed down and trampled on more conventions, customs and traditions than any national leader we have ever had. Let us look at the record of the Prime Minister and of his Government in following convention. Is it a breach of convention for the Prime Minister to try to stack the High Court? Of course it is. Does not our whole political system and national administration rest on the coventions and practices of federalism- the system which the Prime Minister constantly tries to break down. Is not this the Prime Minister who, despite our long adherence to the federal system, pursues the ideal of unitary government? Was it not this Prime Minister who tried to run this country for a while with a 2-man government? Is it not this Government whose Ministers appoint their sons, mates, political friends and defeated candidates to their staffs, their departments or authorities under their control? Is it not this Prime Minister who has completely destroyed the traditions of an apolitical public service by appointing his own personal aides and political advisers to very high positions in the Public Service? I refer to such persons as Spigelman, Wilenski and Menadue. Is not this the Prime Minister who in 1973 made the most shameful personal attack- both inside and outside the House- on a member of this Parliament? The tradition has been upheld by British Parliaments for 200 years that that is a grave breach of the privileges of Parliament. 
Is it not this same Prime Minister who, having made such a scurrilous attack, used the weight of numbers in the Government to prevent the matter from being referred to the Privileges Committee? Who are these people to talk about upholding convention? But that is only the start of it. Was it not a most serious and underhand breach of convention for the Prime Minister and the then Attorney-General to try to rig the numbers in the Senate to help the Labor Party? Was it not a breach of convention and an act of outright dishonesty and deception to allow a man to sit and vote in the Senate knowing that he was no longer a member of the Senate? That is the high principled and moral Government that we have whose members are espousing great words here today. This is the Government that embarks upon an electoral redistribution while the legislation covering it is under challenge in the High Court. 
This is the Government that allowed an authority- the Petroleum and Minerals Authorityto operate while it was under challenge as to its legality; a challenge that succeeded and showed that this Government was acting illegally. This is the Government that can have a Minister subjected to a vote of no confidence in the Senate and yet that Minister ignores all convention and stays in office. This is the Prime Minister, we all remember, who recommended to serving soldiers that they should refuse to obey orders- in other words, they should mutiny. This is the Prime Minister who lets his colleagues, like the present Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean),  suffer for weeks in the knowledge that the Prime Minister has his knife into him but is just delaying and the Minister knows full well that he is going to be pushed out. This is the Prime Minister who publicly rebukes departmental heads; who pours scorn on the work of members of the Industries Assistance Commission for his own political purposes; and who prejudices the outcome of inquiries such as the one we had on the Hobart Bridge disaster. 
This is the Prime Minister who destroyed the former Speaker of this House in the most violent and vicious attack on the Parliament that has ever been seen in this country or in any parliamentary democracy. This is the Government whose Ministers are prepared to poke around the back streets and alleys of the international finance world looking for money outside the normal and traditional sources of overseas fund raising. This is the Prime Minister who publicly blames the Public Service for the economic mess into which his own incompetence has brought us. This is the Government that changes the national anthem and changes the name of the Government itself without any reference to the wishes of the people or without proper regard for the Constitution. Who does the Prime Minister think he is to talk about upholding convention and custom and tradition? What is he doing in sending his Minister into the House to espouse these pious remarks today on convention when his Government has a record like that? One could go on and on if time were to permit. Yet this motion is put before us asking us to view with great concern reports that convention might not be followed in filling the Senate vacancy in 
Queensland. Those reports are not true, as I have stated. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, we will support this motion because we find nothing in it which is contrary to our views even though it is patently clear that it is a waste of time. If the Minister would like to bring in another motion asking us to express the opinion that today is Wednesday then we will support that too. Such a motion would be just as unnecessary and useless. However, I move the following amendment to the last paragraph of the motion in order to make the matter quite clear: 
That the following words be added at the end of paragraph (3): , but notes that a statement has been made by the Premier on behalf of the Queensland Government that it will recommend to the Queensland Parliament that the vacancy be filled by a member of the same political party as the late  Senator Milliner,  that is the Australian Labor Party. 
I have listened to the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  I think we can dismiss most of his speech as a lot of poppycock in which he tried to justify the pretty desperate position in which the Government finds itself in respect of these new tax measures. But there was one part of his speech which I could not dismiss lightly. That is the part where the honourable member delibera.tely misled the coal mining industry. He said that, if certain coal miners had long term contracts and they found that they were in a difficult financial position, the levy or tax would be reviewed. That is completely misleading. If it were to be done, it would be illegal and corrupt to do so. 
There is no provision in the legislation for this discretionary power to be given to the Minister for Minerals and Energy or to the Government. There is a discretionary power relating to high quality coking coal. But that is the only discretionary power that there is and it relates to whether the charge is $6 a tonne or $2 a tonne. But to talk in terms of eliminating the levy is quite wrong. This just demonstrates the desperate level which Government members have reached when they come into the national Parliament and make such statements. 
In this cognate debate I wish to concentrate on two of the 3 bills now before the House. The 2 Bills on which I wish to speak are the Excise Tariff Bill and the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Bill. The Opposition is opposed to the manner in which the oil levy is being applied. It is purely a revenue measure imposed without any consideration of the effect on oil exploration and production. The levy is also a method of obtaining more revenue for the Commonwealth at the expense of the States, and it has surprised me that the States have been so slow to react, particularly Victoria which obtains very large revenue from the production of oU. The system is that the States get somewhere between 10 per cent and  2Vi  per cent by way of royalty from the price of crude oU. In this case they will not get any increase. The whole amount Will go to the Commonwealth in the form of tax. If the price were to be increased instead of a tax being applied it would mean that the States would get more and if there were any direct profitability, which there would be in the case of Broken Hill Proprietary Company Ltd, the company would have to pay 14te per cent company tax. All told there would be something like 55 per cent of any price increase taken up in the form of royalties and taxes. 
The Commonwealth is applying this levy so that it gets the whole amount itself In effect the levy doubles the price of crude oil from $2.08 a barrel to $4.08 a barrel. It seems that the Government has moved away from the position to which the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has adhered for the past  Vh  years in relation to the pricing of oil. However, although the Government has made a move it has not moved the right way. This levy will be applied on all oil production in Australia irrespective of the size of the field or the costs of production. It will not give any incentive at all to companies to look for more oil in the knowledge that they will receive a higher price if there are any new discoveries. The Government could apply a variable levy on oil produced from new fields with the result that smaller fields would become economic and considerable encouragement would be given to explore for oil in Australia. 
The folly of the oil pricing policy of the present Government is that the development of fields with known reserves is being discouraged, not to say anything about looking for more oil. There are hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil which we know exist in small fields such as Moonie, Barrow Island and in Bass Strait but the cost of recovery is greater than the price such oil would fetch in Australia. The result is that we have to import Middle East oil at $9 a barrel which has to be paid out of our very valuable overseas exchange. That is the worst proposition we could have- to use Australia's national earnings to import oil when we have got oil in this country but it is just not profitable looking for it. If, for example, we paid $9 a barrel to Australian producers the Government would obtain revenue from the taxation of profits and the costs involved in recovering that oil would be spent in Australia. It would also provide jobs for Australians. 
There can be no more shortsighted policy than a general refusal to raise the price of the local product which we have and so prevent production and yet import oil from overseas at a much higher price. It is inevitable that the price of oil will rise to Australian consumers. We have no choice because our own reserves are limited and the only alternative is to import expensive $9 a barrel oil from overseas. The only issue involved is whether the rise begins now or occurs gradually or occurs in 5 years' time with a much greater impact. The effect which a sudden jump in oil prices would cause would lead to severe dislocation in industry and throughout the whole economy. The effect of an unrealistically low domestic price is to destroy any incentive to explore for oil in Australia. The huge costs now involved in oil exploration and new development would probably mean that there is little profitability in oil production under a price of about $6 a barrel. If a field the size of the largest fields in the Middle East were found off Australia it would still cost about $5 a barrel to land that oil on shore. 
The statistics for oil exploration tell the story of the effects of our oil pricing policy and other policies of the Government on exploration activity. In 1972 there were 80 000 miles of seismic line testing. In 1973 the figure dropped to 8500 miles. In 1974 it dropped to 7000 miles and this year there has been none at all since the last survey vessel left Australia. A similar position exists with regard to wells drilled. In 1970 there were 121 exploration wells drilled. In 1973 this fell to 69 wells and to 55 in 1974 and in the first 6 months of this year it has fallen to only 14 wells. A more disturbing aspect of this question of oil production is that we are now in a position to say that in 5 years ' time Australia will face its own oil crisis. The reason we can say this is that it takes at least 5 years to bring oil into production from the time it is discovered. If we found more oil tomorrow it would be 5 years before it came on tap but in the next 5 years Australia's oil production from existing fields will fall off dramatically. By 1980 we will be only 40 per cent self-sufficient in oil. That means that we will have to import 1.7m barrels of oil a year at a cost in present day terms of $ 1,500m. These figures assume that we can find oil tomorrow but, as I pointed out, we are not even looking for oil at the moment. 
The search for oil in Australia has come to a standstill. It would take at least 2 years to discover oil in Australia with the downturn which has occurred in oil exploration. That means that we are looking at a minimum of 7 years before we can produce more of our own oil. By 1982 Australia will by producing approximately 100 million barrels of oil a year. Measured against an estimated consumption of 300 million barrels it means that we will be only 30 per cent selfsufficient by 1982 and imports will cost over $2 ,000m in a year at the present price of oil. This is a frightening picture. This Government through its inaction and through the disastrous policies of the Minister for Minerals and Energy will leave a terrible legacy to this country. The whole national economy will be placed at risk because of the necessity to meet a huge bill for the importation of oil and we will also be placed at the mercy of other countries. 
All this has occurred because of the ideological obsession of the Minister for Minerals and Energy to gain complete control over oil production in Australia. The much vaunted Petroleum and Minerals Authority was to be the vehicle for his grand design. Unfortunately its design did not prove adequate to the Minister's ambitions. The Minister could obtain control of oil production in Australia only by forcing out those who were exploring for oil and held the most attractive leases. The withdrawal of the search subsidy, the ban on overseas investment and his insistence that there would be no change in the price of oU were all part of a campaign to denigrate further exploration. The Minister thought that he could then step in and have the whole field to himself. This grand scheme has cost Australia nearly 3 years of oU exploration activity and the chance of discovering any new major field. The oU exploration industry has been virtually forced out of Australia and I fear that it will not return until there has been a change of government in this country. 
I would also like to deal with the iniquitous coal tax. The Opposition is opposed to this levy on coal exports. We wa review it when we are returned to office. It is a retrograde, irresponsible and shortsighted measure. It has no bearing on a company's economics and the level of a company's profitability. In an effort to shore up the bulging deficit which is the result of its own extravagance and incompetence the Government is prepared to extract revenue from any source it can find irrespective of the harm which that tax has caused to the industry involved. The Australian Coal Association sent a message to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  requesting a meeting to review the coal tax levy. I am told that it has taken 10 days to receive even an acknowledgment of that message but that the Prime Minister Still refuses to see the coal exporters. The industry has requested the Government to abandon the levy or to defer this legislation pending a reference to the Industries Assistance Commission, which is presently inquiring into the taxation of the mining industry. 
This tax represents the second time in as many months that the coal industry has suffered at the hands of the present Government. In July the Minister for Minerals and Energy, by his interference in the price negotiations for Australian coal exports, made a deal with the Japanese steel mills which cost the Australian coal producers over $100m in this year alone. This tax on coal exports is a classic example of the desperate measures a government is forced to take when it finds itself caught in a deficit financing situation. This tax will cause immeasurable harm to the Australian coal industry. It will put a halt to much of the investment and to the huge expansion programs which are now being planned, in some cases almost under way. It Will prevent new jobs from being created and threaten existing jobs. It is a thoroughly irresponsible measure. 
Of aU the many harmful and shortsighted policies which this Government has pursued in the minerals and energy field, this is amongst its most damaging. This tax will fall on all coking and steaming coal exports. For prime coking coal with an ash-free carbon content of 85 per cent or more the levy will be $6. For other coals the levy Will be $2. The effect of the levy on steaming coal producers will be quite disastrous. At present Australia exports about 3 million tons of steaming coal, and as a result of this tax many exporters will be operating at a loss on existing contracts. The $2 levy takes up the entire profit margin for some of the producers, and for the rest it reduces profitability to almost nothing. 
The western coal fields centred around Lithgow will be dealt a very heavy blow by this tax. In the western coal fields, Austen and Butta, Coalex and Clutha are just entering into the export business. Some of their contract arrangements extending into the 1980s have now been placed in very serious jeopardy. Plans were under way to expand production from 2 million to 4 million tons. I know that in the Hunter Valley, which the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr 0 'Keefe)  represents, there are very ambitious plans to open up whole new coal areas, but this will all now be shelved and put aside. The situation has been so disastrously altered by the new tax that either the margin of profitability Will be very small, making expansion unattractive, or in some cases there will be a loss situation, meaning that mine operations will have to be curtailed. At a time when country towns such as Lithgow need aU the encouragement and help they can get to boost their commercial activities, one could hardly imagine a more stupid thing than imposing this tax on coal exports. 
The effect of the $6 levy on coking coal exports will also be disastrous. For the south coast producers of New South Wales it will cut profitability by half, and for the large Queensland producers the profit margin will also be affected. The most serious consequences of the tax will be on the new developments which have been planned in Queensland and in New South Wales. This House may not be aware of the tremendous potential which exists for expanding Australian coal production to meet the very favourable overseas market which will open up in the next 5 to 10 years. It has been estimated that the world steel production will increase by 45 per cent by 1985. To meet this increased production, an extra 200 million tons of coking coal will be required. The scope for expansion of coking coal production is limited. Australia is one of the few countries which will be able or should be able to meet this increased demand. But to meet this demand, a massive investment in new mines and facilities will be required. 
At present Australia produces 26 million tons of coking coal for export, of which 14 million tons comes from Queensland. To increase production by a further 20 million tons will require an investment of nearly $2,000m in the next 5 to 8 years. New South Wales producers will have to spend $140m on upgrading port facilities at Newcastle and Port Kembla and in building a new port at Botany Bay. In Queensland plans are at an advanced stage for the development of new mines at Nebo, Norwich Park and Hail Creek. In addition to the huge cost involved in opening up a mine, building towns and providing water facilities the coal producers must also construct new railways and port faculties. It is estimated that the cost of constructing a new railway at Goonyella and of installing additional port facilities at Hay Point in Queensland will cost in the order of $ 1,200m. Although the investment required to bring new mines into production is massive, the benefit to Australia is equally large. 
An extra 20 million tons of coking coal exported will earn $ 1,000m a year in export revenue. It will provide the State governments with tens of millions of dollars in royalties and in additional freight rates, and will provide the Commonwealth Government with hundreds of millions in company tax and income tax. Yet much of this new development will be brought to a halt by the imposition of the $6 a tonne levy on coking coal exports. The profit to the companies after paying the tax will not be sufficient to enable them to fund the development of these huge new projects. In order to be able to undertake such massive financial commitments, companies must be assured that they will be able to fund their loans out of their cash flow in the early years of the project.  (Extension of time granted).  I thank the Minister for Minerals and Energy and I thank the House for its indulgence. To do this they will require a very high level of earnings. At present they receive virtually no financial incentive from the Government to make these investments. Depreciation on the infrastructure is over a 20-year period. There is no investment allowance which will enable a large proportion of the investment to be written off in the early years of the life of the project. Therefore companies must look to their own earnings to finance development. 
By imposing this tax, a short-sighted and incompetent Government has effectively brought to a halt plans for development which could bring in an extra $ 1,000m a year in export revenue in 5 years time. It is all the more surprising, because you could hardly imagine the Treasury advising the Government to do this when it has the potential for gaining so much more revenue from increased tax. However it seems that once a government falls into the grip of deficit financing and inflation it begins to lose control of its own ability to plan and to have competent national policies. In the mad scramble to hold its own finances together the Government is caught in a deficit finance situation and must grab anything it can from whatever source it can irrespective of the consequences. 
This type of export tax will kill investment and gradually destroy this great productive industry. These are the implications of this tax, which the Opposition believes is a retrograde measure. It will destroy any chance of investment in one of the few sectors of the economy where there was real scope for expansion and encouragement for investment. The tax is contrary to the Government's own stated policy in the Budget of assisting the private sector. This retrograde tax only demonstrates how little the Government is interested in the private sector. The tax destroys the possibility of thousands of new jobs being created in electorates which are at present represented by 3 Ministers of the Government and by three more Labor Party members. Employment opportunities in Mackay and district will be affected, as they will be affected in New.castle and Wollongong. In addition, the electorates of Hunter, Macquarie and Macarthur will be severely affected. 
It is also a bad principle to tax exports. This is one of the most disturbing features of this tax. We all know that this Government does not give any thought at all to the vital role our exports play in this nation's economic welfare. Eighteen months ago 'exports' was a dirty word with this Government. Earnings from exports represent really the only true source of national growth and national improvement. Without the income which is derived from exports we cannot purchase anything abroad. Australia would be a backward, second rate nation today if it were not for the capacity to purchase a wide range of goods, services and technology from overseas. Australia is one of the largest exporting nations in the world. Our exports are the sheet anchor of our economy and the corner stone of our economic development. The previous government regarded one of its highest priorities as ensuring that every assistance and incentive was given to Australian exporters. We encourage primary producers to be more productive and to obtain markets overseas for their products. 
We were so successful in promoting Australia's exports and building up a sound and broadly based economy that this Government has now taken for granted aU the good work that was done previously. Now it seems that the Government is setting about destroying those benefits by adopting policies which will oppress export industries and which will lead to a falling off in Australia's export earnings. Primary producers are being forced into bankruptcy by rising costs and falling income. AU of our export industries are finding their profitability eroded by rising costs. In the coal industry wages rose 50 per cent last year. Total costs for an underground operator rose by a staggering figure of 70 per cent, while incomes, after all duties and taxes, rose by only 40 per cent. 
Let it be a warning that this tax sets a precedent for taxing any export commodity which might experience a boom price. It takes no account of the poor years which an industry must go through and surely the Minister for Minerals and Energy must know of the difficulties that the coal mining industry has been through for so many years. Tomorrow it could be the sugar, wool, copper or iron ore industry which is affected by such a policy. Another aspect of this tax which disturbs me is its effect on our main trading partner, Japan. At present Australia exports 60 per cent of its coal production and over 80 per cent of these exports go to Japan. Japan imports a total of 60 million tons of coking coal a year, and it is estimated that by 1985 this requirement Will rise to 100 million tons. The Japanese are desperate to obtain assured supplies of coking coal for their future expanding production. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy promised the Japanese an extra 20 million tons of coal by 1980. This tax will now make that almost impossible to achieve. The Japanese, I am informed, feel they have been betrayed by the 
Government. The steel mills agreed to a substantial price increase for Australian coal exports in the belief that the higher price would enable new developments and expanded production to occur. They never considered that half the increase that they offered would go straight back into the coffers of this Government. What of the escalation clause which was in the coal contracts and which everybody accepted as being a very important provision of those contracts? The Minister for Minerals and Energy has stopped the companies from passing this tax on to their customers, as they were entitled to do under the contracts. 
The Minister has deceived the Japanese and placed in jeopardy Japan's future plans for her steel industry. This must now accelerate Japan's desire to try to find other sources of coal around the world. As is common knowledge 3 groups from Japan have tried to find other sources of coal. One group went to South Africa, one to India and one to North America. Certainly the Japanese Will be encouraged to look even more seriously at these areas. This also harms our iron ore exports, which will be seriously affected if the expansion of Japanese steel production is to be curtailed. This tax is only another indication to the Japanese that they cannot rely on Australia as a secure and trustworthy trading partner. The Japanese already have had their confidence shaken and jolted by the interference of the Minister in price negotiations. When I visited Japan in June I found great concern being expressed by some leading Japanese businessmen and by Government officials. There was criticism of the trading relationship  between Australia and Japan. If there is one lesson which the Japanese have learned from their experience after the Arab oU price rise it is that they must seek alternative and more reliable sources for the supply of vital raw materials. 
The action of the Australian Government in imposing this tax on coal exports is precisely the same as the action of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries in gaining more revenue from oU by raising the price of oil exports. The Japanese steel mills regard the action of the Australian Government as being in the same category as the action taken by the Arab countries in December 1973. This Government is fast destroying the goodwill which remains between Australian and Japan. It must be most disturbing, and certainly was during my visit to Japan, to find that the Japanese Atomic Energy Commission is undertaking an intensive program of research into steel making by nuclear methods. This project has been given the highest priority. Once the Japanese achieve a break through which can be applied commercially the Australian coking coal industry Will have no market worth speaking of. Our present known reserves of coal in Australia will last 600 years. It is probable that in 20 years' time alternative technologies - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Opposition is opposed to the establishment of the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation. We will oppose the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation Bill in this House and in the Senate. We believe that the Corporation is unnecessary and would prove positively harmful to Australian trade. The only reason for the Government pursuing this measure is the ideological bent of the former Minister for Overseas Trade and former  Deputy  Prime Minister, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  Nearly every exporting group in this country is opposed to the Bill. I am told that the Department of Trade is lukewarm in its attitude to the Bill. We all know that this Government does not give any thought at all to the vital role which exports play in the nation's economic welfare. If it did, surely it must have a greater understanding of and sympathy for many of the problems which exporting industries are experiencing at the moment. 
This Bill is an attempt to nationalise indirectly some of Australia's export industries. It is no surprise that a socialist government should attempt to gain control of Australia's exports which represent the greatest source of wealth to this nation. Under this Bill the Overseas Trading Corporation is given complete power to trade in all goods produced in Australia. The Commonwealth Government possesses absolute power, through its control over exports, to prevent any Australian producer from selling his goods abroad. This power could be used to force Australian exporters to trade through the Overseas Trading Corporation by making export approval conditional on using the Corporation. By refusing to grant export licences the Government could use its power over export controls to force Australian exporters to sell their products to the Corporation.This may be an extreme point of view; but do we believe that this Government can be trusted with the means to carry such sweeping powers into effect? Already the Government has reduced the economy of this country to a shambles by its irresponsibility and incompetence. Australia is now in the grip of rampant inflation and record unemployment. Giving the Government the potential authority of total control over all exports would reduce the Australian economy to complete chaos. 
I shall outline the Opposition's objections to some of the specific provisions contained in the Bill. The definition of 'overseas trade' as contained in clause 3 means, in addition to trade between Australia and another country or Territory, trade that is incidendal to trade between Australia and another country or Territory. This definition provides a very wide interpretation of the meaning of 'overseas trade'. It would include all the recovery, manufacturing, processing, packaging and marketing activities which are carried out preliminary to overseas trade. Such a definition, despite qualifications contained in the last paragraph, would allow the Corporation to reach back into domestic activities and, if necessary, to take control of them. The functions and powers of the Corporation contained in clauses 7 and 8 of the Bill are extremely wide. I draw particular attention to clause 8 (1) (b) which gives the Corporation power to buy or sell goods including goods exported or imported by it. 
Clause 45 ( 1 ) states that the Corporation shall not, without the Minister's approval, enter into a contract with exceeds $500,000 in value. However, clause 45 (2) states that approval relating to contracts not exceeding $500,000 does not apply to contracts relating to goods entered into in the course of trade. In other words, there is no limit on the Corporation's power to buy and sell and trade in goods on its own account. I think it would be wrong for this Parliament to create a corporation with unlimited powers to deal in goods within Australia. In the hands of a government which wished to do so, such a corporation could easily become an instrument by which any trade and any industry in Australia could be taken over by a socialist government. 
Another provision which is relevant to this is the power contained in clause 40 ( 1 ) (a) for the Corporation to borrow moneys from an approved bank. The definition of an approved bank in clause 3 includes an overseas bank. When one recalls the activities of certain Ministers in relation to overseas borrowings one suspects whether this Corporation, as it was originally proposed, was to be set up as a means of allowing Ministers with access to overseas loan money to assume control of large sections of 
Australian industries by gaining control of their products. 
To return to the powers of the Corporation, the Opposition objects strongly to the provisions contained in clause 12 (2). I believe the Government proposes to delete clause 12 (2) (c) which permits the Corporation to engage in the production of the manufacture of goods. However, clause 12 (2) (b) still permits the Corporation to engage in the processing and the packaging of goods. I believe that the term 'processing' is wide enough to permit the Corporation to undertake any form of preliminary or secondary processing -even manufacturing. This is completely unacceptable to the Opposition. I see no reason for the Corporation engaging in processing or packaging in order to carry out the functions outlined in clauses 7 and 8. Clause 10(1) is also to be amended by the Government in an attempt to remove the blatant provision that would have allowed the Corporation to displace any existing exporter in a foreign market if another importer in that market could be found. 
Although the proposed amendment will remove the most blatant example of the Corporation's power to displace existing Australian exporters from the market they have built up, the qualifications still contained in clause 10(1), paragraphs (a) to (d), represent a grave threat to many Australian exporters. Clause 10 ( 1) (b) provides that the Corporation may take over the market of an Australian exporter if the importer prefers to deal with the Corporation. By this means the Government could, in effect, force an exporter out of his market in many countries. I could well imagine that being the case with many of the centrally planned socialist economies. If the Government chooses to use its diplomatic influence in many foreign countries, especially countries whose governments play a large role in their economies, it could easily persuade a foreign importer to deal with the Corporation. 
Two other provisions in the Bill disturb me. Clause 1 1 permits the Corporation to engage in wholesale trade in Australia. This clause is potentially ruinous to many Australian wholesalers. The real implications of its width are contained in clause 11, sub-section (2), paragraph (a), which states that the Corporation may engage in retail trade in Australia by buying goods from 'outside, or importing goods into, Australia, as the agent of a person in Australia for use or consumption by that person'. A person in Australia may include the Commonwealth Government or Commonwealth statutory corporations. This means the Commonwealth could by-pass existing retail outlets and obtain goods for its own use direct from overseas. Again the theoretical approach of a socialist government is seen where it believes it can import more efficiently than private enterprise. We are yet to see this efficiency demonstrated in any commercial activity. 
Clause 13 relates to transactions which are said to be in the national interest- that is, transactions which are in accordance with sound commercial principles, under which the Corporation is directed to operate. The provision in clause 13 makes commercial accountability of the Corporation quite meaningless. The clause is wide enough to permit the Corporation, at the Minister's direction, to engage in any transaction. This clause makes a mockery of all the other provisions of the Bill which purport to impose qualifications or restrictions on the powers of the Corporation. In effect, it permits the Corporation to import into Australia goods which are already manufactured in Australia. 
Apart from these specific objections to the Bill as it presently stands, the Opposition is opposed to the Bill on other grounds. We do not see any justification for the establishment of an overseas trading corporation. The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  relied on 2 main arguments in his second reading speech. The first was that the Corporation would assist our trade with centrally planned economies and with Middle East countries. At present Australia 's trade with these nations is quite small. Over the past 15 years our trade with centrally planned economies has been in the order of 6 per cent of our exports. This figure has varied from as little as 3.5 per cent in 1971-72 to 1 1.5 per cent in 1963-64. The reason for this great variation is that the great bulk of our trade with the centrally planned economies comprises primary products and raw materials. For instance, in 1973-74 over 85 per cent of our trade with China was in grain, wool, iron and steel. Similarly, in Czechoslovakia, Poland and Russia wool comprised by far the largest single item in our exports to these countries. 
The fact is that a comprehensive range of marketing organisations already exist in the area of primary products. The Australian Wheat Board handles all the sales of wheat. The Australian Meat Board oversees all meat exports. A similar situation exists with most other primary products. In the case of wool, the Australian Wool Corporation makes significant sales to overseas buyers. Therefore, the volume and the value of Australia's trade in primary products with centrally planned economies would not be affected at all by the setting up of an overseas trading corporation. Similarly, our trade with Middle East countries would not be affected. The Wheat Board has been very successful in making sales in this area. It must be remembered also that the marketing of Australia's primary products is undertaken by statutory marketing boards which are controlled largely by producer representatives and grower organisations. Australia's primary producers have no wish to see the control that they exercise over the marketing of their own products taken over by a Government corporation which is not responsible to the grower or to the producer. Government control makes markets vulnerable to political compromise. With minerals which comprise 25 per cent of our total exports there is less demand from the centrally planned economies. 
The small markets which do not exist are adequately catered for by a number of trading houses and agents. I heard the Minister for Overseas Trade, who is at the table, say that this is 1 975. 1 guess it is the year of the socialist as far as he is concerned. Instead of having marketing organisations he would rather the Government took over controls so that he could do deals with his commie countries in selling the primary products of Australian farmers. 
In one instance, as far as trading in mineral products is concerned, an office has been opened in Moscow by an Australian trading house and this organisation does extensive business in the eastern European countries. The fact is that apart from primary products and raw materials the only other requirement of centrally planned economies is technology. Australia does not possess very much technology which these countries are seeking. As far as our exports of primary products and raw materials go the proposed Corporation would make little or no difference except that it would impose further burdens on the taxpayers of this country having to bolster up yet another bureaucracy. 
The second aim of the Corporation would be at assist small Australian manufacturers and processors to enter into overseas markets. The Opposition cannot see how the proposed Corporation would assist that aim. We believe that if the Government wants to help small manufacturers enter the export trade it should restore the export incentive scheme which was introduced by the previous Government. It is incentives which small firms want to enable them to become exporters. The Government has instead held out to them the prospect of this Corporation which could solve all their problems. 
There seems to be some confusion as to the role of the Corporation in assisting small exporters of manufactured goods. On the one hand there is the belief that the Corporation could act as a manager or co-ordinator in enabling many small Australian groups to participate in turnkey overseas operations. This is a misconception of the role of the Corporation. It will be too small to operate on the scale required for such undertakings. I am sure that it would be many years before it possesses, within that organisation, the expertise and knowledge required to carry out such functions. Instead the Corporation would have to get private consultants to do the work for it. This function could quite easily be undertaken now by the Department of Overseas Trade without setting up a special bureaucracy in an independent corporation. 
Some manufacturers, especially those in the heavy engineering field, see this Corporation as performing a similar role to the Ex-Im Bank in America and the Japanese Export-Import Bank. Nothing could be further from the truth. This Corporation will engage in trading activities whereas those other organisations co-ordinate projects and marshal funds. On the other hand, some believe that the Corporation could open up vast new markets for their products in the Middle East countries. Again this is a misconception. Apart from large projects and large contracts for the supply of food and raw materials which are undertaken at an official level in most Middle East countries, this area of the world generally speaking is the home of the small trader. It is to these individuals that Australian exporters and manufacturers must go. Businessmen from other countries have demonstrated how it is possible to obtain large contracts from individual Middle East merchants and importers. Doing business in that area of the world requires special skills. It will take more than the establishment of an overseas trading corporation for Australian companies to acquire those skills. 
It is unrealistic for small firms to rely on a government trading corporation to write their contracts for them. It is equally naive for a government to imagine that it can create a corporation which fulfils that function. In fact this Government has demonstrated that it is not really interested in overseas trading. Eighteen months ago this Government treated exports as a dirty word. It is a joke for this Government to claim that it is trying to promote Australian exports. It is difficult to imagine what action it could have adopted which would have done more damage to our export trade than it has already done. There were successive revaluations of the Australian dollar which appreciated our currency by almost 25 per cent against our competitors and forced many Australian exporters out of business. 
One example of this is the export of Australian cars. This trade has fallen from 66 000 vehicles in 1,973 to just 15 000 in the last year, and the figure is still going down. The Government is supposed to represent manufacturing industry and the vehicle workers unions of Australia. Let it produce the figures for the export of motor cars. This Government then cut tariffs by 25 per cent across the board, with the result that many Australian firms have gone out of business completely. The country was swamped with cheap imports in 1974 to the detriment of many Aus.tralian manufacturers. Now we see the Government in its desperation turning to the profitable export industries as a source of extra revenue to enable the bulging deficit to be shored up. 
The iniquitous tax on coal exports must rank as one of the most retrograde and destructive measures which this Government has implemented. When speaking yesterday on the Bill to impose a tax on coal exports I pointed out the dangerous situation into which this Government has allowed itself to fall as a result of its deficit financing. I pointed out how deficit financing leads to the perversion of Government policies and in the end undermines all productive industry within the nation because of the desperate need to extract revenue from every profitable enterprise. This Government is now getting itself into a position in which it is turning to export industries in a desperate attempt to find extra revenue. To any export industry that gets into a profitable situation I say: 'Watch out'. Yet the Government talks about bringing in a new corporation to try to bolster up the export industries. This is surely a POliCY which must lead to disaster if we do not look after our export industries. 
Australia is one of the world's great trading nations and we rely on our income from trading as our main source of wealth. It is the earnings from overseas trade on which this nation has been built. The previous Government realised the vital importance of overseas trade to Australia 's economic development and it was one of our highest priorities to foster that trade. We introduced a whole range of incentives to encourage productivity and to give incentives to export. The benefits of nearly 20 years of work have almost been dissipated in 3 short years of mismanagement and extravagant and incompetent government. Now we even see the Government turning on the export section in a vain attempt to extract some revenue from some still profitable industries. This is the policy of a desperate and dangerous government. It is a policy which will destroy our export industries by bringing this country to its ruin. Apart from taxing exporters who are lucky enough to be successful the Government is undermining their capacity even to produce. 
Inflation, which has been brought about through economic mismanagement and the pursuit of socialist policies, is fast destroying the ability of many manufacturers and producers to remain in business. Inflation is undermining Australia's competitiveness in the international markets. As wages and costs within Australia increase at a rapid pace far beyond any inflation in the countries with which we trade, Australian goods are losing ground to goods from other countries. The exporter cannot pass on his increased wages and costs. Beyond our shores there lies a market in which the buyer has a choice of products and prices. Unless inflation within Australia is brought under control all our export industries Will be forced out of their markets. 
The establishment of an Overseas Trading Corporation, with its large and costly bureaucracy involving even greater spending of public funds, can only contribute further to inflation. Instead of interfering with exporters who want to get on with their job and instead of embarking on expensive new schemes that Will further worsen the inflation that is destroying our capacity to compete on overseas markets, the Government would be far better occupied in concentrating its efforts on bringing inflation under control. 
I would like to refer briefly to some Liberal and National Country Party policies to promote Australian exports. We would restore incentives to exporters to enable them to enter the export trade. We would restructure the existing marketing assistance section in the Trade Promotion Division of the Department of Overseas Trade so that it would become an 'action group' employed to promote and co-ordinate deals with the centrally planned and lesser developed countries. This group would possess the flexibility and resources to be able to assess projects, enter into the early stages of planning and bring together interested Australian parties for tendering. This could all be done within the Department rather than by setting up an independent bureaucracy. 
A Liberal-National Country Party Government would strengthen the banking facilities available to Australian exporters. There is a real need for existing bankers or for a new organisation to marshal funds for the purpose of promoting and co-ordinating large overseas sales of Australian manufactured products. The most important step which a Liberal-National Country Party Government would take to assist exporters, however, would be to bring inflation under control and to restore a healthy, competitive economic climate in Australia. For those reasons, but primarily because it would add to our present financial problems in Australia and would deter the incentive and the encouragement that many private exporters have to get on with the job and to do it as efficiently as possible, we cannot support the proposal to set up yet another bureaucratic organisation as a burden on the taxpayers of Australia. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, and it is a supplementary question to that just asked by the honourable member for Melbourne. The Minister will be aware that in some country areas the ratio of people unemployed is twice that of the national average, in some cases exceeding 10 per cent. With the phasing out now of the Regional Employment Development scheme, is any action being taken or are any plans being undertaken by the Government to ensure that there will be some continuing job opportunities for people in these country areas? 
-Has the Minister for the Media seen today's report confirming that the Department of the Media is being used as a  Dr Goebbels  style propaganda machine? Can the Minister give an assurance that the integrity and the independence of the Australian Information Service will not be interfered with in this way? 
In speaking to the Treasury estimates I should like to deal with one special aspect, that is, the Government's new rebate scheme for income tax. This scheme is being presented as a revised form of taxation which will give added benefit to the taxpayers as well as simplifying the system of tax collection. However, I cannot accept that it is an advantage universally across the board to taxpayers. In fact, there are a lot of sleepers in this new form of tax rebate that need to be examined much more closely by the taxpayers before they get too jubilant. There are areas such as the marginal rate of tax. For certain sections of the community the marginal rate will go up quite substantially. There is the case of the single person. His level of taxation will increase enormously. The taxation levels for the married couple who are both working will go up tremendously. Of course, the aged persons will lose the rebate provision that existed before and they will find that their levels of taxation are much higher. But it is not those areas that I want to mention today. I want to talk about the income tax averaging. 
The new income tax scales contained in the Budget radically alter the existing provisions relating to the averaging of incomes by primary producers. This point does not seem to have been brought out yet. I must say that for the layman, the man on the street, it will be very difficult to understand just how he will be disadvantaged by this new rebate system on the averaging provisions that are made permissible for him up to an income of $16,000. Briefly, the effect of the new system of rebates in place of the concessional deductions on the primary producers will be to change completely the income base on which taxation is calculated for the purpose of averaging. Under the previous system taxable income for averaging purposes consisted of gross income less expenses, less concessional deductions. These were the deductions for education, health and insurance. 
Many primary producers hold large insurance policies in order to cover probate on their properties. I must say that these new taxes will hit the insurance companies and the incentive for people to take out more insurance. But certainly the primary producer felt compelled to protect his family by taking out substantial life insurance policies for probate purposes. There was some incentive for him to do it up to the maximum of the $1,200 a year concessional allowance. Under the new scheme taxable income for averaging purposes consists only of gross income less expenses. After the average tax is calculated for income over the 5 previous years and applied to the income of the present year a $540 rebate is then allowed. However, the result is that the tax that will be paid is more than would have been paid under the previous system. For example, for a farmer with a taxable income of $4,000, on which he now pays $420 tax, the new taxable income, assuming concessional expenditures amount to 10 per cent of the net income, is $4,400 and the tax under the new scheme will be $497. This represents an increase of 1 8 per cent. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which shows figures for higher incomes. 

<graphic href="096131197509104_34_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197509104_35_2.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the Committee. These higher rates of tax represent only the increase for the next year, but income for the purposes of averaging is the average taxable income over the previous 5-year period. For each year that the new scheme operates the income for the previous years will include a year with a higher taxable income until after 5 years the whole of the taxable income for the averaging period will have been raised to a higher level. The effect will be that in 1979-80 the primary producer with an average income of $4,000 will pay $508 tax, an increase of 21 per cent on his present tax. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which shows the corresponding figures for higher income. 

<graphic href="096131197509104_35_3.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the Committee. Of course with this higher level of taxation the primary producer's provisional tax impost is also lifted. So primary producers will now be discriminated against as a special group in having to pay still higher taxes than the ordinary taxpayer would have to pay. He also has the trouble of paying provisional tax on top of the other increase. The reason for this huge increase in tax for primary producers operating under the averaging scheme is that the considerations governing the new tax system simply do not apply to the averaging scheme. The new taxation scheme was designed for people on fixed incomes who pay tax under the pay-as-you-earn scheme. The $540 rebate was adopted because it was intended that the average taxpayer should be no worse off than under the previous concessional deductions scheme. However, the primary producer is not an average taxpayer. His incomes fluctuate, sometimes violently, and the averaging system with the concessional deductions was designed to allow him to even out his income and tax over a period. 
The new system of rebate is totally irrelevant to the situation which averaging attempts to remedy. It ignores the fundamental distinction between those on regular and on fixed incomes and those on fluctuating incomes. Income averaging is basic to farm management in Australia and has played a vital role in helping to give certain income stablility and enabling farmers to meet their taxation commitments. By radically altering this essential feature of the economics of a rural enterprise the Government has again demonstrated its failure to understand the different needs of people in rural areas and I believe it adds still further to the financial disabilities that people in rural industries have had to suffer under the existing Government. 
-The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  did us a great service in raising the issue of the somewhat irregular sales that have been made by IOC Australia Pty Ltd and Allied Petrochemicals Pty Ltd to the ACTU-Solo group. This does become a very questionable issue when we see ACTU-Solo being put in rather a preferred position against a company such as the Australian Gas Light Co. which is really a service company with consumers in the Sydney area. The interesting thing about this whole question is that AGL last year made an application to buy at a relatively cheap price the quota that was provided to APC-IOC of 650 000 barrels of oil. This company was prepared to pay above the agreed price of $2.09 a barrel; it was prepared to pay $1.50 above that price. The company made an application to the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  to see whether this would be approved. The Minister wrote back and said that it would not be approved until further notice was given. All this was revealed today in the Press by the General Manager of this very great and distinguished company, the Australian Gas Light Co. which did not get a reply or any notification whatsoever. We find that this quantity of oil was sold very strangely to the ACTU and Solo and involved a cool profit of a couple of million dollars. As a result AGL had to buy oil at the world price. It had to pay approximately $9 a barrel which cost it an extra $6m above the price which it wanted to pay in the first place. As a result this loaded an extra cost on to the consumers in the Sydney area. Who do honourable members think got the advantage of this deal? The ACTU and Solo. Of course the Minister said he knew nothing about this deal. Maybe he did not but there is a good reason for explanation to this Par.liament and to the Australian people why AGL was not told the facts and why ACTU-Solo should have been given this privilege.  (Honourable members interjecting.) 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  I ask honourable members on the left to please maintain some decorum in this House. The uproar on the Opposition side is too outstanding altogether. 
It is no use the Minister sheltering behind personal abuse of the Leader of the Opposition for bringing this question forward. There is need for explanation and it is no use sitting back hoping that the royal commission will find the answers for him. The Aus.tralian people demand to know now why this agreement took place and why such a privilege was conferred on one group as against another group, with the consumers having to pay more as a result. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. In the light of the report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum will ACTUSolo Enterprises Pty Ltd continue to get allocations of Australian crude oil? 
I direct my question to the Minister acting on behalf of the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Can the Minister explain why the Minister for Minerals and Energy gave tacit approval to a contract between the Australian Gas Light Company and Allied Petrochemicals Ltd for the purchase of Australian crude oil at approximately $3 above the official price? As this agreement was similar to that between ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd and Allied Petro-chemicals Ltd, is it not extraordinary that the Minister for Minerals and Energy knew about one contract but not about the other? Is it not extraordinary also that the contract approved by the Minister between ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd and Allied Petro-chemicals 
Ltd involved the same oil as that which the Australian Gas Light Company was seeking to obtain? Is he aware that the commercial - 
It was interesting to listen to the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick).  He is the one member of this House who should recognise the disabilities of having a large electorate. But of course we know that he is really only concerned with the 2 industrial mining cities of Broken Hill and Cobar and that the rest of the State does not matter. He is quite happy to go along with Australian Labor Party policies here. In fact he is very frightened to buck them. He is a captive of the organisation. Country people really do not matter as long as he can look after the bulk votes in Broken Hill and Cobar. At least he tries to do that, although I think that even out there the people are becoming pretty discontented with his Party. I am not making reflections on the honourable member. My remarks are directed at the Australian Labor Party which is losing ground rapidly. The Australian Labor Party group was completely trounced at the last local government election, and the same thing will happen next time there is a federal election. 
One would have thought that the honourable member would have got the message now that country people are upset. One of the things about which they are really upset is this redistribution which attempts to take away some of their rights. If the Government was as determined and purposeful in pursuing the solutions to the nation's economic problems as it is in trying to manipulate the electoral laws of this country, Australia would have a bit more hope for the future. Previous Australian Labor Party governments- I know that there have not been many since Federation- have all accepted the previous criteria of the electoral laws. In fact they have not been changed basically since that time. At the time of Federation the 20 per cent tolerance was written into the law and has been accepted by all governments until the Whitlam Government came forward with a Minister who is absolutely obsessed with the electoral laws and the electoral system and who has tried to change them and manipulate them for his own party political advantage. 
In the  2Vi  years since the Labor Party has been in office we have seen a multitude of legislation and referendums on these matters. The Government will not take the advice of the Australian people who have rejected referendums seeking to interfere with the electoral laws. The people do not trust the Labor Party in electoral matters. But the Government continues to push ahead with these electoral laws. The reintroduction of these proposals underlines the Government's complete commitment to doing everything it can to hurt country people. These proposals are designed to reduce the opportunity of country people to enjoy at least some kind of equality of political representation with city people. The Government flies in the face of principles which are accepted in virtually every democratic country. Every democratic country of which I know makes allowances for the special difficulties of providing adequate representation in large, remote, sparsely settled electorates because they know that it is the fair, just and democratic thing to do. But this Government and the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  are not in the least bit concerned about or interested in fairness, justice or real equality of representation. All they are interested in is a system that will disadvantage country Australians and help the Labor Party no matter what violence is done to the real political rights of the people who live outside the capital cities. What the Labor Party does not understand is that Australia is more than Sydney and Melbourne. 
This Government claims to have a high regard for convention, yet I wonder how many people in this House and outside it are aware of the fact that the legislation on which these proposals are based is at the moment under challenge in the High Court of Australia. In May this year, the day before the Minister first introduced these proposals, the High Court began hearing challenges to the Commonwealth Electoral Act (No. 2) by 3 State governments. I understand that the court has completed hearing the challenge but has yet to bring down a decision. I suggest that it is a matter of the gravest impropriety for this Government to go ahead with its electoral plans while the legality of the law on which they are based is being considered by the High Court. This Government, which claims to observe convention and proper practice, is thumbing its nose at the High Court of Australia just as it has thumbed its nose and trampled under foot so many other institutions, traditions, customs and conventions. It tried to do the same thing with the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. Thank goodness the High Court was there to give a judgment. The Government tried to bluster its way through in that respect only to be reprimanded and pulled into gear by the High Court. The same may happen in respect of the electoral laws which are now being challenged. If the High Court makes a fair decision, it will probably reject those laws. But that is a matter for the High Court to determine. 
The Whitlam Government has no more respect for the High Court than it has for any of the other basic institutions in our society; otherwise it would not have treated the High Court with such contempt by bringing this legislation back a second time. It certainly has no real respect for the democratic rights of the Australian people, especially those who live outside the great cities. 
We oppose these proposals once again because they are unfair, unjust and discriminatory. They are proposals based on unfair and unjust legislation. They are proposals which the Minister for Services and Property brings into this House, with a mask of democracy, to hide their real face- the face of injustice. No amount of plausible, high sounding argument about the right to equality of votes can hide the fact that the Minister is determined, if he can, to destroy the real right which every elector should enjoy, that is, equality of representation. The Minister will never convince me or any other fair minded Australian that it is possible to achieve equality of representation by having almost the same number of voters in an electorate of less than 4 square miles like his and an electorate like Gwydir, which is of 32 000 square miles, or an electorate such as Kennedy which is of over 280 000 square miles. 
-Kalgoorlie is even bigger. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard),  if he had any capacity or gumption, ought to get up and fight too. In that way he would not be a lackey of the organisation as he is as the honourable member for Darling is. It is not just the area that is significant; it is the difficulty of providing proper and adequate representation which such large areas present. That is important. There is no point in my going through all these matters again. They have been debated in this House many times. The Minister knows all about them as well as I do. Yet he is prepared to close his eyes to the unfairness and the injustice of these proposals in his determination to do everything that he can- and he has boasted about this often enough- to disadvantage and to hurt country people and to trample on their rights in the desperate effort and, I must admit, need to try to bolster the position of the Labor Government at the moment. 
-Certainly it is running scared, and it has good reason to. That reason is the inept way in which Labor has governed this country in the last 2 years and the way in which its whole reputation has been completely and utterly discredited. 
The Minister for Services and Property has said in this House that there can be no doubt whatever that a man is entitled to equal representation whether he lives in the city or in the country. We accept that view, but we deplore the fact that the Minister says one thing and does another. We condemn him for saying one thing and then turning around and doing something that will make that unexceptionable objective utterly impossible to achieve. The Minister is no more interested in achieving equality of representation than he is in maintaining a fair and democratic voting system. When the Minister first brought this matter before the Parliament, he claimed that the Government had a mandate for it. 
-We hear very little these days about the Government's mandate. The elections in Queensland and South Australia, the election in the Northern Territory, the Bass byelection and even local government elections have each resulted in support for the Labor Party being further eroded and depleted, each showing the Government's mandate becoming more and more fragile to the point where now it is being withdrawn. The Government certainly does not announce this fact in the House because it recognises that that mandate is being withdrawn too. The public opinion polls show that support for the Labor Party is down to 34 per cent. The Prime Minister is approved by only 32 per cent of the people. The simple fact is that the people no longer support or trust this Government. The Government certainly has no mandate to push ahead with this piece of legislation. That is why we no longer hear the claim that the Government has a mandate for the legislation, and rightly so. 
We have been through this argument time and time again because of the Minister's stubborn attachment to his objective of damaging to the maximum extent possible the rights and opportunities of country people. There is no point in continuing to go through the argument again. We know how the Minister feels. We know that he has almost an obsession about this aspect. I have pointed out before the reasons why a redistribution is not required at present to correct inequalities between the States; these inequalities simply do not exist. There is no justification for this abnormal redistribution which the Government is trying to bring forward. The results of a further redistribution now will need to be undone by another redistribution following the census which is due fairly soon- in fact, next year. We oppose these proposals because they are unfair and unjust and have no place in a country which claims to have any real interest in the rights of all of its citizens, including the nonmetropolitan citizens. 
We believe that every Australian should have the greatest possible degree of equality of political representation, no matter where he or she lives. That equality cannot be achieved in a country such as Australia unless some account is taken of the very significant and undeniable differences which exist among our electorates, some of them tiny, and others enormous. The objective of the Labor Party is quite clear. It is to thrust this legislation through purely and simply for blatant Party political purposes, giving to the Labor Party a contrived advantage and, at the same time, venting its continuing contempt for country people. If the Labor Party cannot beat the country people, it will try to abolish them. Well, the Labor Party will fail because it is the country people of Australia who are taking the lead in ridding this nation of a bad Government; and I hope that they will do that before not too long. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of  Mr Hawke  's claim that the petroleum royal commission completely exonerated him in relation to the ACTU-Solo crude oil deal? Is the Prime Minister satisfied that  Mr Hawke  as  Chairman  and Managing Director of ACTUSolo and  President  of the Federal Executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions which unanimously endorsed  Mr Souter  's action, was completely unaware of the nature of the deal both when it was made and when he launched the discount petrol venture as  Chairman  and Managing Director of ACTU-Solo? 
I should like to speak to these amendments requested by the Senate. The amendments were proposed by the Government, recognising the difficulties it was finding in applying the new export coal tax. When this tax was announced I criticised the Government heavily because it was obvious that it was an ill conceived tax. It was brought in hastily without a real understanding of the wide ramifications, and those ramifications are numerous. The one that disturbs the Opposition most is the impact the tax will have on a number of major coal development projects around Australia at a time when we want to give a boost to further development. This is only a deterrent. We also pointed out that the tax would have grave inconsistencies in its application, that some mines would be found to be in a position where they would have the higher tax imposedthat imposed on coking coal- whilst really their coal was graded as a steaming coal type, and that some of the companies producing steaming coal were operating on such low margins that they could not continue to operate. 
I made the point clearly about the mines in the Lithgow area and the prospects they had for filling export orders for their steaming coal and also the prospects for further development. 
-There are many cases in the Hunter Valley where this applies. This amendment is a remedy for just a few in the industry. We will see a lot more amendments come back into this chamber if this Bill is to be applied fairly and satisfactorily. I imagine that even without those necessary amendments there will be some people in the industry who can use devices to avoid paying either the $2 a tonne or the $6 a tonne tax by blending their coal. What a stupid piece of legislation it is if people can use these devices. By getting a percentage point under the ash free content for coking coal a company would pay the $2 tax instead of the $6 tax. This is just a mechanical way of getting around the tax. 
A person who is producing steaming coal where it is marginal whether he pays the $2 tax will produce a lower grade and not even pay the $2 tax. So if the producer is smart or has the capital to put in the plant or if he has the mining circumstances to be able to do these things he will be let off and the other person who is at a disadvantage has to pay the higher tax. This is the absurdity of this sort of tax being applied. The Government should recognise that it has made a blue and try to have the whole thing reanalysed if it is so concerned about getting the tax. 
Why did the Government impose the tax? Because of its obsession about some of the big open cut coal mining operations in Queensland it has penalised the industry right across Australia. Even with these amendments a lot of small mines, particularly in New South Wales which have export orders for either coking coal or steaming coal, will still be put out of business. Their operations will not be profitable. There will be a multitude of projects where there is a possibility for expansion of existing mines or bringing in new mines that will not take effect. I think it is tragic when there is so much unemployment around Australia, where we want to build up employment capacity and commercial activity in a lot of country regions- it is mainly country regions which this tax affects- that the Government is naive and absurd enough to bring forward this legislation just out of spite against some of the big operations in Queensland. 
It appears that in the case of the mines at Lithgow, Austen and Buta Pry Ltd and Coalex Pty Ltd will get the advantage of these amendments, and I am pleased. They might have to do some blending. But at Wallarah, where Coal and Allied Industries Ltd operates the mines will not be exempt and the operation will be gravely threatened. I mention a few of these mines because I have had the chance of getting in touch with the companies since I found that the Bill was to be dealt with this morning. But I imagine that if one went right round the industry one would find different circumstances in every one of these mining operations. Surely the Government could have consulted all of these people to find out just what are the ramifications. But no, in a blatant doctrinaire way it has come forward trying to meet one situation but not recognising that there is a multitude of other situations. 
Above all, I do not believe in the philosophy of export taxes. They are retrograde taxes. They are a depressant against encouraging people to get into the export business. If ever a country has developed and prospered through exports it has been Australia. If we are to have any future aspirations and hopes for this country we ought to be developing our export industries as hard as we can possibly go. But no, if there are any prospects that someone will have a boom or success this Government will clamp down as hard as it can. I am just staggered that the Government is doing it to the coal mining industry. The Government is supposed to be the representative of the coal miners throughout Australia. This is one indication that the Government does not even care about the people it is supposed to represent. I should have thought that the trade union movement, which is supposed to represent these coal workers, would have been here in Canberra explaining the situation to the Government and seeing that some decent legislation comes forward, not this piecemeal operation which will not correct the situation for many in the industry. It certainly helps just a few, but it is not a comprehensive means of coping with a most difficult and complicated situation. 

 Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.1 5 p.m. 

The Opposition raises as a matter of public importance the statements by  Mr Harold  Souter, Secretary of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, and  Mr Hawke, President  of the ACTU, which call into question the findings of the Royal Commission on Petroleum in relation to the contract by Allied Petrochemicals Pty Ltd to supply crude oil to ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd. The Government has fully accepted the findings of the royal commission. The royal commission found that the directors of ACTU-Solo Pty Ltd and the company APC and one of its directors deliberately deceived the Government by misrepresenting the price being paid for the oil involved.  Mr Souter,  however, disputes the findings of the royal commission. He has stated publicly that he has been 'maligned' by the report which is a 'whitewash', and which makes him a 'scapegoat' while 'letting the Government off the hook'.  Mr Souter  says that the report is ' not only unfair but it is also incorrect ', that it has not analysed the facts of the case, and has not presented the facts in relation to the evidence.  Mr Hawke  has supported  Mr Souter's  claims and he has described the report as unfair. These are very serious charges, yet the Government has hastily accepted the findings of the royal commission without bothering to investigate the claims made by  Mr Souter  and supported by  Mr Hawke.  The Opposition is not satisfied that the Government has considered the report and findings of the royal commission sufficiently. The public statements made by  Mr Souter  and  Mr Hawke  lead us to believe that the Government may have been too hasty in accepting the report of the royal commission. We also believe that there were omissions during the hearing before the royal commission- and consequently in the report itself- which lead us to call for further examination of this matter. 
The first question which arises is why the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  was not called to give evidence before the royal commission. The royal commission's findings that the Minister was deceived is based on 'natural inferences' drawn from a report of a telephone conversation between the Minister and  Mr Souter,  from departmental files, and from the terms of the Minister's letter dated 26 June 1975 approving the ACTU deal. The Government's approach before the commission was to argue that  Mr Souter  and the Minister had never discussed the actual deal. It is clear that  Mr Liddell,  counsel for the Government, was misled by the Government in its brief. Unfortunately for the Government's case, the Minister made certain statements in this House on 2 September which contradicted this. Surely the question whether  Mr Souter  had discussed the ACTU deal with the Minister was vital to the question whether the Minister may have had any previous knowledge of the two contracts.  Mr Liddell  relied heavily on  Mr Souter's  statements to argue that since  Mr Souter  had never discussed the ACTU deal with the Minister,  Mr Souter's  statements regarding the Minister's attitude to the deal were all based on events and discussions surrounding the IOC and AGL contracts. The Royal Commission did not call officers of the Department of Minerals and Energy to give evidence before it. This was despite the fact that amongst the documents tendered in evidence before the Commission there is clear evidence that the departmental officers suspected that there might be a supplementary agreement between ACTU-Solo and APC. The Minister admitted in the House that he had seen these documents. I ask for leave to incorporate in  Hansard  an extract from the telex from  Mr Gartland  to the First Assistant Secretary, Econcomic and General Division, Department of Minerals and Energy, dated 24 June 1975 and an extract from a departmental memorandum to the Minister from D. H. Hunter, First Assistant Secretary, Department of Minerals and Energy, dated 26 June 1975. These are exhibits before the Royal Commission. 
I hand copies of the extracts to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. This telex is a remarkable document. The Department raised the possibility that APC and ACTUSolo might have a secret deal and a separate contract and it is  surely no  coincidence that the Department made specific reference to bulk storage facilities which were in fact the pretext on which the second contract was concluded. Apart from its omission in calling witnesses, the Royal Commission in its report fails to examine the claims by  Mr Souter  that he was acting in a way which he believed would be acceptable to the Minister.  Mr Souter  made statements several times under oath to this effect. At page 4276 of the transcript of evidence,  Mr Souter  said:  . . . my clear understanding of the concept and the basis of the sale of the crude was that the commercial sale was distinctly not a matter for Government approval. 

 Mr Shannon, counsel for the ACTU, even went so far as to suggest that  Mr Souter  obtained from the Minister the idea of two contracts. I ask for leave to incorporate in  Hansard 2  extracts from the transcript of proceedings of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. The extracts, from pages 4496 and 4497 of that transcript, are from the final address by  Mr Shannon  to the Commission. 
-Mr Souter also stated under oath, in response to a question from  Mr W.  Fisher, Q.C., counsel assisting the Royal Commission, as to whether he had misled a Minister of the Crown: 
I strongly object and deny that any Minister of the Crown has been misled by the ACTU. 
By insisting that the Government was not deceived,  Mr Souter  is in effect saying that it knew about the two contracts all along. In its report, the Royal Commission fails to mention  Mr Souter  's statements and the report contains no examination of the possibility that  Mr Souter  may have been speaking the truth in relation to his understanding of the Minister's attitude. It is unfortunate that this matter, which is so central to the Royal Commission's finding, was not pursued in that report. It is also unfortunate that the proposed contract between IOC and AGL was not pursued more fully in the Royal Commission report. This is the same oil which was eventually sold to ACTU-Solo. This agreement was in the form of two contracts and was almost identical to the APC-ACTU-Solo agreement. AGL forwarded copies of both contracts to the Minister for Minerals and Energy for his approval. In his reply to AGL dated 20 May 1974, this is what the Minister stated. I ask for leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a copy of the letter from the Minister for Minerals and Energy to the Secretary of the Australian Gaslight Co. Ltd- that is, the Minister's reply. 
It is clear from this letter that the Minister gave tacit approval to the arrangement entered into between IOC and AGL. However, the Royal Commission did not pursue the question of whether the Minister should have recognised that the ACTU-Solo deal was in the same form.  Mr Speaker,  the central question which the Royal Commission dealt with was whether the Minister was deceived. The Commission's finding that the Minister was deceived, which has been accepted by the Government, did not take into account several important matters relating to the question of whether the Minister was deceived. The first concerns the AGL contracts. The Royal Commission did not consider whether the Minister should have questioned whether the ACTU-Solo deal was in the same form as the AGL deal. A second aspect was the departmental advice given to the Minister. The Royal Commission did not pursue the question of whether, in the light of this advice, the Minister exercised sufficient diligence in considering the recommendations of his Department. He should have been put on notice by reading the departmental telex that a second contract relating to bulk facilities might exist, particularly as he had seen the AGL contracts. Finally, it was common knowledge within the industry that APC wanted $5 a barrel for this oil. It had been offered to all the major oil companies at this price, and all had quite correctly refused it. The Minister has also stated in the House that he knew oil was being peddled around. Many people in the industry knew about the twocontract agreement for getting around the official price. Surely the Royal Commission should have pursued the question whether the Minister was aware of these facts, especially when his departmental advisers pointed out to him that, on the face of the single contract submitted for approval, it seemed that APC was not making any profit out of the sale. It is also unfortunate that the Royal Commission did not attempt to investigate the origins of this two-contract agreement. The Royal Commission did not attempt to find out where the idea came from and whose idea it was. I have heard reports that there have been statements by parties involved in these deals to the effect that the Minister himself may have suggested this arrangement as a method of circumventing the official pricing policy. None of these issues, however, was pursued. 
Another important aspect of this matter, about which the Opposition is concerned, is the fact that, by circumventing the official pricing policy, huge windfall profits were made by several parties. APC made over $lm. ACTU-Solo gamed over $1.7m in not having to import crude oil at $9 per barrel. When such large amounts of money are involved one naturally questions whether some other parties might have been deriving benefits. There are too many irregularities in this whole business for the gravest suspicions not to be raised concerning the integrity of the Government and Ministers of the Government who were involved in this matter. Furthermore, one questions whether  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Labor Party and the sponsor of the ACTU policy of becoming involved in retailing, was himself involved. 

 Mr Speaker, the Opposition raises these matters because there are many unanswered questions in this whole business. Why has the Government been so hasty to accept the Royal Commission's report? Why has it prevented debate on the report in this House? Why has  Mr Souter  been made the scapegoat, to quote his own words, in this affair?  Mr Souter  has had a long career as a senior trade union official. He is respected throughout the community. Why should a man, approaching the end of his career, do anything dishonest? Is he an innocent party to a shady and crooked deal in which others were involved? If so, who are these people? These are matters of the gravest importance. Doubts surround the motives of a Minister of the Crown in approving this deal. We know that large sums of money were involved. A respected and honourable man claims that the Royal Commission report is a whitewash and that he has been made a scapegoat; and the Government has been let off the hook. The Opposition believes that the Government must answer some of these questions. The matter is on the minds of the Australian people. If the Government is to be seen to have any integrity these questions with which I have challenged it must be answered. If the Government cannot answer them there must be further investigation into this whole matter. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The Leader of the National Country Party requested the incorporation of certain documents. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Are any members of his Ministry members of the World Peace Council; if so, which ones. 
-I preface my question to the Prime Minister by saying that the Prime Minister has been quite emphatic today and on several other occasions concerning his acceptance of the findings of the Royal Commission concerning the alleged deception of the Government by ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd. Is the Prime Minister equally emphatic in accepting the Commission 's view that- to quote from the report- 'it would be inequitable and unjust to companies that have abided by the Government policy that ACTU-Solo should, as a result of misrepresentation and deceit, acquire any right to further allocations ' of crude oil? 
-Has the Prime Minister any knowledge that  Mr Khemlani  - 
Government supporters- Ha, ha! 
We know who will have the last laugh. I think that it is a laughing subject too. 
-Can the Prime Minister now assure the House that the former Minister for Minerals and Energy did not mislead the House in relation to the ACTU-Solo affair? Will the Prime Minister now accept the assurance of the Secretary of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Souter,  that the Government was not deceived over the price being paid by the ACTU? 
-Does the Prime Minister now accept that the facts alleged in  Mr Khemlani's  statutory declaration are correct? 
-Has the Prime Minister yet become aware of the fact that the people of Australia have lost confidence and trust in him and his crumbling Government? Does he know that the great majority of Australians are sick and tired of the smell of scandal that hangs around his Government, and that they no longer believe that he and his Government are capable of governing or fit to govern? I again ask the Prime Minister: Will he do the decent thing and resign - 
Government supporters- Ha, ha! 
-Listen to them laugh-the laugh of somebody in the graveyard. 

 -Mr Speaker, we have listened to the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  who has used this opportunity to try to create fear in the Australian community as a result of the actions being taken or to be taken by the Senate. If there is any hardship, if there is any disruption, in this country as a result of the actions of the Senate, the blame will lie with the Government and with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  himself. We have made it perfectly clear that our proposition is to defer the Budget until such time as the Prime Minister is prepared to face the real judges- the Australian people- as to who should govern this country. Immediately he makes that announcement, the Budget will be passed. There will be no disruption of Government services, of payments to pensioners or anybody else in the community; and the Government knows it. If those things happen, the blame will rest on the Prime Minister and the Government. 
The Prime Minister is endeavouring to make the proposition that the Senate is trying to unmake the Government. That is what he saidthat the Senate is trying to unmake the Government, that it is going to change the Government. That is wrong. What the Senate is doing is allowing the Australian people to decide who will be the government of this country. But, of course, the Government is not game to face its jury. It is not game to let the people of Australia make a final decision as to whom they want to run this country. 

 Mr Speaker, there is no surer sign of guilt, there is no more certain indication that the Government has something to hide, than for the Prime Minister to move in this House the motion that we are now considering which pleads for confidence in himself and in his Government. If ever there was a clear sign that this is a broken decomposing government that is running scared, it is the motion before the House today. There is not more unmistakable evidence that the Government had doubts about itself and has a lack of confidence that it can win the Australian people's support than a motion in this place seeking support for the Prime Minister. This incompetent, corrupt, discredited, pathetic circus calls itself the Government. Goodness me, it is obvious that it is running scared, that it is in really deep trouble. 
The Australian public will not be fooled by this motion. Every man, woman and child knows that the Government has the numbers in this place. Of course it is going to win the vote on this motion, but what a sham it is for the Prime Minister to come into this place and ask for support and confidence. He should go and ask the other House of Parliament what it thinks of the Government; then he will get an answer. I think there is no more apt remark than one made by a certain  Mr Hawke  just a few days ago, and what did he say? He called this 'the coward's castle'. Well, certainly it is a coward's castle today when the Prime Minister comes in here trying to get an endorsement, trying to get support. Why does he not go out into the real arena and face the Australian people and see whether they will give him support? There are, I believe, some good decent men on the Government side of the House, but how long are they going to put up with this Prime Minister? How long are they going to accept all the decisions made by this ruthless, ambitious man desperately clinging to office in his eleventh hour as he sees it sliding away from him? If they do just blindly follow then they will be leading themselves and their own Party to utter destruction. 
Goodness me, I admire their loyalty. I will admire their loyalty if they support this motion of confidence today. I do not expect any of them to cross the floor of the House, but they have some deep thinking to do amongst themselves. As one Labor man who came out of the Caucus meeting the other day after the dumping and the sacking of the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  said: 'If you want any loyalty around this place you had better go and buy a dog'. And that is pretty true. Certainly there is admirable loyalty amongst private members of the Labor Party and the Ministers to their Prime Minister, but how much loyalty is there in the Prime Minister to the rest of them? He will desert any one of them at any time to protect his own skin and that is what we have seen going on and on. This man is involved up to his neck in the overseas loans scandal and he knows that he cannot hide from it. But the rank and file members of the Labor Party have some real thinking to do. They must recognise the consequences of what this desperate man is doing. What he is trying to do now is to avoid the determination of the Senate that this Government should go to the people. That is what he is trying to do. He is trying to say that we are going to have an election for half the Senate. Have honourable members on the Government side thought of the consequences of that and of the consequences of dragging out the possibility of a House ofRepresentatives election till next year? 
How long are the Australian people going to put up with this uncertainty and with this man doing anything to remain in office knowing full well that this is his last chance. He has no dignity or pride, otherwise he would resign as any man in his position would, or he would take his Party to the people for a decision. If the Government does decide to have a half Senate election and the Prime Minister goes out to the GovernorGeneral the Governor-General will have some questions to ask, and rightly so because he has been misled on 2 occasions by the Prime Minister. The first was on the proposition that the Petroleum and Minerals Authority question was a double dissolution issue. The GovernorGeneral had just been appointed so it was quite natural that this should sneak through, but the Prime Minister would not have been unaware of it. He thought he would get it through. Then there was the loans affair with the Executive Council minute. The Prime Minister went out there and misled him, pretending that he could get authority because the loan was for temporary purposes. The Governor-General was not even at that Executive Council meeting but when the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Treasurer, the Minister for Minerals and Energy and the Attorney-General all signed the documents it was pretty natural that when the matter came before the Governor-General at a later date he would have thought it had been thoroughly examined and researched and that he would have signed it. But is he going to be so easy this time? When the Prime Minister goes out there and says: 'I want a half Senate election', the Governor-General must say: 'What will you do if you do not get control of the Senate after a half Senate election? Are you going to come back to me and say that you want a double dissolution for the 23 or so Bills that are double dissolution issues now?' I think the Governor-General would have to say to himself: 'I could not ask the people to vote again in a Senate election, so it will just be a House of Representatives election'. Where will the ordinary Labor members be then when they have to face the people in a House of Representatives election knowing that they have not got control of the Senate and that there can be no double dissolution? 
Those are the issues that they have to think about. Are they going along just like puppets following this Prime Minister who has only one thing in mind and that is to remain in office, because he knows it is slipping away from him? How much longer are people like the present Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean),  the honourable member for Cunningham, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  the former  Speaker  of this House- all these people who were just dumped, who were sacrificed, who were good loyal Labor men with a long tradition associated with - 
-The honourable member for Eden-Monaro- are you prepared to dump your colleagues? 
-What I am endeavouring to do is to point out to the whole Australian public and especially the Labor members in this House that they had better not just go along with the desperate actions of this Prime Minister because he is prepared to pull everything down with the one ruthless ambition of staying in power. If he is just going to delay and delay and cause the hardship that the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  is trying to threaten the Australian people with -  ( Government supporters interjecting). 
-He is doing it, nobody else. If there is going to be delay and double elections as a result of the Prime Minister refusing to face the Australian people then it is they, the members of the Labor Party, who will suffer. It is they who will see their finances drained away by election after election. They have some real thinking to do and all I can say is: Bigger fools they if they do not really think about the issue. I do not expect them to cross the floor of this House today. Everybody knows that this motion is a stunt. If the Labor members just let this Prime Minister run them then they will get whatever they deserve because there is no loyalty in him to any of them. They know that.  His  performance shows it and it is about time they rallied and decided whether the Prime Minister ought to go or whether they should watch their whole party being decimated. 
The Prime Minister has tried to make a mockery of this. We know only too well from his former statements that he believes implicitly in the attitude the Senate is taking.  Mr Whitlam  on 12 June 1970 in this Parliament said: 
Any government which is defeated by the Parliament on a major taxation Bill should resign. . . 
This Bill will be defeated in another place. The Government should then resign. 
The same thing was said by the then Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Murphy,  who said that the Senate had absolute power and that the Labor Party would use that power in blocking any financial measure to pursue its own policies and its own beliefs. It is hypocrisy now to say that the Senate has not got the power. It has the power. 
This Government realises that it has lost the support of the Australian people. It is frightened to face its electors. It is time that the Labor Party as a whole, if it has any wisdom, made a decision which is in the best interests of the Australian people and of preserving our parliamentary institution as well as its parliamentary party. 
-The Prime Minister will recall last week answering a question on notice of the honourable member for Curtin in which the honourable member asked that a certain letter be tabled in this House. The Prime Minister's reply said that the correspondence involved  Sir William  Gunn and because of the confidential nature of it he could not table it. I have been in contact with  Sir William  Gunn and he assures me that there is nothing of a confidential nature that concerns him. Will the Prime Minister now table that letter? 
We have listened with a great deal of interest to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Young).  We have listened to him before in this House, but I doubt whether we have ever before heard him make such a frantic, panic-like speech- almost an hysterical speech. He tries to accuse us of being doubtful about our decision, and" he says that we are wrong.  His  argument crumbles to the ground when we ask him: 'If you are so confident why do you not go to the Australian people and let them decide?' But of . course he is panicky and he is hysterical because .he- is frightened to face his masters, the Australian people. He is one of the Prime Minister's mob. He is trying to back him up on what is now a completely illegal stand by saying that the Senate has not got the power to force the Government to go to the Australian people. That is dishonest and it is typical of the dishonesty that we have seen time and time again from our present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Of course I can understand this lightweight corning into the debate today. He is probably the only one the Prime Minister can now round up, having lopped off the heads of most of those on the front bench. Of course he must try desperately now to regain the ground which he lost this morning in the ballot to fill a ministerial vacancy. 
The Prime Minister comes in here and says he gives his solemn oath to preserve the Constitution. Goodness me, what is his oath worth? He has misled and deceived this Parliament so many times that his oath is not worth a cracker. This man cannot any longer be trusted by the Australian people. He says that there have been no charges, no allegations, no accusations against him as far as the overseas loans affair is concerned. Goodness me, the  Hansard  records of this House and of the Senate are full of accusations against him, but of course he will not reveal the facts. It is just one big cover-up after another, because if the truth does come out it will highlight this Government as being involved in another Watergate- Australia's great Watergate. Why will he not bring forward these documents? Why will he not answer questions in this House? Why did he not answer the question today as to whether he knew that the former Minister for Minerals and Energy, the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  had knowledge of his authority to seek loans after 23 May? 
The truth is that the Prime Minister did know. That is why he will not answer the question. He has dumped this former Minister on false pretences. If Labor Party supporters want to be so foolish as to follow this Prime Minister blindly then they will be led to their destruction, but he is not going to lead this country to destruction because we will fight this issue. The issue here is the preservation of our Constitution. He is trying to smash it. Honourable members opposite should have learnt from his experience in Queensland when the Prime Minister went up there and tried to take on the Queensland Premier. The Queensland people gave the most overwhelming rejection of this man that there has ever been. The next episode was his visit to the electorate of Bass, and that resulted in the greatest swing against a government that we have seen in any by-election for years. The people rejected the Prime Minister. What happened in South Australia, the State from which the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Port Adelaide, comes? The people disowned the Prime Minister; they did not want him. The Premier of that State said: 'We will have nothing to do with  Mr Whitlam  and his Government'. 
This Prime Minister is trying to break the Senate. This Prime Minister has wrecked and breached more conventions and customs than any other Prime Minister or any other person in Australia. No Prime Minister has smashed conventions as  Mr Whitlam  has. No Prime Minister has smashed people's jobs as  Mr Whitlam  has. No Prime Minister has smashed the worth of people's savings and earnings as  Mr Whitlam  has. No Prime Minister has smashed the dreams of young people who want to own their own home as  Mr Whitlam  has. No Prime Minister has smashed business confidence, has smashed the confidence of the farming community, of small businesses, of mining operators and of people in factories as  Mr Whitlam  has. No Prime Minister has smashed our alliances as  Mr Whitlam  has. No Prime Minister has smashed our defence organisations, even the cadet corps, as  Mr Whitlam  has. No Prime Minister has smashed our respect overseas as  Mr Whitlam  has. No Prime Minister has smashed the hopes of loyal ALP supporters as  Mr Whitlam  has. 
This Government is not a Labor government's bootlace. It is made up of a few academics and a Prime Minister who is taking Labor supporters on a wild goose chase which is going to lead the Labor Party to complete and utter disaster because he is now challenging the authority of the Senate. He is out to smash the Senate. Why is he out to smash the Senate? Because the Senate is the one brake that we have on the aggression of this Prime Minister and his attempts to implement his socialist beliefs. He is peeved at this point that his legislation has been rejected in the Senate. Twenty-one Bills are now issues for a double dissolution. In May 1974 when the Senate threatened similar action he had the courage to call a double dissolution on 4 Bills. He called it on 5 Bills, but he misled the Governor-General on one of them and on that one the High Court had to overrule him. Today he has not got the courage because he knows only too well that the Australian people now know their Prime Minister; they know that he is not a man of integrity, that he is not a person fit to govern this country any longer. He is up to his neck in the overseas loans scandal as well as the scandal of the ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd. This Prime Minister wants to take away the supreme power of the Senate. 
When debate was taking place between 1887 and 1897 among the wise founding fathers of this country one of the outstanding features of all the discussion was the question of how much power the Senate should have. They considered it likely that sooner or later this country would be confronted with a bad government, an untrustworthy government. So they conferred on. the Senate through our Constitution the ultimate power to block money Bills and therefore to make the continuation of government impossible and force the Lower House to go to the people. This power was not put in the Constitution just to create some inconvenience for the Australian people. It was put in the Constitution as a protection. If this Government should win this issue and create a precedent, this great safeguard, this great protection for the Australian people will be taken away. We are fighting more than an election issue. We are fighting for the preservation of decent government and the preservation of our Constitution. When this megalomaniac decides that he can override the Constitution we have a dangerous man in charge of this country. This move must be fought by every loyal Australian. We cannot let him just treat the Senate with contempt, which is what he is doing.  His  statement last Saturday in which he said 'The GovernorGeneral will take advice from me and me alone' was an act of intimidation of the GovernorGeneral. The Governor-General certainly should listen to the Prime Minister. It is his duty to get advice from the Prime Minister but it also is his duty to get advice from the greatest constitutional advisers of this country. This man, the Prime Minister, is leading the Labor Party to destruction. It is well known that the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said in Caucus only 2 weeks ago that every major crisis that the Party had confronted was caused by its Prime Minister. This Prime Minister is not a Labor Prime Minister's boot lace. Let us look at some of the crises we have gone through. Who was the man - 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is he aware of a report by the former Federal Secretary of the Carpenters and Joiners Union that he was told in July that the Budget would introduce a $2 per barrel levy on crude oil. What action does the Prime Minister propose to take to investigate whether decisions contained in the Budget were leaked and whether this knowledge was used by any persons for their own financial advantage? Is the Prime Minister also aware that the agreement between ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd and Allied Petrochemicals Pty Ltd was concluded in July? 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
Is the Treasurer aware that by concluding the contract with Allied Petrochemicals Pty Ltd before the introduction of the Budget, ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd was able to profit by $850,000 by not having to pay the S2 a barrel which was imposed by the Budget? 
-Did the Prime Minister recently emphasise that he demanded the highest standards from his Ministers? Does the Prime Minister regard prior release of Budget details consistent with those standards? 
After the shameful performance of this morning when the Government tried to gag every  speaker  on the Opposition side of the House, I am glad to see that the Government's conscience is pricked. It is willing to allow at least a few minutes for me to speak. The Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  tried to filibuster out the whole of the time. But after a situation in which 2 members of this House were named and there was a complete uproar, I think the Government realised that the backlash from the Australian public to this jackboot type of tactic would be quite disastrous. 
The Treasurer is certainly having a bad day. Not only has his performance been rather pathetic, but he has been exposed for one of the greatest improprieties that any Minister of the Crown could commit, that is, breaching the trust that is placed in him as the Treasurer of this country to keep confidential the secrets of a Budget. They are secrets which, if allowed to get into unmerciful hands, could allow a person to make quite a fortune. Yet this Treasurer was prepared to bow to one of the political powers that is his master and that is the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. He was endeavouring to curry favour where the power of the Australian Labor Party lies. 
It is not the first time that we have seen this rather young, ambitious man hitch himself to power irrespective of what the consequences are for some of his colleagues round him. We saw the way in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  stabbed the previous Treasurer, the honourable member for Lalor,  Dr Cairns,  in the back. When the honourable member for Lalor made a speech of explanation in this House what came out very clearly was that the present Treasurer disowned him, was disloyal to him, and was willing to sign on with the Prime Minister in his tactics to get rid of the honourable member. Yet these back benchers of the Labor Party are prepared to sit back while this unscrupulous Prime Minister can manipulate any front bencher for his own ends- to protect himself and to cover up for his own gross vanity and for his massive ego. The Treasurer was part of this operation. No man has been more loyal to the Labor Party than the honourable member for Lalor. I have viciously disagreed with him but I have said on a number of occasions that I have respected his honesty and his integrity. 
-The honourable member for Franklin is a deserter, too. He will rubbish the honourable member for Lalor. That is typical of him. The honourable member for Franklin will stand up for none of his colleagues. He sits beside the honourable member for Lalor in the back of the House but he will desert the honourable member if it is popular with his leader to do so. That is the sort of honourable member we have on that side of the House. They have no gumption and no stamina: It does not matter if honourable members opposite want to be sycophants or puppets standing back behind their Prime Minister. We are going to expose the Prime Minister to the Australian public. If Government supporters want him to smash their party then they should just let him be because we know where he is leading them. Every Government supporter knows it. They know that it is a fact that the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said in their Party room a few weeks ago that every major crisis that has been caused, has been caused by the Prime Minister himself. 
The Prime Minister's word cannot be taken in this House. The honourable member for Lalor said on television the other night that the Prime Minister had lied. The Prime Minister, in speaking to the Appropriation Bills yesterday, presented the situation dishonestly. It was a phoney presentation because what he said was that the Senate was using its power to change the government. He was going to smash the authority of the Senate because it was doing this. 
Government supporters- Hear, hear! 
Of course Government supporters want a one-House Parliament; they want a totalitarian system. They are not going to get it because the Constitution is sacred to this country. The Minister for Northern Australia  (Mr Keating)  who is trying to interject will have plenty of time to make a noise. 
Well why look so frightened? 
-He ratted on the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  so one can imagine his being a little bit sensitive. What I like about members of the Labor Party is their keenness to get into the Ministry. They do not care who they rubbish in the process. If you are left behind like a corpse in the Labor Party, your colleagues will certainly tread over the top of you. What we have now is a situation in which the Prime Minister is deliberately misrepresenting this position and the authority of the Senate. The Senate has the right to reject or to block a financial measure. The effects are the same- it makes government unworkable. If that action has been taken by the Senate then any selfrespecting Prime Minister would automatically go to the people either to get confirmation or to be rejected. That is what this Government will not face up to. The Senate is not changing the Government. What the Senate is doing is giving the Australian people- our masters- the opportunity of deciding who should continue to run this country. 
The Senate believes that this is a bad Government, that it is a Government not worthy of supporting any longer. So it has blocked the passage of financial measures. Yet we have this Government dishonestly trying to present to the Australian people the belief that it is the Senate which is going to cause hardship to the Australian people. How wrong! If I could use an analogy, it is a bit like blaming a judge for the hardship that he causes to the family of a criminal whom he had sent to gaol. The Senate is acting in a way which is trying to protect the interests of the Australian people against a disreputable government- a government which for reprehensible reasons should be compelled to go back and face the Australian people. But the Government is not prepared to do that. It is prepared to let finance run down. It is prepared to gamble with people and their jobs and to see those people go out of work. 
It will lose in the long run because it will smash completely the whole Labor Party and its reputation for years to come. Government supporters stand there blindly and are led along by this Prime Minister who has already disowned two of their Ministers and said that those Ministers deceived this Parliament and lied to it. Yet on exactly the same grounds that he has sacked them on, he is not prepared to be judged himself. This is the situation that we face. Now what is the Government trying to do? It is obvious that the Prime Minister is playing the last card in the pack; he is trying to get a halfSenate election. It is the only action- a desperate action- that he can take at this stage. He would have to have a whole series of circumstances going for him to give him the chance of being able to control the Senate. The GovernorGeneral must be aware that it is a long shot for the Prime Minister to be able to get control of the Senate by a half-Senate election. There is only one way in which this issue can be solved and that is by the legal constitutional and logical way- an election of this House. If the Prime Minister wants to do so, he could have a half-Senate election at the same time which I believe is normal and proper or, if he has the courage, he could have a double dissolution. The Prime Minister has all the grounds to seek a double dissolution. But no, he is going to try to bulldoze his way through. He does not care whether people lose their jobs. If people are put out of work, the cause will be the actions of the Prime Minister. 
We have only to observe the way in which the Government is managing its fear tactics. Its strategy is to continue to force its vicious vendetta against country people. It claims that meat workers will be put out of work and that the cattle industry will not be able to continue. Look, the Australian people are seeing through the Prime Minister. How much more can he be exposed than he was by the honourable member for Lalor who publicly called him a liar. I invite Government members to answer that charge. They have disowned this man who has done more for the Labor Party in the last decade than any other man, other than the Prime Minister. At least the honourable member for Lalor is respected right throughout the Labor movement. But Labor members are prepared to disown him because they are not game to stand up to the man who is leading them to disaster and destruction. That is what is happening. The Prime Minister will not even live up to his own words. We know that time and time again in the past he said that if a financial measure were to be rejected in the Senate there should be an election. 
-He said that indisputably on numerous occasions. The honourable member who is interjecting talks about rejection. The Government makes a lot about the question of rejection. What is the difference as far as the management of the Government is concerned between blocking such a Bill and rejecting it? There is no difference at all. But we are wise enough to know how unscrupulous this Prime Minister is and how far he will use such a rejection. He does not care at this stage because he has nothing to lose. He can harm the economy and harm the people, hoping that he can build up a reaction throughout the community which somehow or other may get him last minute support. Well, we are not going to allow the Prime Minister to have the pleasure of seeing us reject a financial measure and thus allow him to run the economy down while an election takes place. We have said quite clearly that as soon as the Prime Minister is prepared to announce the date of a general election the financial measures will go through. The Budget will be passed. There will be no hardship at all for anybody in this country. 
-There is no doubt about them. Listen to them interject. They are certainly toey The people of whom they are frightened are the Australian electors. The people who are present in the parliamentary galleries today can see what sort of a Government they have. Government members are running scared. They have a Prime Minister who is desperately clinging to power as he sees it slowly sliding away from him. The Government is bringing forward every furphy that it can to try to protect itself. The Treasurer has used such arguments as the claim that if the Senate gets away with its present action we will have an election every 6 months. 
If the Senate acts unwisely, by whom is it punished? It is punished by the Australian people. If it acts wisely, the government will have control of both Houses. This is what will happen if it has acted correctly and acted according to the will of the Australian people. 
This is what Government members are frightened of. They know that, if a double dissolution is held the pathetic record of this Governmentnot only its incompetence but also its complete and utter dishonesty and its corruption- will result in the Government being devastated. The Government is playing for time in the hope that something will break to save it. Well nothing in the world can save this Government because it is in desperate trouble, having dashed all the hopes of loyal members of the Australian Labor Party throughout this country. These are the people who thought they were going to get a Government that would help them. But this Government is not a Labor government's bootlace. It has betrayed those people who have loyally tried to support the Labor Party over the years. Accordingly, I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted and the following words be substituted therefor 
The passage of the Bill be deferred until a date for a general election be set as the Government has misled the Parliament and the people. 
Nothing can describe the whole situation better than those few words. The Government tries to blame us for stopping the Appropriation Bills. It is trying to blame us for the hardship that is being caused and will be caused to people - 
Question put. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of statements last week by the honourable member for Lalor that the Prime Minister's attitude to him had been totally unjustified, totally unfair and totally unreasonable? Will the Prime Minister re-state to the House that his action against the honourable member was totally justified, totally fair and totally reasonable? 
I have obtained from Thynne Real Estate a copy of a ledger sheet which records details of the rent collected and the commission and other charges deducted. I table the document. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I thank the House. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has claimed that I have been associated with Central Intelligence Agency money in Australia. Will he produce the proof of this claim? If his claim is based on letting my house in Canberra 9 years ago to an American, does the Prime Minister claim the man was a CIA officer? If so, will he prove that claim? 

 - Mr Speaker, I hope to have your indulgence to deal fully with the Prime Minister's misrepresentation because I am sure you realise that his accusation is a very serious one indeed. The Prime Minister's allegation appears to have been based on the fact that 9 years ago I let my house in Canberra to an 
American family. I want to present all the facts of this matter to the House so that it and the community at large can judge the validity of the Prime Minister's accusations and the character of my accuser. Towards the end of 1 966 my family and I decided, because of family illness, to live in our home at Murwillumbah for several months rather than in our home at Hughes in Canberra. I asked a real estate firm in Canberra- then known as Mary Thynne Real Estate and now known as Thynne Real Estate -to try to find a tenant for our Canberra house. That firm let the house to a  Mr and Mrs Richard  Stallings whom I did not know and had not met. The Stallings occupied the house from 15 October 1966 to 28 January 1967, a period of about  3i  months. They paid rent of $42 a week. 
-Does the Prime Minister recall saying on 9 October that he was determined to end for all time the Senate's power over money Bills? Is the power to which the Prime Minister referred the power which is conferred on the Senate by section 53 of the Australian Constitution? Is this the power the Prime Minister was referring to in 1970 when he spoke several times of his intention to force the government then in office to resign and face the people? Did he accept and in fact assert in 1970 that the proper consequence of the use of such power was the resignation of the government and a general election? If the Prime Minister now no longer believes that the Senate should have this power, is it not for the Australian people themselves to decide whether the power is to be taken away from the Senate? Will he give the people the opportunity to say in a formal manner whether or not they believe this safeguard against bad and corrupt government should be struck from the Constitution? 
I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker.  I claim to have been misrepresented by an editorial in today's issue of the  Australian Financial Review  and in a most cowardly and gutless way by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who quoted the editorial a few minutes ago. I think it justifies my suspicion that there has been a conspiracy between the Prime Minister and certain elements of the  Australian Financial Review.  The House will be aware of the statement that I made yesterday exposing the falseness of an accusation made against me by the Prime Minister. 
I am not debating it,  Mr Speaker.  Before dealing with today's misrepresentation I wish to acknowledge that in today's  Australian Financial Review  the editor makes the following statements: Firstly, that the  Australian Financial Review  does not doubt that I was absolutely unaware of the fact that a man who rented my house 9 years ago was an official of the Central Intelligence Agency. Secondly, the  Financial Review  has found no evidence that there has been any financial contribution to the National Country Party by the CIA and has found that the weight of other information suggests that such action would have been very unlikely. Thirdly, the  Financial Review  does not for a moment question the innocent nature of my involvement in this matter. 
Whilst I welcome these statements by the editor of the  Financial Review  for the way in which they completely destroy the Prime Minister's vicious misrepresentation, I have been further misrepresented by the editorial in today's issue. The editorials arguments are based on the claim that  Mr Stallings  'befriended  Mr Anthony  when he was the  Deputy  Prime Minister of Australia'. The editorial goes on to say that  Mr Stallings  had a duty to report back to his superiors every remark he gleaned from  Mr Anthony,  who was at the time the second most senior man in the Australian Government. At the time these events occurred- 9 years ago- I was not the  Deputy 
Prime Minister. I was a quite junior Ministerthe Minister for the Interior. By the time I became  Deputy  Prime Minister  Mr Stallings  had retired and was living in Hawaii. 
-I would urge the  Financial Review  if it wishes to pursue - 
I would urge the  Financial Review,  if it wishes to pursue its criticism of me, to try to base its arguments and accusations on fact and to be more accurate in statements it makes. In regard to the continuing efforts by the  Financial Review  to imply that I was influenced by the CIA and that I provided information to it, I emphatically deny such accusations. I regard these suggestions as an extremely serious reflection on my own integrity and on my loyalty to Australia. I would hope that the  Financial Review  might give careful thought to the matter before pursuing this line of misrepresentation. 
We have listened to the usual rhetoric of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in trying to excuse the shameful and disgraceful behaviour of himself and his Government over the period of the last 3 years. In a desperate effort now to try to defend his position he has moved an amendment trying to discredit the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He has tried this tactic several times recently but I am afraid he will have to get some new people into his 'dirty tricks' department if he thinks this will have any continuing effect on the Australian people. Last week the Prime Minister took a strong liking to quoting from the editorials of the  Financial Review.  I notice that since then he and the  Financial Review  have gone into reverse gear and are moving away at a fast rate of knots from the claims they made last week. But in the context of today's debate let us look at what the  Financial Review  said last Thursday. It said: 
Once a government discovers that it can govern without parliamentary approval in the full sense either in the traditional Westminster terms or in the manner of a United States Congressional independence, then in the long term democracy is indeed in danger. 
Democracy is in danger in this country because this Prime Minister has set out to destroy a vital and fundamental safeguard of democracy. He has set out to smash the power and authority of the Senate. That authority is to be able to force a bad and corrupt government to the people. This Prime Minister is endeavouring to exercise his will, and his will alone, over the whole of the Parliament. He seems to forget that the Parliament is made up of the Queen, the House of Representatives and the Senate, and decisions must have the approval of all those bodies. Yet today he comes in and debates that the Parliament must accept the will of the Government or the decisions of this House. That is not the way our Constitution is drawn. Decisions of the Government have to be approved by this House and the Senate and have royal assent by the Governor-General. The Prime Minister is saying that he is going to smash the Senate; that the Senate is no longer going to have this ultimate right and this ultimate power; and that he alone wants to be able to dominate the Senate, almost as though he has aspirations to be a dictator. He has even made intimidatory remarks about the Governor-General, saying that the GovernorGeneral will take advice from him and him alone. 
This is a situation that requires close and critical examination because out of his rhetoric and his semantics what we see is a man who is quite prepared to contradict and repudiate statements that he made a short time earlier. Let us look at what the Prime Minister thought 18 months ago, in May 1974 when a similar situation arose and the Senate threatened to block a Supply Bill, so forcing the Government to a stalemate situation. It must have been a different Prime Minister then. I quote from what he said as reported at page 1054 of Hansard of 4 April 1974: 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, it is not just time for the election of a government of Australia but for a parliament of Australiaan election of the whole Parliament of Australia. If the Senate rejects any money Bill- the first time that the Senate would have rejected a money Bill in the history of our nation- I shall certainly wait upon the Governor-General and I shall advise the Governor-General not merely to dissolve the House of Representatives but to dissolve the Senate as well. 
One could not believe that it is the same man talking here today, who is not going to accept this challenge. I ask honourable members to listen to what the Prime Minister said next. He said: 
Let there be no equivocation about it. If the Senate rejects any Supply Bill I shall certainly wait upon the GovernorGeneral. He will be back in Australia on Wednesday. I will advise the Governor-General to dissolve both Houses and to issue writs for elections of both Houses on 1 8 May. 
I could quote this whole speech; but let me go on. The Prime Minister said: . the Appropriation Bills which we are debating will be passed by this chamber. 
That is, the House of Representatives- 
If the Senate rejects them, not only is there a powerful argument of those matters which the Senate has already twice rejected and been twice passed by the House of Representatives but also there will be the additional powerful argument for the Prime Minister to give to the Governor-General that the Senate is deliberately withholding Supply- an unprecendented action. 
In those circumstances, if the Senate refuses Supply I shall certainly wait upon the Governor-General. I shall advise that he issue writs not only for an election of the House of Representatives on 1 8 May but also for the election of a new Senate on 18 May. 
But today the Prime Minister does not seem to accept that he was once a person who espoused that the Senate had this right; it had this power. Indeed, a very important part of our whole Constitution is the right to be able to censure a corrupt and a bad government. If ever this safeguard, if ever this protection is taken away from our Constitution, then it leaves this country wide open to a dictatorship. This right of the Senate must be protected at all costs. To talk in terms of a half Senate election does not solve any problem. A half Senate election would lead only to further chaos in this country as moneys would not be available for the normal carrying on of Government services. If this Government is going to take an attitude where it does not care whether money is coming through, whether there is chaos, it is the one to blame. We are concerned about chaos being caused, but we believe that there is a constitutional process- a Westminster process- that has been accepted through British parliaments over the years; that is, once money is cut off, the Government goes to the people and lets the people decide. 
How can there be any threat to democracy while people have the right of say? Today we have a constitutional crisis. Why? Because the Prime Minister of this nation is arrogantly defying a fundamental principle of democratic parliamentary government- the principle that a government denied funds by Parliament should resign and go to the people. The Prime Minister has always espoused, advocated, supported and defended that principle, and sought to use it himself in 1970. He would have succeeded in doing so had not the Australian Democratic Labor Party decided not to vote with the Australian Labor Party. Today the Prime Minister is running away from that principle as hard as he can. I ask the questions: Why has the Opposition in the Senate delayed the Budget to force the Whitlam Government to face the people at an election? Why should the people have a chance to pass judgment on this Government? It is because this is a bad, corrupt, incompetent government. It has a shameful record. It is a government that is taking Australia along the road to disaster. The people must have a chance to get this nation back on course before it is too late. 
The Prime Minister has a disgraceful record. He has smashed conventions hand over fist. He has destroyed his own Ministers. What would the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  and the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  say, if they were free men to speak their minds, about their Prime Minister? I am of the belief- I am probably of a generous nature- that both of these men acted as dedicated Labor members believing that they were following through Australian Labor Party policy and that when the heat on the Prime Minister got too hot he dumped them; he cut them short. I think it is unfortunate that these men will now go down in the history books as discredited men merely because they were loyal to their own Prime Minister. He has also smashed the former  Speaker  of this House, which is something of which every fair man in this House must have been ashamed. 
The Prime Minister has destroyed the independence of the Public Service by politicising it, which is something that we have always tried to avoid in this country. He has destroyed thousands of jobs by his inflationary policies, by his stupid policies on tariff cuts and revaluation and by his complete economic mismanagement. He has destroyed the hope of young people to be able to get jobs. There probably will be up to 500 000 or 600 000 people unemployed next year. Certainly the opportunity now for school leavers seems to be very dismsal. He has destroyed the value of people's earnings and savings. He has destroyed the confidence of business and industry throughout this country in a way that we have not seen before. Hundreds of thousands of small businesses across the nation are wondering where their future lies.  His  policies have smashed the search for oil and minerals in this country. He has certainly smashed the prosperity of many rural industries in this country and given no hope to country people across the nation. He has definitely shown a spite and a bias against them. He has smashed the hopes of those young people wanting to buy their own homes. It is not possible to do that in this country. But I suppose worst of all and most disloyal of all he has smashed the faith and trust of loyal Labor supporters who worked and slaved to get him into office 3 years ago. 
Not content with all that destruction, the Prime Minister now says that he is going to destroy the power of the Senate. He has said: 'I will break the power of the Senate'. What does that mean? It means that he will smash the greatest safeguard that we have against bad government, the only safeguard that we have under our constitutional set-up. Let us hope that if he wants to change this position and there is a referendum the Australian people will see through it. I am sure that the people of the small States will see through it because that is the only chance they have of equating their small populations in this Parliament. It will destroy the people's protection against corrupt government if this power of the Senate is taken away. It will destroy the defences which have stood against dishonest government and those who would deceive. In fact, it will destroy the bulwark that stands against betrayal of the electorate and will destroy the vital democratic principle that government can be held accountable to the people. 
The Prime Minister says that he should govern for 3 years. I ask: Should an incompetent government, such as I have mentioned, have 3 years in office? Should a dishonest government remain in office for 3 years? Should a corrupt government remain in office for 3 years? Should a Prime Minister who has been accused of lying by his Deputy remain in office for 3 years? Should a man who says he will smash the Senate - 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  These people try so hard to blacken one that it is not really necessary to answer all their accusations. The Australian people will measure them for what they are. When the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr Daly)  gets so sensitive about the word 'corruption', how does he explain that his own Prime Minister had to sack two of his senior Ministers because they deceived and lied to the Parliament? What is more corrupt than a government carrying on like that? This Prime Minister says he is going to smash the authority of the Senate. 
I do not believe he is kidding that he is going to smash it. He will go to any lengths to smash that authority and he does not care what chaos he is going to cause in this country. He will smash the Senate all right and he will smash it right over the heads of the Australian people if he can get his way; and he will smash the economy while he is at it. He will smash the Senate because it is a threat to him and to his dominance because this is the one body that really can curb his arrogance and his defiance of the whole system. The Senate is a threat to the Prime Minister's lust for power. It is a threat to his grip on office and in his fight to smash and to destroy a vital principle of government this Prime Minister will resort to any antic, use any weapon, cause any disruption and inflict any hardship. This desperate, frightened man will go to any lengths at all so that his grip on office is not loosened. 
The Prime Minister says that the Senate is destroying his government. No Senate can do that. No Opposition can do that. Only the Australian people can make or unmake a government. Only the Australian people can make a judgment. Only the Australian people can decide whether a bad, corrupt and dishonest government should remain in office. Only the Australian people can decide whether they want to live in a socialist country or a free enterprise country. There is no threat to democracy in what we are doing. We want democracy to work. Democracy will never be damaged by giving the Australian people a chance to vote. Democracy will never be hurt if the vital principles on which it rests are preserved. Democracy will never be hurt if those vital principles are protected, but it will be hurt if they are destroyed. Democracy will be hurt if an arrogant, irrational Prime Minister destroys the Senate's power to force a failed, incompetent, corrupt and disreputable government to face its masters- the Australian people. 
The Prime Minister's biggest falsehood, his worst deception and his most blatant fabrication, is the claim that the Opposition is holding the nation to financial ransom. How can that be true? How can a perfectly legal, proper constitutional action cause financial chaos? If the Government runs out of money it will be because of the Prime Minister's obstinate defiance of the processes of our democratic system. If there is financial hardship it will come from the Prime Minister's preposterous breach of the parliamentary system. If there is a breakdown of government services it will be because of the Prime Minister's monstrous departure from a course of action that in the past has been strongly advocated by him, supported, defended and even sought to be used by him. This is the man who in Opposition sought to force the Government to an election by rejecting Budget money Bills and, as I pointed out, he actually brought about a full election in this country last year because the Senate had threatened him with blocking Supply. But today he is so desperate about the situation that he will not accept those circumstances and he is quite prepared to allow chaos to go on in this country. The course which we have proposed is the proper and correct course. It is democratic, but now the Prime Minister is making out that it is an evil violation of democracy. Any man who can so quickly change his principles, so quickly repudiate his own words, is not to be trusted with the leadership of this nation. This man of principle who sees our great democratic processes as a threat to his power, in an effort to save himself financially will drag this nation to the brink of chaos. He will sell his soul to expediency, he will grind our parliamentary system under his heel and he will deny every word that comes from his mouth. 

 Sitting suspended from J 2.55 to 2 p.m. 

I wish to inform the House that the National Country Party has elected me as its Leader, the honourable the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  as  Deputy  Leader and the honourable member for Maranoa,  Mr Corbett,  as Party Whip. 

 - Mr Speaker, on behalf of the members of the National Country Party I extend sincere congratulations to you on being elected to the very high position of  Speaker  of this House. I also extend to you my own personal congratulations. You have been a friend and colleague of mine for many years and it is indeed fitting to see this distinction bestowed upon you. You have held many responsible positions in this chamber and you understand the forms of the House and its mood. I am sure that in your position you will do all possible to maintain the decorum, dignity and propriety that go with the responsibilities of your office. You are a person who has had misfortunes but one of your greatest attributes has been your ability to show no bias, no bitterness and no retaliation. As a  Speaker  must show impartiality and no bias, you are a fitting person to hold the position. I wish you many years of service in the office. 
I should like to commend the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  who has experienced disappointment today in not being elected as  Speaker,  for the service he gave in the previous Parliament.  His  misfortune was not of his own making but was due to those in his own Party who wanted to abuse the forms of the House and to reject the Constitution. 
On behalf of his colleagues and on my own behalf I would like to congratulate the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  on being elected to the position of 
Chairman of Committees and Deputy Speaker. I should say that he has been re-elected to those positions which he has held with great distinction for many years. Indeed it is a continuation of a record-breaking innings which will be very hard for any person to challenge in the future. He has continued in this office, not only because of the manner in which he has been able to control the debate of the House and the general operations of the chamber but also because of his great wisdom, dignity and fairness. I am sure that if he continues in that way we will treat him with the reverence he deserves. 
-During my visit to Japan I discussed many commodities- raw materials, fibre and foodstuffs. One question of very great importance was the assured access for Australian beef to the Japanese market. There had been a shock to the Australian beef industry in 1974 when the market was closed for about 14 months. Commencing in June last year the market opened. For the balance of the Japanese trading year, which would be another 9 months, it opened with an estimated quantity of about 40 000 tons. That figure has now increased to 75 000 tons. But of great concern to Australian exporters was more predictability in the market and more advance notice, and also the opportunity for more chilled meat going on to the Japanese market. I am pleased to say that during the week that I was in Japan the Japanese increased the quantity of chilled meat from approximately 8000 tons to 20 000 tons which provides much more variety in the sale of that type of meat. We talked about the possibility of long term arrangements, but we are very much in the initial stages of trying to formulate what might be satisfactory arrangements. I think there is a considerable distance to go before anything is concluded in this area. Japanese imports at the moment are controlled by the Livestock Industry Promotion Corporation, which is more or less a Government monopoly, and there seems to be no indication from that body that it wants to get into long term trading arrangements. It is certainly the wish of the Australian Government to try to negotiate long term arrangements whether it be in minerals, foodstuffs or fibres. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Petroleum Search Subsidy Act 1959-73 1 present the 16th annual statement concerning the operation of that Act and the payment of subsidies during the year ended 30 June 1975. 
It is true that a statement went out on Sunday night saying that the Japanese steel industry had given me an assurance- it was a repetition of an assurance that it had given the former Minister for Minerals and Energy- that it would not cut back on its contractual arrangements for coking coal. This assurance was previously given by the  chairman  of Nippon Steel,  Mr Inayama  to the honourable member for Cunningham. It was repeated to me during my visit to Tokyo. However, there are some areas which obviously will require discussion because some of those contractual arrangements had not been, fulfilled at the Australian end. But these occurrences are rare when considering what has been the regular performance of the Australian industry. We have performed well. I believe that there will be no disruption to the contractual arrangements. Spot sales are another matter altogether. I am optimistic that the Australian industry will be able to proceed with an assured market in Japan. 
I think it is fair to say that there was a lot of confusion in the minds of Japanese businessmen and the Japanese Government as to the attitude of the Australian Government because of the contradictory policies of the previous Government and undue government interference in a lot of areas. This had created a doubt as to Australia being a reliable and predictable trading partner. I felt that my visit did consolidate relations between our 2 countries. In fact, the reports emanating from the various Press- the Japanese, other foreign and Australian Press- seemed to indicate that it was a very worthwhile visit. The prospects for coking coal and steaming coal seem to be very attractive from Australia's point of view provided Japan can feel secure in making long term trading arrangements with us. 
In the discussions I had with the Japanese steel industry I wanted an assurance that there would be a capacity to take the increase in production that would come from the development of new mines in Australia. I did not want to see a situation where large new mines were being developed only to jeopardise existing coal mining operations in Australia. Therefore, there needed to be an assured outlet and in order to have this assured outlet there needed to be expanded capacity in Japan, Japan being our principal market. The Japanese steel industry has informed me that it is planning for a capacity of 150 million tonnes by 1980. There was a downturn of some 10 per cent last year in steel production but the Japanese industry is calculating on a 5 per cent to 10 per cent increase this year. All the indicators are that the Japanese economy is strengthening and moving upwards. The Japanese industry feels quite optimistic that it will be nearing its maximum capacity by 1980 but to achieve this it has to have reliable sources of coking coal and iron ore. I believe that Australia has a great opportunity to supply these materials and that provided there is this good understanding and working relationship between the 2 countries and we are both getting fair and reasonable prices for our commodities the objectives of both countries will be achieved. 
Pursuant to section 45 of the Pipeline Authority Act 1973, I present the annual report of the Pipeline Authority for the year ended 30 June 1975, together with financial statements in respect of that year and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
-There has been some newspaper comment regarding the Government's action to apply global quotas to imports of knitwear. This criticism is unfounded. I am afraid that the people who make it are not aware of the complete facts. What we have done is completely in accord with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade- GATT- and also with the GATT textile arrangements. Under the textile arrangements, countries may negotiate voluntary restraints with exporting countries. Where it is not possible to bring forward suitable arrangements, tariff quotas may be applied. Negotiations in this area have been carried on for about 2 years and while certain arrangements were made with some countries, in total it was not a satisfactory arrangement. Therefore it was necessary to introduce tariff quotas. This will not cause the ill effect that has been stated with respect to the Philippines and some other countries. In fact the Philippines is a signatory to the textile arrangements. The application of a global quota will mean that all countries will be on an equal competitive basis. Far from this being irregular, what we have done has been to take precisely the same action as the United States of America, the European Economic Community and Japan have taken in cases where they have had problems with imported knitwear.* 
* See ' Imported Knitwear: Tariff Quotas' on page 1 94. 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Coal Industry Act 1946-1973 1 present the annual report of the Joint Coal Board for the year ended 30 June 1975, together with financial statements and the report of the AuditorGeneral on those statements. Due to the limited number available at this time, reference copies of this report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 

 - Mr Speaker, I have been notified that in answering a question by the honourable member for Indi I inadvertently used the words 'quantitative restrictions' instead of tariff quotas when I was talking about the textile agreement. The action that the Government has taken is to apply as a tariff device tariff quotas instead of quantitative restrictions. Whilst it is a technical point it is quite important that I correct it. 
by leave- My visit to Japan covered 9 days, from 5 to 13 February 1976. During that period I met with the Prime Minister,  Mr Miki  the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Fukuda,  the Minister for International Trade and Industry,  Mr Komoto  the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry,  Mr Abe,  and the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Miyazawa  Other meetings were held with Government agencies, important gatherings of businessmen and several of Japan's large trading companies. 
The purpose of my visit was to explain the broad policies of the Australian Government to Japanese Ministers, officials and businessmen. It was not my intention to negotiate on specific issues, such as access to the Japanese market for particular agricultural products, or the terms of the contracts on which supplies of Australia's natural resources will be made available to Japan. 
My main objective was to remove any uncertainties Japan might have had about Australia's overseas trading policies and to ensure that trading relations with our most important trading partner are put on the best possible basis. In this context, I discussed both access for, and supply of, all our exports to Japan. 
As might be expected, the greatest attention was given to the recent development of Australia's mineral resources, including our capacity to supply large quantities of basic raw materials to Japan in the future. Nevertheless, every opportunity was taken to stress the importance with which the Australian Government regards access into Japan for our agricultural commodities, which still make up about half of our total exports to Japan. 
Discussions on minerals covered a wide range of subjects including coking coal and steaming coal, iron ore, uranium, liquid natural gas, liquid petroleum gas, salt and bauxite- alumina. A common thread running through these discussions was the question of the Government's policies on the application of export controls to mineral exports. On this question of export controls, I provided the strongest assurance of Australia's capacity, willingness and intention to provide, at fair and reasonable market prices, the minerals and energy resources Japan needs from Australia. I said that the Australian Government, like the Japanese Government, is committed to the private enterprise system. This means that the Government will be looking primarily to the private sector, in both Australia and Japan, to seek out trading opportunities, to find new resources, to marshal capital, to develop projects and their infrastructures and to negotiate and carry out contracts. However, I made it clear that it would be wrong to interpret this policy of the Australian Government as indicating a lack of interest in the activities of the private sector. If the Government sees the private sector acting in a way which it believes is not in the national interest of Australia it will act in an appropriate way. For example, if we believe that commercial arrangements made or being contemplated by Australian or Japanese interests, or any other country, are unsatisfactory from the point of view of Australia's total interest we will not hesitate to step in. I said that the existing export control arrangements in relation to mineral exports will be retained. While we will be looking primarily to the private sector to carry on commercial negotiations and to make and perform the practical arrangements of our trade we will exercise surveillance over those activities and, if it should prove necessary, we will act to ensure that those activities do not prejudice Australia's interests. The Government will not, however, act capriciously. 
The answer is yes. This and other oil companies have been to see me and have pointed out to me that it is impossible to develop new fields while the present price of crude oil remains. My reply to these people has been that the matter will be considered by the Government. 
I have had discussions with all the companies involved in what is known as the central Queensland coalfields. This area involves 3 coking coal fields and one steaming coal field. We have stated to all of these people that it is our intention that these projects should be developed with at least 50 per cent Australian equity. The honourable member questions whether it will be possible to obtain 50 per cent Australian equity. I am surprised that he should ask that question when the previous Government demanded 100 per cent Australian equity. However, I am confident that as a result of the negotiations that I have been having with these people it will be possible to obtain at least 50 per cent Australian equity in each one of these projects. 
-(Richmond-Minister for Overseas Trade)- Pursuant to section 88 (4) of the Export Finance Insurance Corporation Act 1974 1 present the report of the Export Finance Insurance Corporation for the period from 1 February 1975 to 30 June 1975. 
Discussions have been going on with the various coal mining interests in the Bowen Basin. It is the aim of this Government to revive interest in these companies after 3 years of sheer frustration and everything coming to a standstill. It is the desire that these mines should proceed so that the economy can get the benefit of these very large scale projects, but that they proceed on a basis that will not jeopardise existing coal mining operations in Australia and that we endeavour to obtain the highest possible Australian equity participation. I am pleased to say that as far as Hail Creek is concerned agreement has been reached between participating interests in meeting the requirements of the Government. One of the Australian participants withdrew and was replaced by Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd. That tended to greatly reduce the Australian beneficial equity participation in the project. In discussions with CRA I have asked that by the time the project comes into production, which could be 2, 3 or 4 years timemost probably 4 years time- the Australian equity be as high as 60 per cent. CRA which is the company involved in being able to restructure the arrangement, has said that it will use its best endeavours to see that 60 per cent Australian equity is obtained in this great project. So the basic work for a study of the project can now be undertaken which will mean that the project can proceed. 
The other 3 projects in the area which are Nebo, Norwick Park and Blair Athol have company structure arrangements which have a very high participation of foreign ownership. In all of these cases I have spoken to the companies and said that we want at least 50 per cent Australian participation. I am very encouraged by these discussions in that the companies believe that they can obtain 50 per cent Australian equity or even higher. In the case of Blair Athol, there may be some other arrangements necessary because it is a steaming coal operation and the chance of its being a profitable operation is much less than in the case of the other 2 coking coal projects. But I think that all of us must be greatly relieved that this operation can now proceed and meet our national desire of having a high Australian equity participation in it. 
I am told that there is a report in the  Financial Review  this morning of suggestions that the Government is going to bring forward certain proposals as to the orderly development of uranium in Australia. Let me make an initial statement that no development will take place until the environmental inquiry produces a report, but there will be contingency arrangements made as a result of Government policy. However, the Government has not reached the stage of examining any proposals. What has been proceeding is discussions between my Department and the potential uranium developers. When my Department has concluded discussions with these people a report will be presented to me for consideration and then I will present it to the Government, but until I receive a report I am not in a position to say what the proposals will be or when the matter will be considered by the Government. 
Negotiations are proceeding with the Americans for an allocation for this year. An offer has been made and I note that some publicity has been given to that offer. One newspaper concluded that there would be a reduction in our allocation to the United States of America market. That is a hasty conclusion to arrive at for several reasons. Whilst the initial allocations might be smaller than was our final entitlement last year, our initial allocation this year is some 9 million lb greater than the initial allocation last year. However, there are 2 very significant factors which must be taken into account. One is that there is a considerably larger buffer being provided this year between the trigger point and the restraint point. Last year it was one million lb; this year the United States of America has provided a gap of 1 3 million lb. 
The other point of significance is that at this stage Canada has been offered a very substantial increase. There was a dispute over trading between the 2 countries and whereas Canada got an entitlement of only 17 million lb last year, this year the offer is 70 million lb. Any additional trade from Canada to the United States of America has the consequence of opening up even greater possibilities for Australia on the Canadian market. What I am not happy about is a possible reduction despite that we have been able to meet the expectations of the United States. There has been no shortfall. In fact, the United States has had to give a reallocation to Australia to meet its full entitlement. Last year we finished up with an additional 23 million lb and I can see no reason why our allocation, in percentage terms, should be cut back when our performance has been well in advance of that of any of the Central or South American countries. We are expressing our concern to the American authorities that our basic entitlement should be even higher than the increased entitlement we have obtained at this stage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The members of the River Murray Working Party were as follows: 

 Dr D. F. McMichael (Chairman).  Former Secretary, Department of Environment 
-The concept that the Australian Gas Light Co. had back in the early part of the 1970s was to provide the metropolitan area of Sydney, Wollongong and Newcastle, as well as a number of regional centres, with cheap, reliable supplies of natural gas. I am afraid that its ambitions were fraught with all sorts of hazards. The previous Government took over the pipeline developments of the Australian Gas Light Co. The project was delayed because of industrial troubles and floods. Not the least of the problems was the environmental inquiry which required the re-routing of the pipeline. That caused a delay which cost the Pipeline Authority, which took over on behalf of the Government, something like $90m extra. So all of that meant that today the attractiveness of the scheme is not what it was originally thought. 
However, the haulage agreement between the Pipeline Authority and the Australian Gas Light Co. provided that to enable the Australian Gas Light Co. to supply these various towns with gas there was an obligation on the New South Wales Government to have the pipeline constructed by the Pipeline Authority to a receival point. However, when the Pipeline Authority gave notification to the Australian Gas Light Co. that it was ready to call tenders on the laterals, the New South Wales Government, at the request of AGL, deferred the development of these lines. That occurred in July last year. On 4 November 1975, 1 think it was, the Premier of New South Wales said that the company was ready to proceed with the laterals. However, until arrangements are made with the local government authorities no notification can be given to the Pipeline Authority to proceed. On 20 January this year I wrote to  Mr Fruedenstein  the Minister responsible in New South Wales for Australian Gas Light Co. matters, and asked when formal arrangements would be made with the various authorities which the honourable member mentioned. As yet I have had no reply from him. Until this is done, the Pipeline Authority is not in a position to call tenders. 
I think everybody is well aware of the honourable member's obsession to have complete dominance over the mining industry as a whole, not only off-shore but also on continental Australia. However, on the Government's side of the House we recognise that within the States an enormous amount of expertise and administrative ability has been built up over many years to give a judgment on permits and other matters relating to exploration and development of mineral resources. Although there has been a High Court decision giving sovereignty to the Commonwealth in off-shore areas, it is our desire to co-operate with the States to see that the maximum use is made of their facilities rather than to build up another Commonwealth instrumentality in this area. 
-There will be discussions between the legal bodies, the Attorneys-General, on this matter. There will be discussions between State and Commonwealth ministers relating to the future administration of these areas. I make it quite clear that ultimate ministerial responsibility lies in this Parliament and therefore it is necessary that there be continuing consultation and discussion with the Commonwealth in whatever developments there are or whatever leases are given in off-shore areas. 
I have seen newspaper reports about the French Atomic Energy Commission seeking a permit to explore for uranium north of the Broken Hill area in New South Wales. This is the first I have heard of the suggestion. There has been no information passed to me. Whether there has been information with my Department I will have to ascertain. But it is a matter for the New South Wales Government to make a judgment as to whether it will grant such a permit to that Commission. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition goes on to surmise what we would do if we were asked to grant a permit. Certainly in New South Wales we really have not the authority to grant permits - 
The honourable member for Blaxland should not talk about dumbness because he might wear the cap. With regard to an export permit, I am afraid that there is quite a gap between a permit to explore for uranium and a permit to export uranium. Firstly the uranium has to be found, then developed before it can be exported. If such a deposit were found, its development would have to conform with our rules which will be laid down. Then the company concerned will have to have permission to export the uranium. It is a purely hypothetical question when we get into that realm and one which I am not capable of answering because it is hypothetical. 
It seems that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition enjoys putting his own interpretation on statements I might have made during the course of the campaign. It is rather flattering to know that he studies my statements so closely. Of course I am a great believer in growth centres, I would like to see them continue and will do what I can to see that they continue, but all these things must be measured against the total financial situation of a government and this Government will have to do that. As regards a university, during the course of the campaign I said in Albury-Wodonga that it was an ideal place for an open university. A site had been chosen and planning had been undertaken. I hope that in the course of time an open university will be established there. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The honourable member's question presumably refers to the Multilateral Trade Negotiations which entered the substantive phase in 1975. The Australian delegation to the meeting of the Agriculture Group on 22-26 September 1975 was drawn from the staff of the Australian Delegation to the Multilateral Trade Negotiations based in Geneva and led by MrG. Warwick Smith, Special Trade Representative. 
The Trade Negotiations Committee, which oversights the negotiations, has established six groups to handle specific aspects of the negotiations, as follows: 
Tariff Group 
Agriculture Group, with sub-groups on 
-I think this is fairly typical of the approach we can expect from the Australian Labor Party; it believes that all production must be in the hands of the Government and that that is the only way Australia's security can be looked after. What the honourable member has overlooked is that the Government has complete control and charge of conditions of development and export. If there is to be development, we hope it will proceed in an orderly manner. If there are to be exports, they must be in accord with international safeguard conditions which are being laid down by countries throughout the world. To imagine that the Government has to do this to ensure security is just ridiculous. It only means that there would be more inefficient production where there is no competitive spirit and where the latest in technology need not be applied. If private enterprise is doing this basic work where no real strategic material of a harmful nature is involved, I fail to see why the Government should be involved. We will, of course, ensure that a high degree of Australian ownership is involved in this sort of project, as in other resources development projects. 
-Negotiations were finalised yesterday between the American Administration and exporting countries. It is unfortunate that voluntary restraints are continuing to be applied this year, as they were last year. The figure with which we will start is substantially higher than that with which we started last year. In fact, the figure is 7700 tons greater than that for last year. Although we are disappointed that it is not even greater, it is certainly an improvement on last year's figure. It is not fitting that the Australian Broadcasting Commission should report this morning that it was very disappointing that we got such a poor deal and that the figure was lower than that applying to actual exports to the United States last year. 
What will be the eventual outcome for the year is anybody's guess, but the fairly normal practice which is followed is that shortfall is redistributed to Australia. If we get a shortfall similar to that which we have had in previous years our total exports to the United States will be well in excess of what they were last year. 
-Prospective uranium project developers are free to talk with prospective purchasers of uranium around the world but nothing can be finalised until the Fox committee reports on its environmental inquiry. It is known that there will be a relatively limited market up to 1980, which is about the first period when any production could come from these projects, and that the demand will increase up to 1985. Various organisations around the world have indicated a demand up to 1980 ranging from zero to a slight increase on their present requirements but most organisations show that up to 1985 there will be a quite substantial demand. 
If Australia's uranium projects are developed those demand figures mean that the projects would need to be conducted in an orderly manner so that the world market would not be oversupplied. At the moment the price of uranium is considerably higher than it was a few years ago. Spot sales are being made for as high as $40 a pound, and to over-supply the market naturally would depress prices. So we want to try to bring on projects which will maintain a fair and reasonable price for producers. Specific developments in this area will depend upon the results of the Fox inquiry and until those are received I do not think the Government will make any firm policy statements. 
-The question is a bit hard to follow. It is a little confusing when the honourable member ties up prices with aggression and what have you. My statement last night related to Australia's huge resources of raw materials, particularly uranium. I pointed out that we have a responsibility to mankind to see that these are shared, at the same time looking after Australia's own national interests in ensuring that we get a fair and adequate price and also that there are adequate supplies to meet our own need. But if we take a stance that we will not develop these resources, that we will hoard them, that we will leave them in the ground while the world is crying out for energy supplies to maintain its standard of living, to develop, to feed, to clothe and to house its people we will not be able to face the rest of mankind, and ultimately we will reach a situation of great tenseness between countries. Countries would start looking to Australia and wondering what we were going to do about the position. I am not talking about today or tomorrow but, in the case of uranium, I am talking about a decade or two from now. 
We know that by the year 2000 more than 50 per cent of the world's power generation will come from uranium fuel unless other sources of energy are found. In the meantime, no other sources of energy are known. Therefore we have a responsibility to see that uranium is developed sensibly and responsibly, meeting all the safeguard requirements and not allowing it to get into the hands of people with no regard for the proprieties of developing a strategic raw material which can be used for military purposes. I am pleased to see that the world is moving to a stage of enforcing rules and bringing down regulations to see that this material does not get into the wrong hands and that all members of the human family get the benefit of it as well as protecting themselves. 
It is of great interest to listen to the Opposition trying to justify its approach to the Australian mining industry and to Japan during the last 3 disastrous years. The Australian mining industry will never forget the attitude and the approach of a Labor Government to it. In a country which is endowed with enormous resources, during the whole 3 years of its regime not one major mining project got under way because of bureaucratic interference and confusing policies. The Opposition talks about Australia- Japan relations; all it did was to produce stresses and strains between the 2 countries. 
If there is any threat to Australia's trading and political relationship with Japan and other nations, it is coming from the Opposition with this irresponsible matter of public importance today. If there is such a threat, it is coming also from the irresponsibility of some sections of the media in the way in which they reported my remarks, firstly, and then in the way they have written editorial comments based not on my words but on their own interpretation of what I said. To suggest, as the Opposition does, that my remarks have serious implications for Australia's energy reserves is quite ludicrous. I think this is a deplorable attempt by the Opposition to seek political mileage out of a most serious and important matter. To set out deliberately, as the Opposition has, to damage our relations with Japan in this way is of the gravest irresponsibility. No other interpretation can be placed on the Opposition's actions in raising this matter as it has today. 
I think it might be useful if I were to begin by telling the House exactly what I said to the Aus.tralian Mining Industry Council on Monday night. There seems to be a great deal of ignorance on the subject. If people had taken the trouble to look at what I said, this debate might have been conducted in a more sensible way today than it has, and much of the public comment of the last few days might have been better informed. In particular, some of the reporting of my speech by the media, and especially by the  Australian  newspaper, might have been much more accurate. It is a pity that some newspapers seem to feel it is their job to report not what one says but what they think one means. It is a pity too that some newspapers have been putting words into one's mouth and then proceeding to write editorials based on their own version of what was said. I note that the  Sydney Morning Herald  today bases its editorial criticism not on the words that appeared in my speech but on comments that it made yesterday. There is no excuse for the media because the media was given an advance copy of my speech four to five hours before I delivered it. 
The first thing that should be pointed out is that my comments on Monday night referred not just to uranium but to all our vast mineral resources. No doubt the media and the Opposition have concentrated their remarks on uranium because to do so makes a better story. 
Let me read to the House the words I used on Monday night. They are pertinent and they are sound. They might be lengthy, but I think they need to be recorded. I said: 
Another mineral that I referred to particularly in my discussions in Japan,  Mr President,  was uranium. 
I made it clear that the Government wishes to see the early development of the nation's uranium resources. I also made it clear that any exports will need to be subject to certain specific factors, including international safeguards requirements and environmental factors. Subject to these factors, we envisage that the development of our uranium will be in the hands of private enterprise. 
In this latter respect, I stress that the Government's policy in this area will have regard to the findings of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. 
We wish to see uranium processed to the maximum extent practicable in Australia. The Government would want to see private enterprise participate as fully as is possible in the development of uranium hexafluoride and enrichment industries in Australia. 
That does not mean exclusively private enterprise; it can have Government involvement in it. I went on to say: 
I would welcome any expression of interest by private enterprise in these activities and I would like to see companies indicate their interest to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. 
Perhaps I should go on to say a little more about uranium. 
It is a controversial substance. 1 look at it this way: one of the world's most urgent needs, and fast becoming more urgent, is energy. 
The living standards of many millions of people will increasingly depend on the availability of adequate energy. 
The development of nations, and the use of resources to benefit mankind, hinges on the availability of energy. 
Energy sources are diminishing. We are fast using up our reserves of petroleum, coal and so on. In uranium, we have a relatively new source of energy of tremendous potential. 
Australia possesses almost a quarter of the western world's known uranium. 
This gives us an enormous responsibility. Some people say our responsibility is to leave that uranium in the ground. Others, including me, see our responsibility as being to make that uranium available as a source of the energy the world so much needs, and will need so much more as time passes. 
It is estimated that by the year 2000- in about 25 years' time- half the world's power will be generated by nuclear stations. 
If that does not happen, we need to ask ourselves where that power will come from- or if, indeed, the world will be able to generate the power it needs. 
If we do not develop our uranium deposits- and I believe they could be far larger than they appear to be at presentthen I predict that Australia one day will have to face the judgment of a world that cried out for the energy it needed to feed, clothe and house its people, and which we denied it. 
There's another aspect-that of our national security. We possess great mineral riches, including vast deposits of uranium. Whether we like it or not, those resources are going to be coveted by other nations who need them, and whose needs will grow as the years pass. 
I believe the best way to ensure that we do not provoke others to try to get access to our resources by force is to make those resources available to them on fair and reasonable terms. These terms need in no way run against our own national interest. To the contrary, it would be in our own interest to adopt the approach I suggest. It would be counter to our interests, in the long run, to fail to make our resources available to the rest of mankind. 
I don't think it is stretching things too far to say that our uranium reserves will give us a position of tremendous influence, even power, in the world economy. 
What concerns me most, however, is that we should realise that these reserves also place tremendous responsibilities on us. I think the world will look to us with great expectation to see how we accept and discharge those responsibilities. 
I believe those words are worthy of inclusion in  Hansard. 
I challenge the Opposition and the media to justify their criticism of what I said, their claims that my statement or my attitude was irresponsible. Do they question my statement that Australia has a great responsibility to mankind to develop and make available on fair and reasonable terms the great mineral and energy resources that we have in our care? Do they question my assertion that our possession of almost a quarter, perhaps more, of the world's known uranium reserves gives us a tremendous responsibility? Do they challenge my belief that if we deny our resources to a world that will desperately need them we will one day have to face the judgment of that world? Do they dispute my claim that the world's need for energy to maintain its living standards, to feed, to clothe and to house its growing population, will grow very rapidly in coming years? Do they dispute the information given to me that by the end of this century half the world's power generation will come from nuclear stations? Do they contest my statement that the living standards of many millions of people and the development of nations will depend on the availability of energy in adequate quantity? Finally, do they deny my suggestion that the best way to ensure that we do not provoke other nations into trying to get access to our resources by force is to make those resources available to them on fair and reasonable terms? 
One of the things that concerns me most about this matter is the way in which it has been deliberately distorted by the media to harm our relations with Japan. Some newspapers have interpreted my remarks to apply to the underdeveloped have-not countries and they have criticised me on the basis of their own interpretations. Others have interpreted my remarks as applying specifically to Japan and they have even sought comment from Japan on the basis of their interpretation of what I said. I deplore this irresponsible and mischievous behaviour by the  media and by the Opposition. Having gone specifically to Japan recently to improve our relations, I do not appreciate people trying to strain those relationships again. 
The point that seems to have excited people is my belief that our great natural riches will be coveted by other nations who lack such resources and who are going to need them. This seems to be fairly self evident to me. If history teaches us anything, surely it is that nations which find themselves in need of resources and are denied access to those resources sometimes are forced into having to take strong steps to get access to them. The Opposition, and some newspapers, are asking us to ignore the lessons of history. I wonder whether the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  is asking us to do that? Let me repeat the words he used in a speech to the United Nations General Assembly on 30 September 1974. If members of the Opposition contest anything in my words, I invite them to listen to the words of their Leader. He said: 
In this difficult, complicated, crowded world we all are creating for ourselves the causes of conflict multiply. 
Nuclear brinkmanship, ideology, border disputes, race hate, religious bigotry, national ambitions, foreign exploitationall provide actual or potential sources of tension, conflict, bloodshed and war. 
Listen to these words: 
Yet there remains for the future one of the oldest of all the causes of war- the threat of war for the possession of resources. 
The Leader of the Opposition was the man who said that resources cause war. The Leader of the Opposition, who at the time was the Prime Minister of this country, went on to speak, in the resources context, of the fact that the pressures on our world civilisation have increased 'to the very threshold of the intolerable'. He said this: 
For countries which lack resources, the situation has become critical. 
The developing countries have been grossly disadvantaged. Last year's oil crisis brought this sharply home to all of us- developed and developing alike. 
The Leader of the Opposition also said this: 
We in Australia accept our responsibility to reassure countries which depend upon our resources that they shall have steady, secure access to those resources at fair prices. 
We must protect our interests and we shall, but  Ausstralia  is not in the business of resources blackmail. 
That is the way to international disaster- for producers and users alike. 
He continued: 
Let us accept the plain fact that war for resources or food or markets by any nation or group of nations would, in modern times, represent the supreme folly. 
If we choose not to listen to the voice of humanity against war, we might at least listen to the voice of commonsense and indeed ordinary, rational self-interest. 
I would like someone in the Opposition to explain to me and to the House what difference there is between what I said to the Mining Industry Council the other night and what the Leader of the Opposition said to the United Nations in 1974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Utah Development Company, which holds the exploration licences, is committed to a program of examining the feasibility of development of the Lake Phillipson reserves, particularly in relation to power generation. The company reports on a regular basis to the Government of South Australia. 
As far as I am aware, there are currently no firm plans for exploitation of the reserves. 
Trade with Arab Countries (Question No. 186) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have noted that, in recent television interviews, the Leader of the Opposition has alluded to the Scarf Memorial 
Foundation as the principal Australian organisation which trades with Arab countries and the organisation which had, in effect, a monopoly of trading relations with the Arab countries. The Leader of the Opposition has also said that this organisation was the instrument being encouraged by the Department of Overseas Trade to foster trade with Arab countries. I think it needs to be made quite clear that the Scarf Memorial Foundation is not the principal Australian organisation which trades with Arab countries nor does the Scarf Memorial Foundation have sole trading rights with Arab countries. 
Many Australian organisations trade with Arab countries. While the Foundation has been seeking to develop trade with a number of Arab countries, I understand that the Foundation has concentrated most of its efforts on trade with Iraq. Australian exports to Iraq in 1974-75 amounted to $45m, of which wheat accounted for $41m. The Wheat Board makes its own arrangements for sales of wheat to Iraq. 

 Mr Scarf has received assistance from the Department of Overseas Trade and the Trade Commissioner Service in his efforts to develop trade with Arab countries, but he has only been provided with the type of advice and assistance that would be afforded to any Australian businessman seeking to develop overseas markets. The Department will continue to assist  Mr Scarf  in the same way it would assist any other Australian exporter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( l), (2) and (3)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I refer the honourable member's attention to paragraph (3) of the answer provided to Question No. 7,  (Hansard,  page 766 of 1 7 March 1 976). 
Since the announcement was made by the High Court validating the Seas and Submerged Lands Act processes have been under way between the Attorneys-General to itemise the ramifications of this decision. These discussions have been proceeding. At the same time we have had one meeting of Ministers for Mines to commence official work on what the implications for them might be. After these studies we will be in a better position to decide what form of legislation should come before this Parliament. It must be recognised that the High Court has now made it quite clear that ministerial responsibility ultimately will lie with a Commonwealth Minister who will have to report to this Parliament. That does not mean that it should undermine the operational capabilitythe very effective and skilled operation- that the States have for handling off-shore affairs. We would want to see a situation in which we can work in consultation with the States but, as I said before, ultimate responsibility would have to be accepted by the Commonwealth. 
-After a gruelling period of about 2 years of low prices and sluggish demand, the cattle industry is now coming around the corner and can look to a brighter future than it has seen for some time. This has been brought about as a result of efforts by our exporters, more favourable market conditions and successful negotiations and discussions by the Government. For instance, we recently concluded negotiations in respect of the United States of America market which gave us a starting quota of nearly 8000 tons more than we had for the previous year and, with the obvious shortfall that we will get during the year, it will exceed last year. Yesterday Japan announced its quota for the next 6 months. This was the result of requests that I made to the Japanese Government that there be more predictability in quotas and that the Japanese give them every 6 months instead of for a 12 months period. The Japanese have announced that they will accept 45 000 tons in the current 6 months as against the 40 000 tons they took for the whole of 1975. 1 anticipate that the second quota for the other half of the year will be even larger than that, bringing the Japanese back almost to the figure that existed when they closed the door completely in 1974. 
On top of that the Canadians have also removed the global quotas which they had on meat imports. Last year we sold 28 000 tons to them. I would be very surprised if this figure were not exceeded considerably this year. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics has also shown signs of coming in and making some significant purchases. Only in recent days it purchased 10 000 tons from New Zealand. We are also expecting to make considerable sales on that market. There are many small markets, such as Sweden, Hong Kong, Taiwan and the Middle East countries, which are also showing greater activity and it seems clear that we are going to be making more sales on those markets for the coming year. So I suppose that all round the prospects are very good. The one black spot is the European Economic Community, which, under its common agricultural policies, still has a complete or virtually a complete embargo. We will continue to negotiate and battle for access to that market. 
I think it is very interesting to see the figures released today by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, which show that our export sales this year are expected to be $507m as against the $323m of last year. In fact, they are expected to be up by 57 per cent. If we have the export performance that I am expecting and that I am mentioning to the House now, it is quite clear that the demand is soon going to tighten up. If the supply should dwindle as a result of the dry conditions in some parts of Australia, I think that the beef producers in this country can look forward to a period this year when prices will strengthen. 
I am afraid that I could not hear half of the question. Perhaps the honourable member could repeat his question. 
I will be very happy to comment on this report when it is brought to my attention; but as yet it has not been brought to my attention. 
-The Nebo project is one of 3 major coal projects in the central Queensland Bowen Basin area. I am very pleased to say that all 3 projects have now had clearance from the Commonwealth Government to proceed with construction or with feasibility studies prior to the construction stage. The Government's policy has been that we should allow Australians to have the opportunity to participate in these projects. Our policy has provided for a minimum of 50 per cent Australian ownership except in regard to uranium. In respect of these 3 projects we have been able to reach agreement with the company concerned for 55 per cent Australian ownership in the case of Nebo and Norwich Park, and 60 per cent Australian ownership in the case of Hail Creek. I think that everybody welcomes this arrangement. 
The important thing is that Australian companies which wish to participate have the opportunity to do so. I have been able to achieve this position in the relatively short time since this Government came to office. The 3 projects will cost in the vicinity of $l,500m, and when all come into production they will supply about 13 million tonnes of coal a year. One can see from these figures that the operations will be of great dimension. It is hoped that the feasibility studies in respect of Nebo and Hail Creek prove correct because both projects will be able to share infrastructure arrangements. Both projects ought to be able to commence construction in about a year's time. The infrastructure work has already largely been done in respect of Norwich Park and that company can proceed at any time although it has to conclude arrangements with the Queensland Government. 
The export coal levy is a matter on which we have expressed our view many times. We have said that we do not like it. This levy which has been inherited from the previous Labor Government has done a great deal of harm to the coal industry across Australia. We have said repeatedly that it is built into the financial structure of this year's Budget. We will look at it when we are examining the whole Budget situation. I have had many requests in respect of the levy from different sections of the coal industry, particularly the soft coking coal and the steaming coal sections and I have said that I will undertake a review of the situation so that the Government will have full information before it to enable it to examine this question at Budget time. 
In a statement to the House on foreign equity in Australian resources the Treasurer made special reference to uranium and the requirement that there be 75 per cent Australian ownership. This will have an impact on three of our possible uranium development projects. I say 'possible' because it all depends upon the environmental inquiry which is being conducted at the moment. The particular company to which the honourable gentleman referred has had consultations with me and with the Treasurer. We have explained the guideline rules to the company. The company believes that it can adjust its equity situation to meet the guideline rules. In this case I do not see any reason why Australian shareholders should be fearful that the project will not proceed because of that condition. 
-The first I knew of this proposal was a newspaper report which appeared, I think, last Friday. There has been no discussion of this matter with anybody in my Department, with any overseas interests, or with anybody. The whole question of Australia's policy on the development of uranium or the processes of the nuclear cycle will depend largely upon the outcome of the present Ranger environmental inquiry. 
It is quite incredible that the Labor Party should continue to defend its attitude in relation to oil exploration and the development of oil resources in this country. The Labor Party has set this nation back many years. Future generations will pay very dearly if we do not have sufficient oil to meet our requirements or at least a reasonable proportion of our requirements. The honourable member makes some claim that the recent price adjustment which was arbitrarily determined by the previous Government corrected the situation. It gave very little benefit because at the same time that Government put a $2 per barrel excise duty on oil which practically negated whatever the increase might have been. It was a phoney presentation. The people who are concerned about developing the present known resources of oil have made representations to the Government pointing out that the cost of developing some of the outlying fields, some of the different pools, some of the newer areas, is quite prohibitive under the present pricing arrangements. The Government has taken cognisance of these remarks. It has asked that the matter be independently assessed and that advice be given to it. We decided to refer the matter to the Industries Assistance Commission and have asked for its report within a period of 6 months. Upon this decision will depend whether these companies are able to continue the development of" some of their fields. One such field is the Flounder field in Bass Strait. If this field is not developed nowand probably it will take three or four years to develop- our supply situation when we are approaching the 1 980s will be worse. 
-The Government has made very clear what its attitude and role are in relation to the surveillance of export sales of our raw materials. This will be a watching brief to see that the national interest is being protected. It is not our intention to become directly involved in commercial negotiations which are matters for producers and consumers but we do intend to be informed at all times of what is going on. If there is any need for the Government to help in these negotiations it will give the matter consideration. We have had some very successful negotiations recently. The iron ore negotiations were carried out under most difficult circumstances because of a depressed situation. The steel industry throughout the world is working at a low level. There are very heavy stockpiles at overseas steel mills. The negotiations were not easy but we managed, or at least the industry- the iron ore producers- was able to negotiate an increase of up to 35 per cent which will apply over a period of 18 months. Now that is a very satisfactory increase to apply. It puts the industry in a much better position to negotiate even some of the larger contracts that come up in 1977. 
We hear the honourable member sort of clinging to the performance of the previous Government and the way in which it got involved in some of these contracts. I refer to the iron ore contract because the then Minister held his chest out and spoke of the great job he did when he forced the industry to go back and to get a higher price in 1974. Yes, the industry went back and got a higher price but it was only a cosmetically adjusted higher price because it had no retrospectivity. The Australian industy did not get lc more because of the then Minister's interference. All it did was to create antagonism between producers and the consuming country. The same sort of thing happened in the coal industry when the Minister raced off to Japan in 1975. He was going to solve the issue. Unfortunately there was a little affair going on in Australia about Arab money for which he had to race home. But to conclude the deal quickly, he sold out on some of the coal producers who had reached the stage where they were going to get a considerably higher price than he sold out for in the end. In his haste to do a deal, he forgot to make allowance for currency changes. As it turned out, the Australian currency depreciated against the American currency. It meant the difference of about $4 or $5 a ton. When we spread the average over the whole industry, the industry lost something between $30m and $40m because of the bungling and interference of the Minister concerned. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-I think it is to the credit of our export industries that they have been able to keep up such a very high level of performance and keep our foreign exchange position so healthy. This has been largely as a result of the very high degree of efficiency of our own industries, hard work, the use of technology and the use of fortunate circumstances to produce much of our food and fibre. But inflation is having an impact on the living standards of many people in our export industries. The reason for this is that costs are becoming unbearable to many of these people. Whilst they are still able to sell thengoods overseas there is very little margin in it for them to reinvest in order to keep up their capacity to produce or to give them a decent standard of living. So it is very important for the whole welfare of Australia that these industries be kept on a sound basis. That cannot be accomplished, however, if costs and prices continue to rise as they have done in recent years, that is, at a rate which is faster than that experienced by many of the competitors of our export industries throughout the world. 
Many people in export industries, particularly in the manufacturing and mining areas, talk a good deal about incentives to help export performance. Certainly incentives do help; they make a contribution; they are a stimulus. But all the export incentives will be cancelled out if inflation continues at the rate we have seen. It must be the objective of the Government to bring costs under control. If we get to the point where the industries can no longer perform the position then hardly bears thinking about, because the lives of probably a million Australians who are directly and indirectly associated with the export industries will be affected. But worse than that, this country cannot maintain its present standards and its progress unless we have a sound export industry. Therefore it behoves any responsible government to give its attention to the cost and price increases that affect industry. This Government has given a pledge to the Australian people that it will do something about it. 
I think it is fair to say that the Australian mining industry is still shocked and shattered as a result of the management and directions given to it by the Australian Labor Party Administration. Labor treated people in the industry as hicks and hillbillies, and disregarded the very important contribution that this great industry makes to the Australian economy. In fact, I think it is fair to say that during the 3 years Labor was in office not one major new development project took place. Probably worse still for the long term benefit of the industry is the fact that oil exploration declined very rapidly- it nearly ceased- and only one off-shore rig is operating at the moment. 
Since we came into office we have slowly been building up the confidence of the industry towards reinvesting. We have talked to the industry- that is not very difficult for a government to do, but it did not happen under the previous Government- and the industry understands quite clearly that we will apply export controls merely as a monitoring device to ensure that the national interest is protected and not as a bureaucratic device unduly interfering with the industry's performance. We have laid down quite clearly our guidelines for foreign investment in Australia. Our aim is to give Australians the opportunity of at least 50 per cent participation in development projects, with the exception of uranium. But if it can be shown that Australian capital cannot be raised for these developments, certainly a lower percentage of Australian equity will be allowed. The Government announcement on an investment allowance of 40 per cent has a bearing on the mining industry. 
Of course we will look with great interest at the report of the Industries Assistance Commission regarding tax incentives for the industry. These were all virtually taken away by the previous Government. Although it is difficult for us to give much encouragement in our present economic situation this is something that has to be looked at. But by far the most important single aspect for our mining industry is whether we can bring inflation in Australia under control. If that cannot be brought under control, even though we may have some of the best and richest deposits in the world, there is no future for these deposits if wages and costs escalate to the point where the mineral deposits cannot be extracted profitably. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) A meeting of the International Wheat Council's Preparatory Group was held in the week commencing 29 September 1975. Australia participated in that meeting, the third in a series of meetings of the Group. The most recent meeting was held on 19-21 January 1976. The Preparatory Group, which was established largely as a result of an Australian initiative, is charged with examining possible bases for a new international arrangement to replace the current International Wheat Agreement. It reports to the International Wheat Council. Its work is exploratory in nature and designed to prepare the way for a negotiating conference. A technical sub-group of the Preparatory Group has now commenced an examination of the technical issues involved in proposals which have been advanced for the incorporation of various provisions in a new agreement. 
The Preparatory Group has examined 20 papers submitted by individual delegations and by the IWC Secretariat. These included an informal paper by Australia outlining a possible role for a system of price triggers in an international arrangement containing provisions for the accumulation and release of reserve grain stocks. The paper also referred to the need for a system of consultations to co-ordinate action by exporters and importers and also to safeguard commercial grains markets. The concept of price triggers has since been refined considerably by the Secretariat in subsequent discussion in the Preparatory Group but there is, of course, no commitment to include price triggers as a mechanism in a new Agreement. 
A further paper was circulated by Australia at the January meeting of the Group. This paper concluded that, in the light of differences within the Group concerning the operation of a reserve stocks scheme, more work needed to be carried out. This work commenced when the technical sub-group of the Preparatory Group met on 24 March. Australia was represented at this meeting. 
The U.S. proposal for a reserves scheme was discussed at the Preparatory Group meeting on 29-30 September 1975 but was considered by other members of the Group to be inadequate by itself as a basis for a new international grains arrangements. Nevertheless, Australia welcomed the U.S. proposal as a contribution to further discussion and clarification of the issues involved in ensuring greater world food security. The Australian delegation to the January meeting of the Preparatory Group put Australia's view that world food security could be best assured by a package of measures which would ensure the availability of stocks and the flow of supplies to world markets, and suggested that any agreement would need to provide a balance of benefits for both producers and consumers by dealing with both shortage and surplus situations. The U.S. proposal appears to emphasise a shortage situation. The Australian delegation argued that to the extent that the concept of world food security involves ensuring that adequate production is forthcoming. Any new agreement will need to involve mechanisms aimed at avoiding situations in which efficient producers do not receive adequate prices for their product on world markets. The U.S. proposal does not contain any direct reference to price. 
The U.S. has suggested a reserve figure of 30 million tonnes of grain. However, it is generally accepted that the reserve stock level which might be incorporated in any agreement would be a matter for negotiation 
For the information of honourable members, I present the record of the seventeenth meeting of the Australian Water Resources Council held in Melbourne on 24 October 1975. 
No requests have been made to me concerning the dumping of New Zealand timber in Australia. Timber has been an important item of trade between our 2 countries. It is one item that has been included in Schedule A of the New Zealand Australia Free Trade Agreement. If severe harm is being inflicted upon our Australian industry I would be very pleased to have a look at the matter and advise the Government as to what action should be taken. I will take note of the honourable member's question and ascertain the situation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. However the date of 1 January 1 976 should have read 1 July 1976. 
The advertisement which appeared in the Melbourne Age and other daily newspapers on 26 February was part of a normal procedure carried out in connection with regular 6 monthly reviews of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. There has been no evidence that this procedure provides opportunity for financial gain through speculation in the importation of goods. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
These figures cover the period 1 April 1974 to 31 March 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the overseas investment insurance provisions of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Act, 1974. The amendments proposed in the Bill do not involve any change in the Government's policy concerning the  overseas  investment insurance scheme operated by the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation- EFIC. The amendments are essentially of an administrative character and are intended to streamline the administration of the scheme for the benefit of Australian investors in overseas countries. 
This scheme was introducted in 1965 to assist Australian manufacturers to establish manufacturing facilities overseas as a means of preserving their export markets. At that time Australia was one of the pioneers in this field being only the fourth country to provide this facility for its overseas investors. There are about twenty such schemes operating around the world today. In 1974 the previous Government extended the scope of the scheme to encompass all new worthwhile direct investments which can assist in the social and economic development of an overseas country, and which are in Australia's national interest to insure. The new legislation also provided that the Corporation could participate in overseas investment insurance on its own commercial account instead of the Government assuming all liability as was previously the case. 
The overseas investment insurance scheme has been a useful means of implementing the policy of successive Australian Governments of encouraging direct Australian investment in developing countries, particularly those in our region. Insurance cover is offered against noncommercial risks such as expropriation, war damage and restrictions on the remittance of dividends and capital to Australia. At the present time 56 investments by Australian enterprises are insured under the scheme, involving a maximum contingent liability for the Government and the Corporation of $69m. The majority of investments insured under the scheme are in developing countries and in recent years the countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations group have been the most important locations for investments covered under the Scheme. Thirty-two applications for investment insurance cover have been submitted in the last 12 months and this increasing usage of the scheme has demonstrated a need to streamline procedures for processing applications. 
The present legislation requires that all applications for investment insurance be submitted to the Minister for Overseas Trade for approval. The principal amendments proposed would empower the Corporation to transact the more routine business on its commercial account in accordance with a policy approved by the Minister, without the need to refer individual applications to the Minister for decision. The policy approved by me for the operation of this element of the scheme will establish guidelines to be observed by the Corporation on such aspects as the overseas countries which could be covered, the categories of investment eligible for insurance and the nature of the non-commercial risks against which investors overseas would be insured. Applications which fall outside the scope of the approved policy, or which the Corporation is unable to accommodate on its own commercial account, would continue to be referred to the Minister to consider whether the Government should accept the liability for insurance cover. These amendments would place the administration of the overseas investment insurance scheme on a similar basis to the administration of the other insurance facilities provided by EFIC, notably the export payments insurance and guarantees scheme. 
The Bill proposes that the definition of an 'overseas investment transaction' which may be considered for insurance cover would be broadened the better to reflect current commercial practice. In particular, it is proposed to include 2 additional categories of investment, namely, guarantees of loans made to finance investment overseas and investment transactions made through overseas affiliates in which the Australian investor has a substantial shareholding. The Bill also proposes amendments to rectify an anomaly whereby the transitional provisions of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Act 1974 do not encompass applications which were received or approved under the repealed Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act 1956-1973 and which had not been finalised to the contract stage by the time the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Act came into operation. The inadvertent effect of the transitional provisions of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Act has been to deny insurance to a number of transactions which would have been finalised if the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act had continued in force. This amendment will enable these applications to be processed normally, as if they had been submitted under the existing legislation. The amendments proposed in this Bill are a step forward in the Government's program to develop practical measures which will assist Australian industry both in Australia and overseas. The proposals will also facilitate our commercial relations with developing countries, particularly those in our own region. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The Government is very conscious of the trade potential of the Soviet Far East, and the Australian Trade Commissioner in Moscow and his assistant visit the area periodically to assess trade prospects and to consolidate and extend contacts with officials based there. However, whilst major economic developments are underway in the Soviet Far East, the relevant commercial decision-making is still predominantly the responsibility of ministries and foreign trade organisations located in Moscow. 
For this reason, the absence of an Australian Trade Commissioner Post in the Soviet Far East cannot be said to constitute a serious deficiency at this stage of the region's development. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The catchment of Hume Reservoir is inspected continuously and comprehensively by the Soil Conservation Services of New South Wales and Victoria on behalf of the River Murray Commission, and these State authorities provide reports each year for inclusion in the Annual Reports of the River Murray Commission. 
There have been no occasions when the Commission has considered that the measures or works undertaken in the catchment area of Hume Reservoir by the States were not effective. 
No. 
(a) The Victorian State Rivers and Water Supply Commission has considered this matter during its recent comprehensive investigation into salinity control and drainage in northern Victoria which is now the subject of a Victorian Parliamentary Public Works Committee Inquiry. This matter was also discussed in the Report to the River Murray Commission entitled 'Murray Valley Salinity Investigation' by Gutteridge, Haskins and Davey in 1970. 
The Victorian State Rivers and Water Supply Commission has proposed surface drainage works and ground water pumping schemes which would, if implemented, assist in the prevention of accumulation of surface salt which in turn would minimise the input of salt to the River Murray from the surface of the land during storm run-off. I am advised that the complete diversion or retention of all surface run-off from salt prone areas would not be feasible. It is appropriate to mention, however, that when such areas are flooded, it is usual for the River Murray to be carrying a high flow which is able to dilute the salt inflows to acceptable limits. 
As far as I have been able to determine very little specific information has been complied on the effect of European Carp on the quality of the River Murray water. 
Inland waters do not fall within the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth Government and primary responsibility for control of European Carp in the River Murray rests with the State of New South Wales. However, the Commonwealth is involved in problems of this nature through its representation on the Australian Fisheries Council by the Minister for Primary Industry. I am advised that the Council's Standing Committee on Fisheries has acknowledged the wide publicity given to the reported increase in the population and distribution of European Carp within Victoria, South Australia an New South Wales, and that, at the present time, scientists from these three States are preparing a situation report on the European Carp problem for submission to the Standing Committee. I have instructed my Department to seek what further information might be available at the present time on the status of that report and the implications as far as Commonwealth involvement in River Murray matters is concerned, bearing in mind certain recommendations made by the Federal/State River Murray Working Parry in its October 1975 Report which I expect to be tabled in Parliament in the near future. 
I am advised that there are various measures available for controlling the number of the carp, which include: poisoning with fish-specific poisons; exclusion of adults from areas by physical and electrical barriers; promoting commercial and amateur carp fishing; and use of water level controls to inhibit breeding. The most effective method of control would involve measures to prevent the spread of carp to new waterways, coupled with attempts to find a species-specific capicide, a biological control or a means whereby certain species of carp are disadvantaged compared to the native fish population. I understand that the Victorian Fisheries Department is currently investigating the introduction of a carp virus. 
Commonwealth Government responsibility for Albury-Wodonga development is vested in the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, but the Albury/Wodonga designated area incorporates only sections of the Lake Hume foreshore within the Lake Hume catchment. The Development Corporation does not, therefore, exercise control over the Lake Hume catchment. However, I understand it is conscious of the need to plan for future pressures which could be executed upon the catchment and liaises with appropriate authorities in this respect. I am also advised that the Corporation has expressed strong opposition to inappropriate developments in the catchment and has recommended a joint regional study in which I expect my Departmental officers will be included, to consider detailed future planning in the context of the growth centre. The Lake Hume catchment has been proclaimed under the Soil Conservation and Land Utilisation Act 1958, in order to ensure a uniform procedure for land use planning. 
The main pressures for farmlet subdivisions will arise outside the Albury/Wodonga designated area and control remains the prime responsibility of the Planning and Environment Commission (N.S.W.) and the Town and Country Planning Board (Vic). I am advised that the Albury/Wodonga Development Corporation is concerned in this matter and has recommended joint regional planning studies with the two State planning authorities. Within the designated area for the growth centre, the Development Corporation will have the powers to resist development pressures of this nature and is planning accordingly. 
These are matters for which the States of New South 
Wales and Victoria retain primary responsibility and on which the Commonwealth Government would have no power in terms of the Australian Constitution to take direct, unilateral action. Clause 28a of the River Murray Waters Agreement provides for measures and policing of measures to protect the catchment of the Hume Reservoir and I have no reason to believe that these are not adequate (see answer part (1)). However, any specific matters which are demonstrated to be of serious concern will be taken up in joint discussions with the respective State authorities. 
The River Murray Commission does not of its own accord measure the concentration of pollutants such as weedicides, insecticides and fertilisers in the River Murray. Such matters are at present outside its charter. 
The bulk of data available on water quality in the River Murray is available from South Australia. Until recently, such measurements of water quality were more directly related to agriculture. However, with the increase in use of the River Murray for domestic and recreational purposes, health aspects have been gaining greater prominence. 
Fifteen locations along the River Murray in South Australia are now measured for a wide range of parameters on a monthly basis by the Engineering and Water Supply Department. 
The Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission of New South Wales carries out measurements on salinity on a regular basis at a number of stream gauging stations along the River Murray. In addition, the State Pollution Control Commission of New South Wales has carried out surveys of pollution sources in New South Wales affecting the Murray and has commenced monitoring at selected stations. 
In Victoria, pollution orientated monitoring programs have been initiated by the Environmental Protection Authority of that State. Bacteriological sampling and sampling of various chemical and physical indices are being carried out at a number of stations in the River Murray system by that State. 
The present status, purpose and frequency of existing monitoring stations along the main stem of the Murray River is presented in Figure 1 and Table B1 of Appendix A to the River Murray Working Party Report of October 1975 which 1 expect to be tabled in Parliament in the near future. 
1 1 ) (See also answer to pan (9) above). Based on present knowledge, salinity is the main form of pollution in the River Murray and nutrients represent a potential problem. Available information shows that apart from salinity the waters of the River Murray are relatively unpolluted from the source to the mouth. 
No. 
The present status of water quality monitoring along the stem of the River is inadequate to indentify the concentrations, types and sources of weedicides or pesticides in the River Murray at the present time. Available information suggests that average concentrations of these pollutants are not causing any significant damage to the environment. 
1 4) See answer to Part (13). 
1 5 ) See answer to Parts ( 1 2 ), ( 1 3 ). 
16) See answer to Part (13). 
Control arrangements for the use of pesticides, weedicides and fertilisers in the River Murray catchment areas are the separate responsibilities of the respective States. These include physical, legislative and administrative measures for the control of pollution details of which are set out in Section 5 of Appendix A of the October 1975 Report of the River Murray Working Party. 
18 ) The Water Quality Committee of the River Murray Working Party concluded that existing legislation in the three States provides adequate control of both direct and indirect polluted discharges into the River Murray. The River Murray Working Party has also recommended that the River Murray Waters Agreement should be amended to enable the River Murray Commission to take account of water quality in its operational and investigational role. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No suggestion has been received from the New Zealand Government that it is considering termination of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. 
The New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement provides a framework within which both countries can give to each other preferential access into their markets. The Agreement provides for the promotion of a sustained and mutually beneficial expansion of trade. The imbalance of trade in Australia's favour has been characteristic of transTasman trade for a long period and arises mainly from the nature of the goods available for exchange between the two countries. In common with other countries engaged in international trade, both New Zealand and Australia have trade deficits with some countries and trade surpluses with other countries. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The latest available published New Zealand export statistics are for the year 1971-72. Details of Australian imports of various dairy products from New Zealand during the periods concerned as recorded by the Australian Bureau of Statistics are contained in the attached table. 
The importation of canned deciduous fruit into New Zealand from all countries is restricted by import licensing and applications for licences are considered individually by the New Zealand authorities. I am unaware of any understanding which virtually restricts sales of canned Australian deciduous fruit to a New Zealand monopoly. 
I have seen a number of reported comments by  Mr Tanabe  who is Senior Managing Director of Nippon Steel. I believe that these comments are quite uncalled for. They are comments which I think were indiscreet for a person in his position in that they levelled criticism at government policy in this country, which is really none of his affair, and because he is personally responsible for negotiating iron ore and coal contracts with Australia on behalf of all the Japanese steel mills. In other words, he acts as the corporate body for all the interests in Japan in the buying of iron ore and coal and naturally he will want to be buying them on the best commercial terms possible. 
I have spoken with  Mr Tanabe  with members of his board, with other Japanese steel companies and with the Japanese Government. I have explained the Government's policy in relation to export contracts and the sale of iron ore and coal that is, that the Government intends to carry out a watching brief as to how these negotiations are carried on and if it can be shown that there is unreasonableness or that the national interest is not being fully protected the Government will become involved. That has become quite clear and they have accepted it. Yet  Mr Tanabe  has now interfered and condemned the Government for its involvement with the central Queensland coal projects in which we have been concerned to have a high degree of Australian interest. I am pleased to say that arrangements have been made in respect of all of those projects. There are no Commonwealth obstacles in the way of those projects. I hope that they are developed as soon as possible. If  Mr Tanabe  continues to make such indiscreet comments he will not help the relations between the 2 countries and I doubt whether the Japanese Government or his own board would appreciate his comments. 
The cognate Bills that we are discussing relate to the economic statement made by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  last week. That statement is probably one of the most far reaching economic statements made outside of a Budget speech. It is reflection of the Government's continuing determination to tackle inflation and to get it under control. Inflation was one of the central issues of the last election campaign, an election campaign which gave the Liberal and National Country parties an overwhelming mandate to tackle the economic management of this country and to try to bring about recovery to eliminate the recession and unemployment that had been imposed upon this country. 
The Government is relying on a two-pronged strategy to achieve this objective. The first objective of the Government is to curb Government expenditure and the size of the inflationary Budget deficit. The other is to bring about greater wage justice and social benefits by the introduction of tax indexation and family allowances in the desire that there will be greater wage restraint on the part of the ordinary men and women of this country. Wage restraint is absolutely necessary if we are to break out of the inflationary spiral besetting this nation today. It is most unfortunate that so many of the comments on the Government's economic measures have been pitched at the gain or loss level to the individual. However, I have enough respect for the commonsense of the average Australian to think much further than that. I believe that the average Australian is concerned about national welfare and the overall interests of the nation. I believe he is very concerned that there is a Government that is prepared to tackle these problems. 
The burden of the response of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who is the shadow Treasurer, to these measures seems to be that all we need to do is to accept the Budget brought down by the previous Government and everything will turn out all right. Well, what more frightening prospect does that open up? The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  talks about people having to pay for their health insurance. Is he suggesting that health insurance under his Government cost nothing; that it was free? Medibank is costing about $ 1,400m in its first year of operation. That $ 1,400m has to be found by the taxpayers. The great majority of Australian people have enough commonsense to accept the fact that they have to pay for their health care one way or the other. They accept that those who can afford it should make a contribution towards health insurance, and that is what the Government has proposed. They do not accept the subterfuge of so-called free health care under a scheme which, if uncontrolled, will in the end impose a massive financial burden on the taxpayers of Australia. 
I am sure that most people have now rejected the concept and the mentality fostered by the Whitlam Government which said that they could get all they wanted from the Government for nothing and no harm would come from such an approach. The harm in the form of massive inflation and unemployment caused by uncontrolled Government spending has been exposed for all to see. This Government now has the task of repairing the damage done by the Whitlam Government. It will have the support of most Australians in doing that job. The change from child endowment to family allowances, together with the abolition of the tax rebates for dependent children, will bring very great benefits to low income families. Whilst this is welcome for that reason alone it is especially welcome because there are many primary producer families today which have little or no income. It will mean much for them. The very serious depression in the cattle and dairy industries in particular, and in some other rural industries as well, has resulted in many farm families receiving a very minimum income. Recently the Government has made things easier by easing up on the qualifications required for unemployment benefits. However, the basic change now to be made with the introduction of family allowances at a much higher rate than the previous child endowment will prove to be of major assistance to many of these low income farm families about which I have spoken. 
I think that we need to have a clear picture in our minds of the situation in which the Government has acted. Australia has been lagging behind the economic recovery of the rest of the world but I believe that we have recently seen signs of recovery here. Industrial production started picking up very slowly in the middle of 1975 and is now currently rising at the annual rate of 12 per cent. We need to remember, though, that this improvement can be sustained only with a general lift in demand and production. It cannot be stressed too much that this recovery is fragile. We must make sure that it  continues. It is no coincidence that those countries showing the most solid recovery- especially the United States of America and Germany- are the very ones that have been most successful in tackling domestic inflation rates. That is the key. We in this country have a very long way to go in accomplishing that task. The latest figures show that inflation in Australia is running at 12  14  per cent compared with 5 per cent and 6 per cent in the United States and Germany. Coupled with that intolerable level of inflation we have unemployment at the highest level since the 1930s. I repeat the point which I have made many times before: The key to putting people back to work is getting inflation down. 
As the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said in his statement last Thursday night, the Government's main aim is to overcome inflation. As long as inflation in this country continues at its present level there will be no revival of the economy. Inflation is the real cause of unemployment in Australia today. By discouraging investment, by lowering profitability, inflation is a direct cause of unemployment, because fewer jobs are being created. The funds necessary to utilise the country's productive capacity are not being directed to areas where they are needed. This distortion in investment is only one aspect of the larger distortions to which inflation leads in the whole economy. Nowhere is this more evident than in public finances. Inflation leads directly to a transfer of wealth from the private to the public sector. The huge increases in Commonwealth revenue from taxation as a result of higher wages have led to a doubling of the Commonwealth income tax collections in the last 4 years. More seriously, the cost of Government programs has risen out of all proportion as a result of inflation. As I said, the cost of Medibank will be $ 1,400m in the first year and it would have cost $2,000m in the next year if we had not acted. 
-Two thousand million dollars. If it kept increasing at that rate until 1980 Medibank would be costing in the vicinity of $6,000m. When we came into government we were faced with a situation in which many programs were simply beginning to get out of control. I know that many of those programs were in themselves beneficial to certain sections of the community. But however worthy those programs and policies on which they were based might have been, it was simply not possible to allow them to continue expanding unchecked. The Government had to take a stand and had to act decisively in order to regain the initiative over its own spending. It would not be going too far to say that we were fast reaching the stage where the Commonwealth Government was losing control of its own finances. The Government has now acted to reassert control over its fiscal policies. We will continue to ensure that discipline and financial sanity are brought to bear in Federal finances. 
It is all too easy for politicians to let programs and the rosy prospects of benefits which they offer go along unchecked. It is easy for politicians to adopt the course of least resistance and let events take over. But that is irresponsibility which amounts to political vandalism. Political responsibility has just as much meaning in being able to say no to demands as being able to say yes. Once the Government loses control of its own finances and spending a country is plunged into a morass of inflation and all the evils that flow from inflation until eventually it is faced with complete social and economic disruption. It has happened before. Let no one believe that it could not happen in Australia. Experiences in Germany in the 1920s and in Argentina in the 1950s are painful reminders of how easy it is to let inflation take control of a country. It is the height of irresponsibility for politicians simply to let events look after themselves. I recall 18 months ago a Minister of the Labor Government asking: 'What is wrong with inflation?' Not only does that attitude reveal ignorance; it demonstrates a wanton disregard for our whole social structure. It is not only insidious in its reasoning but also dangerous in its implications. The simple fact is that inflation destroys not only a nation's economy but also its entire social fabric. 
This Government is determined not to let inflation happen in Australia. We are one of the governments in the world which have acted to reduce their spending, to cut the size of the Public Service and to cut down on the open ended claims which people can make on welfare and other services. The Government has also acted to halt the great transfer of revenue to the public sector as a result of windfall increases in tax collections. Tax indexation is a concrete example of this Government's determination to put a stop to the drift towards larger public sector spending which has occurred during the last 3 years. The Government is determined to bring discipline into public spending in Australia. Our federalism policy is aimed at making all governments more directly responsible for their own finances and hence for their own spending. 
As Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for National Resources, I am particularly aware of the damage inflation causes to exporters and to people who have to produce in competition  with imports. The jobs of a million Australians are directly or indirectly bound up with exports. There are many more jobs involved in the production of goods and services which directly and indirectly compete with imports. The cost structure of Australian industry has got completely out of step with that of the rest of the world. For those industries which have to compete on the world market, the disadvantages they suffer are rapidly becoming a serious national problem. As an example of cost increases, I need mention only wages increases in Australia and in the United States in the last 5 years. Since 1970 Australian wages have increased by over ISO per cent. Whereas in America the increase has been a little over 50 per cent. Wage increases in New Zealand since 1970 have been less than twothirds of ours, and wage increases in Canada have been only half the increases in Australia. 
To go on continuing to demand wage increases is self-defeating and is bringing great hardship to those people who no longer can get employment and to those people who keep their businesses going. We cannot compete in international markets if this trend continues. Already the competitiveness of some of our mineral developments is balancing on a razor's edge because of the inflationary situation. This worries me greatly, because I see in new mineral developments and in revived projects one of the best hopes of a major contribution to real and sustained economic recovery in this country. Unless inflation can be controlled and the international competitive position of the Australian mineral industry can be maintained, there will be only further damage. Every day I hear of markets which are no longer open to us or of opportunities for doing business being lost because we cannot compete. Many of the problems facing Australia's great rural industries are the result of massive cost increases. The beef industry would still be profitable if processing costs were not as prohibitive as they are today. The wool industry would be properous if shearing, transport and handling costs were not as high as they are. 
The measures announced last week by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  are a continuation and an extension of the responsible strategy adopted by the coalition parties since we took office and indeed of the strategy which we, in Opposition, exhorted the previous Government to implement. The strategy recognises inflation as the prime enemy, and the Budget deficit as the principal cause of inflation. I come back to my central point: Inflation is the fundamental cause of unemployment. It is the cause of high interest rates. It is the cause of rising land rates. It is the cause of all the economic and social problems of this country. The impact of inflation on our competitive situation, on investment and on the consumer earnings psychology makes it essential not only that we resist the temptation to reflate by enlarging the Government's deficit but also that we reduce the existing deficit. This calls for fiscal responsibility- precisely the policy the present Government has been implementing since it came into office, a policy exemplified by the measures we are now debating in this House. 
I believe that if the Australian people are prepared to go along with this Government and the economic initiatives it has brought forward we will have recovery in this country. It requires the total response of the whole Australian communitythose who are in management, those who work, those who give leadership- to tackle the great fight against inflation if we are to attain all the aspirations and hopes that we have for this country of ours. 
I have not seen the very informed reports that the honourable member mentions. I think it is fairly obvious and well known that the burning of fossil fuels has an impact on the environment. A lot of action is being taken around the world to try to correct the situation. In relation to the rail strike which had very serious implications right across the nation, all I can say is that I severely condemn those few union leaders who brought it about. What they were doing was usurping the authority of elected governments in deciding policy issues which really bore no relevance to their own industrial affairs. I doubt very much whether within those few ranks there is the capacity to understand fully the implications of nuclear waste and the actions that are being taken around the world to try to exercise precautions and safeguards. But there is concern all over the world that every precaution be taken with regard to nuclear waste. 
Today there are something like ISO established nuclear power stations. The plans for about another 500 are on the drawing boards. Nations have had to decide for themselves the alternative forms of energy that they would use. It appears that nuclear power generation is one of the few alternatives left to these countries. They have been through a lot of public debate and a lot of inquiry on this subject before they have made a decision. In Australia the previous government decided on an environmental inquiry before there was any further development of uranium. I refer to the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. The Government has announced quite clearly, and I believe quite properly, that no policy decisions will be made in this area until the report is presented. I hope that responsible union leaders will do the same thing and withhold their judgment until we have a report instead of causing so much disruption across the country on a subject on which I do not believe they have the full knowledge. 
I thought that after the belting the Opposition had received from my  Deputy  on this question the matter would have become a dead issue, but apparently the Opposition is prepared to resurrect it. I am happy to answer the question that the honourable member has asked me. I have never visited  Mr Wiley  Fancher in Atherton. He did visit me, with the Premier of Queensland, in January this year. That was the first time I ever met the man. 
I am well aware of the honourable member's keen interest in the development of a coal industry in his own electorate. It is well known that there are very large coal deposits in the region. Some of them have already been assessed. I am not aware of any new announcements other than the one by the Millmerran coal company towards the end of last year that it had 425 million tons of coal which would be available for development. The Government welcomes the development of coal projects and would welcome the interest of companies in getting into the business of converting coal to synthetic fuels. The Millmerran company is already negotiating with other Australian companies and overseas interests about a joint venture with the prospect of such development. It is keeping my Department informed. My Department is also carrying out evaluations of various forms of coal conversion. The Australian coal industry research laboratories are also doing a good deal of work in this area along with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. 1 hope that in the not too distant future we will have some major projects under way in this country converting coal to oil or other forms of fuel which will be a valuable augmentation of our already diminishing supplies of oil. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
London Metal Exchange stocks of refined copper stood at 538 075 tonnes on 10 May 1976. 
During 1975 refined copper production in the Western World fell by 8.8 per cent to 6.4 million tonnes, while consumption of refined copper fell by an estimated 1 6.6 per cent to 5.4 million tonnes. After allowing for GSA stockpile deliveries and East- West trade there was an apparent surplus during the year of 940 000 tonnes. 
Because of the current unrest in Central Africa and the effects of exchange rate fluctuations, it is difficult to give a precise forecast for copper consumption and production. However, market sources predict 1976 consumption of copper in the Western World will increase by between around 10 per cent and 20 percent (about 5.9 to 6.5 million tonnes). Estimates for refined production range from 6.3 to 6.6 million tonnes. 
Copper Price: 
-I am well aware of the increased burden that gas authorities as well as consumers have had in many towns across Australia because of the high price of naphtha and liquefied petroleum gas. This has resulted largely because of increased import prices for crude oil since the oil crisis. Unfortunately, neither of these commodities was taken into account in our indigenous crude oil allocation formula, so they had to bear the cost of the imported price of crude oil. This meant that the price of LPG rose from $28 to $67 a tonne, and the price of naphtha rose from $25 to $100 a tonne during the last couple of years. Consequently, local gas making authorities or those authorities using LPG were placed at a distinct disadvantage compared to authorities using competitive types of fuels. I know that many representations were made to the former Government to have the allocation formula changed. I know, for example, that Hobart in particular and Newcastle have immense problems. The former Government did not seem to do anything about the matter. I asked for a report on the whole matter. As a result of that report I have now decided that naphtha and LPG be taken into account. This means that it should be possible to reduce the price of naphtha very considerably. I would think that the price of naphtha would probably fall from $100 a tonne to $60 a tonne and in the case of LPG, the price should fall by about $ 10 a tonne. The main cities affected by this reduced price for naphtha would be Hobart, Newcastle, Muswellbrook, Brisbane and Port Pirie. But there are also about 50 cities across Australia which are using LPG.  Mr Speaker,  I ask leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a list of towns which should benefit as a result of this decision. 
I have not seen the reports that the honourable member for Hume has mentioned but I would like to say that any request to build the laterals which link in with the main Moomba-Sydney pipeline will come from Australian Gas Light Co. It is my understanding that, once the request is made, there is a contractual obligation on the Pipeline Authority to build the laterals or any spur lines. However, no request has been made at the moment and it is not possible for the Commonwealth to anticipate when any such request is likely to be made. That is the reason no allocation has been made in the estimates for the Budget expenditure for the year 1976-77. It is very much a matter for Australian Gas Light Co. and the New South Wales Government to resolve whether they will make a request to the Pipeline Authority. 
-There does seem to be some misunderstanding of the guidelines which have been laid down by the Treasurer in relation to the development of our natural resources, whether they be oil, natural gas or other minerals. The misunderstanding comes either from people who do not want to accept the guidelines or from people who have not studied them closely enough. The whole purpose of our 50 per cent rule which applies to those minerals is to allow Australians to participate fully in the development and exploitation of our vast resources, but if it is shown that Australians are not prepared to participate in these developments we do not wish to see projects unduly delayed. If there is not sufficient Australian participation because Australians consider a project is not a worthy one or maybe the size of the project is too great, profitability is too low or the risks are too high, then the foreign interests can make an application to the Foreign Investment Advisory Board and if they can show that there has been a genuine effort to obtain Australian equity but that this has failed the project would proceed. 
I have said on a number of occasions that I can well imagine the development of the North West Shelf being an example in which because of the magnitude of the project it is impossible to obtain 50 per cent Australian equity, but I would not want to see the project delayed because of that. I also can imagine that there might be some projects which would be of such a doubtful nature to Australian investors that we would not get any Australian participation. But, provided the development was in the national interest, we would want it to proceed. There could be a case where there might be even 100 per cent overseas investment. It would have to be looked at by the Foreign Investment Review Board, which would make a recommendation to the Government on whether the project should be accepted. Our whole thrust is to see development projects proceed, because in the long run that is in the best interests of this nation. 
-Since this Government took office- since the Australian people put us into office convincingly- the Government has been extremely active in continuing its effort to try to get greater access for primary products to the European Economic Community. As far as beef is concerned, the EEC has been extremely limited for us since 1974. In 1973 we sold 85 000 tons of beef to that market, but in 1975 sales dropped to less than 14 000 tons and that market is still very restricted. In fact, the EEC is the single most important factor in the depressed world meat market today. The EEC is the only big importer which still has its market virtually closed to outside countries. We are doing everything possible to keep pressure on the EEC to relax the restrictions which have been imposed. 
There was a high level meeting in Brussels on 6 May between representatives of the major beef exporting countries and the EEC Commission. My officials were told at that meeting that the EEC intended lifting its restrictions towards the end of this year. They were also told that in the future the Community would again provide a continuing market for large quantities of beef. If that does happen, it will be a most encouraging move in strengthening the whole depressed world beef situation. It will mean that virtually all the big markets around the world will be available to Australian exporters. I certainly hope that what our officials were told by officials of the EEC Commission will come true. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Treasurer, in his reply to your similar question No. 526 asked of him. Compilation of the information would also require a major commitment of staff resources from my Department and I do not think that I would be justified in authorising the time and expense which would be involved in collating the information sought. 
-As the export development grants scheme comes within my portfolio it is possibly more appropriate that I reply to the honourable gentleman. In his economic statement the Treasurer mentioned that there would be some reductions in the appropriation of funds in this area, but the reductions will be relatively modest ones. There is to be a review of the whole scheme to ensure that the amount of money allocated is used as effectively as possible. The cut mentioned is in line with the general thrust of the Government's policy to reduce expenditure wherever possible as part of its anti-inflation campaign. Those people who are involved with export industries must appreciate that any incentives that are given for exports will soon be eaten up unless we control inflation. The Government's number one objective is to reduce inflation, otherwise no Australian export industries will be able to compete with those of other countries. 
The Government recognises the great importance of our export industries and it has many schemes operating to give encouragement to those people who think they can sell goods overseas. The Trade Commissioner Service is being maintained at its present level, with little interference, because it is considered as extremely important in aiding people trying to sell their goods overseas. The Export Finance and Insurance Corporation- a Bill to amend the Act is before the House at the moment- is strengthening that scheme and giving added coverage to those people selling goods overseas. There are many schemes in operation to help the export industries. As soon as we can get the economy in a recovered state we will be giving further attention to expanding our efforts in this area. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise financial assistance to the Queensland Government for flood mitigation works along the Proserpine River in North Queensland. Assistance for the project will be by way of a non-repayable grant of up to $374,400 over 4 years towards the cost of specified works commenced during the current financial year on a 40:40:20 basis of matching contributions- Commonwealth, State and Proserpine River Improvement Trust respectively. This formula for sharing the cost of flood mitigation works between the 3 tiers of Government is consistent with previous Commonwealth participation in similar projects in other States. 
Honourable members will recall the disastrous floods in Queensland in January 1974. As a result, the Commonwealth invited Queensland to submit a State-wide plan of flood mitigation which could be considered as a basis for Commonwealth assistance. Proposals for flood mitigation works in the Brisbane area and along the Proserpine and Pioneer rivers in North Queensland were submitted by the Queensland Government for priority consideration. As a result, the Commonwealth has provided $2.65m to date towards the cost of works in the Brisbane area, and in 1974-75 the Commonwealth provided $120,000 for the restoration of flooddamaged levee banks along the Proserpine River. 
Subsequently, a detailed investigation of the flooding problem along the Proserpine River confirmed the need for an improved system of levee banks to provide adequate protection to the town and surrounding canefields, and a comprehensive plan of flood mitigation was drawn up to provide protection against floods of up to a frequency of one year in ten. The previous Commonwealth Government offered to share the cost of implementing this plan on a 40:40:20 basis with the State and the River Improvement Trust respectively. The Bill now before the House relates to the decision of the present Government to confirm that offer. 
The works to which Commonwealth assistance will apply are listed in the Schedule to the Bill. Briefly, they consist of: River improvement works- such as the removal of impediments to improve river flow; construction, reconstruction and re-alignment of levee banks; construction of spillways and other works to divert overbank flood flows; and road works to accommodate diversion structures. Surveys and design work of the structures have been almost completed and construction should be well under way during 1976-77 
Proserpine has a very productive sugar industry and the flood mitigation works should enable the industry to exploit more fully the natural advantages of the region. 
The flood mitigation works will considerably reduce flood damage to property and public infrastructure. They will also lessen the periodic disruption to normal activities in the region and attenuate the insecurity experienced by local residents during the wet season. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Overseas Trade is not a marketing organisation and responsibility for making sales of dairy products rests with exporters and the Australian Dairy Corporation. However, the Department of Overseas Trade provides a wide range of facilities and services to assist Australian exporters develop new markets and expand existing overseas outlets for their products. 
These facilities include the Trade Commissioner service and the associated trade promotion and trade publicity activities of the Department. There are 58 Trade Commissioner Posts located in 46 countries and they are responsible for providing regular market intelligence reports, introducing Australian exporters to overseas importers and recommending and implementing a wide range of Australian promotion and publicity projects on a continuing basis. Early this year, at the request of the Australian Cheese 
Manufacturers' Federation, the Department obtained specific advice from Trade Commissioners at twenty overseas posts on the latest prospects for exports of Australian cheese. 
The Department of Overseas Trade welcomes and actively encourages participation by dairy exporters and the Australian Dairy Corporation in the trade fairs and exhibitions, store promotions and other promotional ventures which it organises. Dairy products were featured prominently in the Tehran International Trade Fair in September 1975 and they will also be included in the Australian National Exhibition at Moscow in July this year. The industry was strongly represented in eight store promotions in Japan which were organised by the Department and involved 298 stores in Tokyo and Osaka. 
The ADC has its own overseas representatives in Japan and in Europe/North America and is very active in its surveillance of world markets and of economic and other developments (particularly in the EEC, United States of America, Middle East, Japan) which could affect the marketing of Australian dairy products. There is very close cooperation, between these representatives and Australian Trade Commissioners. There is also close and constant liaison between executives of Asia Dairy Industries Ltd, which operates milk recombing plants in a number of countries, and the Trade Commissioners. 
There are useful markets in Mexico and the South American countries, where imports depend on the purchasing policies of government-owned import agencies. These markets are under very close study by the Trade Commissioners and by the Australian Dairy Corporation which has made significant sales there, including some under long term supply arrangements. 
In addition, continuing overseas promotional activities are taking place through the Overseas Trade Publicity Committee of which the Australian Dairy Corporation is a member. In 1975-76 the Government, through my Department, contributed $204,400 to the Corporation's overseas promotional expenditure. 
The major difficulties limiting export sales of Australian dairy products do not, however, relate to Australia's image as a reliable, efficient supplier of high quality dairy products. Rather they arise from the domestic support arrangements, import policies and export subsidisation practices of certain countries. 
The EEC's surplus of skimmed milk powder and its subsidised exports of dairy products are major factors disrupting world markets. In addition, quota restrictions which are still maintained by the United States, limit our sales to that market to only token quantities of a small number of dairy products. Access into the Japanese market, which does offer prospects for long term growth, is restricted by import quotas, state trading arrangements and protective tariffs. Canada, which is a potentially valuable market, also restricts imports. 
Every available opportunity is being taken, in both Ministerial and official discussions, to seek better access to these markets for Australian dairy products. In addition, the question is the subject of continuing discussions in international forums, especially in GATT. Australia has played a leading role in the Dairy Sub-Group of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations in order to underline the overriding importance to the dairy sector of the MTN objective of bringing about a liberalisation of world trade. 
Bearing in mind the limited nature of the existing GATT arrangements on skimmed milk powder and milk fat and of the OECD Gentleman's Agreement on Exports of Whole Milk Powder, Australian delegations to the ongoing MTN discussions have stressed the need for improved international dairy arrangements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Department of Overseas Trade 
Recruitment of staff is usually arranged by the Public Service Inspectors who supply staff as requested. There are no staff engaged in recruitment on a full time basis. 
Occasionally when a special category of staff is sought e.g. an intake of Trainee Trade Commissioners a number of officers may be involved on a part time basis as part of their usual duties, not only in the administrative tasks of drafting advertisements, listing applications and arranging interviews but in the more important tasks of interviewing and selection. Direct recruitment is infrequent and for this reason it is difficult to be precise, however it is estimated that the equivalent of full time staff involved in such activity would be only of the order of some 200 man hours at an approximate cost of $ 1 500 per annum. 
Nil. 
Nil. 
Nil. 
Export Finance and Insurance Corporation 
1 ) No officer is engaged full time on recruitment duties. A number of officers is involved briefly when recruitment is necessary- approximately 4 or 5 employees are engaged per year. 
Private employment agencies are sometimes usedmainly for typing staff. 
$856 were paid to the Commercial Employees Agency in 1974-75 in relation to the engagement of 5 employees. 
Enquiries for staff are sometimes placed with the Commonwealth Employment Service. No payment is required. 
For the information of honourable members I present the resolution for the extension of the 1 973 International Sugar Agreement. 
For the information of honourable members I present the protocols for the third extension of the Wheat Trade Convention and Food Aid Convention constituting the International Wheat Agreement, 197 1 . 
-I am aware of the statement made by  Mr Madigan,  the  chairman  of the Blair Athol company, and I have read his reasons for it.  His  reasons vary, to a degree, as between newspaper reports. The one report I have seen that is completely accurate is that published in the  Australian Financial Review.  Other newspapers seem to put a great deal of emphasis on the Government s equity guidelines or rules.  Mr Madigan  gave 3 principal reasons why this great steaming coal deposit cannot be developed at the moment. They were, firstly, that the Japanese market had not developed as the company might have expected, secondly, that the existing tax laws had made it difficult for the company to be able to provide the necessary infrastructure, which will be enormous on this project; and, thirdly, that the coal export levy introduced by the Labor Government had eliminated the competitive margin that the company had over other countries and created uncertainties in the minds of potential customers. 
Those were the 3 main reasons, although he added that even if the market improved and the tax levy obstacles were removed there would still be grave difficulties because of the Government's equity rules. He went on to say that the company would look to the Commonwealth Government to be understanding and to use the flexibility that is provided in this area to ensure that if the prospects for development do firm up the guidelines will not become a hindrance to the development. I think that is the important part. I have had discussions with  Mr Madigan  and other members of his board and have explained that we could well understand the difficulties in the case of this project in getting sufficient Australian capital. Whilst I could not give him a firm reply because no definite request has been made to the Government for submission to the Foreign Investment Review Board, I pointed out that we would be very considerate and no doubt the project might be able to proceed with a very low level of Australian equity. It is quite wrong for this to be highlighted by some people as being a reason for this project not going ahead. 
As far as the existing tax laws are concerned, an Industries Assistance Commission report is being prepared for presentation to the Government. The draft report has been made public and we are waiting on the final report. I hope that changes in this area can make it more attractive to mining companies. As far as the coal export levy is concerned, I have already announced to the House that I have asked my Department to prepare a report so that it can be considered along with other Government expenditures and forms of revenue when we are considering these matters in about a month's time. As far as the equity guidelines are concerned, our policy is to see big projects such as this go ahead. If there is a need for flexibility, flexibility will be applied. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Grains Sub-group of the GATT Multilateral Trade Negotiations first met in May 1975 and has held five meetings to date. Its work is concerned with the reduction of barriers to world grain trade, the removal and/or relaxation of export measures which distort world trade, the problems of market instability and the need for special treatment for developing countries. 
During the course of discussions, the EEC has emphasised the stabilisation aspects of the Sub-group's objectives, suggesting that solutions to problems should be sought through an effective international commodity agreement containing maximum and minimum prices and stock-holding provisions. 
The United States has been pressing for liberalisation of government measures affecting trade. Its attitude is that liberalisation will ensure greater stability in the market and that a grains reserve system would provide adequate food security. The United States had made clear that it is strongly opposed to any proposals for an International Wheat Agreement of the traditional type. 
Australia's overall objective in the deliberations of the MTN Grains Sub-group (and also in the International Wheat Council) on the problems of world trade in grains has been to secure arrangements which would provide satisfactory assurances of adequate supplies at prices which are equitable to consumers and sufficiently remunerative to producers. In the MTN Grains Sub-group, Australia has consistently expressed the view that liberalisation and stabilisation are both important and interrelated. Australia has attempted to have both aspects dealt with in a proper perspective. 
In the light of experience with the operation of past wheat agreements and other commodity arrangements, Australia has, in particular, sought clarification of certain aspects of the EEC proposal, especially as it relates to minimum and maximum prices. At the same time, we have expressed the view that any reserve stock mechanism must be incorporated into an overall approach which provides effective safeguards to normal commercial trade. In addition, Australia has argued that negotiations will need to cover all forms of government intervention which tend to distort the market, including export credit facilities and food aid (particularly where this is used as a market development measure) as well as frontier measures such as export subsidies and import levies. 
Further progress in the MTN Grains Sub-group depends largely on the willingness of the United States and the EEC to reappraise their overall attitudes to the MTN and their objectives in an international grains agreement with a view to finding some common ground. In this regard, it is relevant and encouraging that the activities of the International Wheat Council have now been directed to further technical examination of the implications and practicability of various proposals which have already been made in the course of preparatory work or arising from past negotiations. 
In the Dairy Sub-group Australia has proposed three basic objectives for the current series of discussions which began in June 1975. Broadly, these are to seek improved and more secure access to export markets, the containment of export subsidies and credit selling by exporting countries and the improvement of international arrangements to help reduce recurrent price fluctuations in world markets. Australia has also suggested that the Sub-group explore the scope for the establishment of an International Dairy Council, for example, along the lines of the International Wheat Council, to assist in attaining these objectives. 
Australia has argued strongly within the present series of MTN discussions, as well as bilaterally, for increased liberalisation of import trade barriers and domestic dairy support and export regimes, especially by the EEC, Japan, Canada and the United States whose dairy policies collectively have been a major factor in the present crisis in the world dairy market. For example, Australia has requested that the United States review its quotas on imports of dairy products in terms of its commitments under GATT, relating to restrictions on imports of farm products. Within the MTN (and separately, in recent bilateral discussions), Japan has been urged to liberalise its import barriers to provide a more realistic level of access for imported dairy products. 
Particular attention has also been drawn to the disruptive effects on world dairy markets of the EEC's domestic dairy support arrangements, import policies and export subsidisation practices and to the relevance, in this regard, of the MTN objective of trade liberalisation. 
Australia will continue to pursue these objectives at future meetings of the MTN Dairy Sub-group. However, we must be prepared to recognise that progress will be difficult, due partly to the entrenched nature of domestic policies in many countries and partly to disagreement between the two main participants in the negotiations-the United States and the EC. The success of the negotiations will depend in large degree on the attitudes adopted by them. 
The MTN Meat Sub-group first met in June 1975 and has held three meetings to date. Australia's principal objectives in the negotiations in this forum is to bring about an overall reduction in the barriers to international trade in meat. 
In particular we are seeking to achieve: 
tariff reductions in line with any general tariff negotiating approach which might be adopted in nonagricultural products; 
reductions in non-tariff measures, such as variable import levies, quantitative restrictions and export subsidies; 
negotiation of less restrictive systems of safeguards in importing countries. 
At an early stage of the proceedings, Australia circulated a paper dealing with the causes and effects of instability in the world beef trade which illustrated that, as a result of the restrictive import policies of some of the world's major importers, Australia and other major exporting countries have been forced to bear a disproportionate share of the burden of adjustment to changes in world market circumstances. 
We have pointed out that the maintenance of artificially high domestic support and related import barriers, especially in the EEC and Japan, has prevented access to lower priced beef from traditional exporting countries, has had a negative effect on consumption and brought about a reduction in the level of world trade. 
To establish a proper basis of fact on which negotiations can be based, the first three meetings of the Meat Sub-group concentrated on an analysis of the specific characteristics, structure and problems of the world meat trade, including the direct and indirect impact of trade barriers and trade distorting practices. The Sub-group has also undertaken a country by country examination of trade barriers. 
During these discussions, Australia has suggested that stabilisation of the EEC market should not require such complete insulation from market forces as is provided by their present domestic and external support system, and has sought from the EEC advice of areas in which liberalisation of the present restrictive regime could be achieved. 
Similarly, the Australian delegation has sought from other major importers (notably the United States and Japan) advice on their willingness to reduce their existing barriers to imports of meat. 
Regrettably, there has so far been little evidence of any willingness on the pan of importing countries to enter into meaningful negotiations on these matters. 
Progress at future meetings of the MTN meat sub-group will depend on the willingness of major importing countries to identify the elements of their existing support and import mechanisms on which they are prepared to enter into negotiations aimed at liberalising world trade. 
The Tropical Products Group was established in the Multilateral Trade Negotiations to ensure that some special and priority treatment would be given to the needs of developing countries during the course of the negotiations. It was agreed by the Group early in 1975 that such treatment could - best be achieved by a procedure in which developing countries themselves would submit to developed countries requests for concessions on tropical products of trade interest. This was initially to be done in May 1975 or as soon as possible thereafter. The developed countries were to reciprocate by giving detailed consideration to the requests made and, where possible, make offers of concessions by 1 March 1976. 
Australia accordingly received requests for concessions from 27 developing countries on over 250 products and, together with most other developed countries, was able to table its offers in Geneva by the due date. Discussions are now proceeding on a confidential basis between participants concerning the offers. I expect to make a statement in relation to Australia's position with regard to the outcome of these negotiations after the discussions have been concluded. 
In answer to the honourable member's question I refer him to the Treasurer's reply to Question No. 526 on 26 May 1976  (Hansard  page 2525 ). 
Department of the Northern Territory: Expenditure (Question No. 542) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In February of this year I had discussions with the South Australian Minister for Mines and Energy, the Honourable Hugh Hudson, M.H.A., on the options available for the rational development of the Cooper Basin hydrocarbon resource. The Redcliffs petrochemical works is one of the available options. 
This is primarily a State matter and I understand the State Government has held discussions with the Cooper Basin producers and other interested parties concerning the reactivation of the proposal to build a petrochemical industry at Redcliffs. A decision to proceed with this or one of the other options cannot be long delayed and preliminary feasibility studies are currently being conducted. I believe the State Government is seeking, before the end of this year, a clear indication from the parties involved if there is any likelihood of the Redcliffs proposal proceeding. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Department 
1 ) 4 officers: Salaries $40,008 
Nil. 
Nil. 
The services of the Commonwealth Employment Service are used as required when recruiting staff from outside the Australian Public Service. No payment is made. 
B) Australian Atomic Energy Commission 
1 ) 2 officers: Salaries $ 1 9,936 
Nil. 
Nil. 
When requested, CES send registered persons for interviews for base grade vacancies. No payment is made. 
Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority 
1 ) 1 officer- No charge to the Commonwealth. 
Nil. 
Nil. 
CES is the first source of enquiry in recruiting wages employees. No payment is made. 
River Murray Commission (l)(2)(3)and(4) Nil. 
Joint Coal Board (l)(2)and(3) Nil. 
CES is used for junior staff vacancies. No payment is made. 
Pipline Authority 
Nil. 
(i) 3 private employment agencies to supply casual  short term staff, 
2 private employment agencies to assist in recruiting staff. 
(i) $922 to agencies in (2) (i) (ii) $3,247 to agencies in (2) (ii) 
Nil. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) On 8 January 1 976 at my office in Murwillumbah. 
As I have already publicly stated,  Mr Fancher  telephoned me on numerous occasions in the second half of 1975. 1 have no record of the calls so I cannot give specificdates. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Exports of Australian canned deciduous fruit to New Zealand for the last three financial years were recorded as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My attention has been drawn to press reports of the statement by the  Chairman  of the Australian Telecommunications Development Association to the effect that Australia has missed out on substantial orders for telecommunications equipment in Indonesia. 
The Australian Government has maintained as part of its external aid program an Australian Telecommunications Mission in Indonesia since 1968 to supervise the contractual and constructional aspects of a World Bank financed microwave telecommunications system. The Mission is also responsible for the  supply,  installation, testing and commissioning of telephone exchanges and the provision of advisory services to the Indonesian State Telecommunications Authority on the planning of Indonesia's international telecommunications network. The Mission's work is expected to be completed by mid 1978 by which time the value of the Australian contribution is expected to ha ve reached $ 1 3. 7m. 
It has been the policy of successive Australian Governments that aid should be provided by way of grants rather than by semi-commercial soft credits and tied loans. Aid is provided on the basis of meeting the needs of the recipient country. In some cases important commercial benefits have resulted for Australian industry as a result of our aid program but these benefits are not the principal purpose of granting aid. 
The Indonesian procurement authorities normally specify that tenders for the supply of equipment should contain an indication of financial arrangements proposed by potential suppliers. However, where a supplier country has established credit facilities with the Indonesian Ministry of Finance, reference to this facility will suffice. 
While it is strictly correct that financing through the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation (EFIC) cannot be guaranteed until a firm proposal has been examined, it is the usual practice for EFIC to provide an exporter with approval in principle to finance a particular proposal in advance of a tender being submitted thereby ensuring that the terms and conditions of finance can be included in the tender. 
To assist exporters to participate in the large scale procurement that is being undertaken by Indonesian Government instrumentalities, EFIC established in April 1975 an SI 8.5m credit line with the Indonesian Ministry of Finance under which credit terms of up to 10 years at internationally competitive interest rates were available. Although the Indonesian authorities indicated that the terms of this credit line were acceptable to them, they did not take advantage of it for procurement of Australian goods. This credit offer expired on 30 June 1 976. Notwithstanding expiry of EFIC's credit line offer, Australian capital goods exporters to Indonesia may still apply for concessional interest rate finance from the Corporation and any such applications will be considered on their merits on a case by case basis. 
Rate Exemptions in the A.C.T. (Question No. 747) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes- the Commission recently recorded its concern and alarm about the threat which water hyacinth presented to the River Murray system. 
The Commission has no charter for the control of weed infestation. Each Commissioner did however agree to make representation to his respective Government for action to implement control measures to prevent water hyacinth spreading further into the River Murray system. Such representations were made. It is understood that an Interdepartmental Committee has been set up by the New South Wales Department of Agriculture to report to the Minister of Agriculture on ways and means of dealing with the problem, following which discussions are likely to take place with the relevant Ministers from Victoria and South Australia and myself as Chairman of the Australian Water Resources Council to consider action to be taken to control the spread of this water weed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The development of proposals to correct the salinity and general pollution problem of the Murray River is primarily a matter for the States concerned. The River Murray Working Party and its steering Committee of Federal/State Ministers made certain recommendations in this regard and these matters are still being considered by the Governments concerned. 
I refer the honourable member to the answer, Parts (3) and (4), to his earlier Question No. 7, which appeared in Hansard on 17 March 1976, page 766. 
De-snagging of Murray River (Question No. 795) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) River remedial works including snagging in the fifteen mile section of the Murray upstream of Howlong are in progress. 
The River Murray Commission's Technical Committee in consultation with the appropriate State authorities is actively pursuing the matter of hydraulic capacity of the River Murray between Tocumwal and Echuca to carry increased regulated flows which may be required after the completion of the Dartmouth Dam Project. At present, an investigation is being carried out to provide detailed information for the preparation of designs for improvements which may be necessary to increase the carrying capacity of the river or to by-pass part of the flows via the Edward system. 
Yes- but it is anticipated that a high river will extend over a longer period, but generally will be within the carrying capacity of the river. 
The effect of the construction at Dartmouth Dam will be to increase the annual entitlement to South Australia by some 300 000 megalitres and that State's share of available water during periods of restriction to one-third. After meeting the South Australian entitlement, the additional water made available by Dartmouth will be shared equally between New South Wales and Victoria. The extent to which irrigation allocations are increased as a consequence of Dartmouth is a matter for the States of New South Wales and Victoria to decide having regard to their particular policies in regard to incidence and severity of restriction to supply during dry periods. 
In operation, Dartmouth Dam will provide a reservoir of storage which will only be called upon during dry periods. The storage at Hume will normally be drawn down before any releases are made from Dartmouth. In this way, greater efficiency in the use of water resources will be achieved. Once Dartmouth has filled, it could remain so for a number of years unless a serious drought occurs requiring releases of water. Dartmouth will have a storage capacity of 4m megalitres and under average conditions will take four years to fill from commencement of storage which it is hoped will take place in the second half of 1 977. 
Investigations are not at the stage where it can be determined what works, if any, will be necessary. Some of the alternatives under study involve reinstatement of the natural levee banks of the river to increase its carrying capacity, upgrading the existing regulators, improved drainage works and selected de-snagging. 
Slaughter of Cattle at Tongala (Question No. 796) 
On 18 May 1976 the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  asked me the following question without notice: 
Is the Minister for Overseas Trade aware of reports of alleged dumping of New Zealand timber on Australian domestic markets? Is he also aware of claims that this New Zealand timber is priced at approximately half the price of timber ex some Australian mills and that as a result many of these mills face closure? Will the Minister assure the House that the Government is giving urgent attention to the matter? 
The following additional information is provided in answer to the honourable member's question: 
In 1974-75 and the first nine months of 1975-76, New Zealand supplied only 6 per cent of Australia 's total imports of sawn timber. Statistics for the first nine months of 1 975-76 compared with the same period in 1974-75 show that the value of imports of sawn timber from all sources decreased by over 5 per cent. During the first nine months of 1975-76, imports of sawn timber from New Zealand are running some 12 per cent higher in quantity terms and some 9 per cent higher in value terms compared with 1974-75. New Zealand thus appears to be improving its share of the Australian market at the expense of other supplying countries rather than by taking sales away from Australian mills. 
Should there be evidence that importation of New Zealand sawn timber is taking place under conditions which constitute dumping and which causes or may cause injury to Australian producers the appropriate action would be submission of a case to the Bureau of Customs, Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have no evidence whatever that the major oil companies are involved in funding opposition to the use of alternative fuels. On the contrary the oil companies have shown great interest in extending their operations into the production of alternative fuels. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 
An examination of records has not revealed any such report to the Minister responsible for the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. 
See 2. 
None, nor are any contemplated. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) The Government's foreign investment guidelines in respect of uranium development relate to specific projects rather than to companies. In determining whether a particular project meets the minimum 75 per cent 
Australian equity required as provided for in the Government 's guidelines, the level of foreign equity in the company or companies participating in that project will be examined. Foreign portfolio investment in participating companies will be considered on the basis outlined in the statement of 28 May 1976 by the Treasurer and myself. In respect of the foreign investment aspects, proposals submitted to the Government for the development of uranium projects will be examined in the first instance by the Foreign Investment Review Board which is responsible for advising the Government on all foreign investment proposals. The Government will look to the Board to advise on whether the equity arrangements of each proposed project meet the Government's guidelines. It would not be appropriate for me to speculate on the application of the Government's guidelines to a particular case, until the Government had received the advice of the Board on the case. 
I am not particularly interested in whether the speech by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  marks a political comeback. If a comeback is his purpose all I can say is that he has a fair way to go down the track. What does interest me is whether he is able to make any worthwhile and constructive contribution to the task of restoring the economy. What is clear from the speech by the Leader of the Opposition is that he still does not understand why the people of Australia rejected him last year. What is clear is the failure of the Leader of the Opposition, and the Opposition generally, to understand what caused our present economic problems and what must be done to correct them. When the Leader of the Opposition says that the Budget puts big business first and people last all he is doing is displaying for all to see his utter ignorance of the nature of our economic problems and his ignorance of their cause. The irony is that no one in Australia should be better qualified to discuss Australia's economic difficulties because no one has contributed to them more than the Leader of the Opposition himself. 
The Labor Party still seems to believe that all the Government needs to do is to spend its way out of trouble and all will be well. That is the way the Whitlam Government tried to do things and the mess it created is still with us. The basis of the Government's approach to cleaning up the mess bequeathed to it by the Whitlam Government is restraint on government spending leading to control of inflation and encouragement of the private sector. It was excessive government spending that was largely the cause of our troubles. It will  be  strict control of spending that will largely be the cure. In countries that I have recently visited there is a very strong view, backed by performance, that success in bringing inflation under control lies to a very real degree in strict control of government spending. Control of government spending is widely acknowledged as a vital part of the attack on inflation. About the only people who do not accept this approach and who do not seem to understand it are the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues. What they are doing now is continuing their irresponsible approach to government spending. They did not understand what they were doing when they were in office and they do not seem to care whether they continue that approach which caused so much damage. 
A moment's thought should show anyone that no one likes bringing down a budget which reduces expenditure, but there are times when responsibility must take priority over the pursuit of popularity. This Government, unlike the 
Whitlam Government, is willing to take that approach and to accept the criticism such an approach must carry with it. The reaction overseas to the Budget has been favourable. I thought it might be interesting to quote what the finance writer of the  Manchester Guardian  had to say. He said: 
The Budget proposals put forward by the ruling coalition in Australia will be welcomed by those immediately concerned . . . the people and industry in Australia. 
The Budget proposals should also encourage those who nourish the hope that one day a British Government will be persuaded to think along similar lines. 
The heart of the Government's economic strategythis must be said over and over until everyone understands it- is control of inflation. When we set that objective for ourselves we are setting the right objective for the nation. Claims by the Leader of the Opposition that we are callously ignoring the needs of people when we adopt this strategy are just so much rubbish. Inflation is the cause of most of the problems which beset our people. Inflation is certainly the fundamental factor in the problems of the agricultural sector, compounded, of course, by marketing difficulties, drought and so on. Inflation is a major factor in the viability or otherwise of our mining industry. It will determine whether some of our major new projects get under way. Inflation is a most destructive influence on the competitiveness of our manufacturing industries. Inflation is driving far too many of them away from Australia and forcing them to set up operations in other countries which have not suffered from the kind of administration we saw in this country from 1972 to 1975. Inflation is one of the most damaging factors in destroying the capacity of governments to carry out worthwhile community programs. 
As inflation waters down the worth of money, it means that fewer houses can be built with the same amount of money, that there will be fewer roads, fewer hospitals, fewer teachers and that fewer services of all kinds can be provided. That is why the control of inflation must be the central plank in our economic strategy. I invite the Leader of the Opposition, every member of his party and every member of this House- in fact, every Australian- to consider very carefully the following proposition: Inflation is a fundamental cause of unemployment. Let me repeat that because it is something that is not widely understood but which should be understood. The fundamental cause of unemployment is inflation. What a tragedy it was that the Australian Labor Party did not understand this when it was in office. What a scandal it is that it still does not understand it. 
Inflation, by reducing profitability, by inhibiting new investment, by cutting competitiveness, by making labour too expensive, by destroying business confidence, by driving manufacturers away from Australia and by preventing the development of new projects destroys the capacity to provide jobs, to keep people in jobs and to create new jobs. There can be no permanent solution to the unemployment problem until inflation is brought under control. The Leader of the Opposition can resort to all the rhetoric and phony concern that he likes, but the fact will remain that until he comes to grips with inflation there is not the slightest hope that a real, lasting answer can be found to the tragic unemployment that grips this country. That is why the Government must be resolute in rejecting appeals to plunge into big spending programs to create temporary jobs. That would be an easy thing to do. None of us likes seeing people out of work with all the personal hardship, the tragedy and the humiliation that experience can bring with it. But the Government is determined that this great human problem must be solved on a lasting basis, not just on a temporary basis that lays the foundation for even worse trouble in the future. 
The other thing that the Opposition does not seem to understand is that we cannot have an economic revival unless we revive the private, productive sector of the economy. We cannot help the community generally unless the private sector produces the resources to enable us to do it. That is a simple fact which the members of the Labor Party never seem to understand. When the Whitiam Government set about its business bashing operations in 1973, it laid the foundations for much of the mess the present Government has to try to correct and which it will correct with the support of the Australian people. The Whitiam Government must take the credit- if that is the word- for much of the inflation and the consequent unemployment that is now being suffered. Our approach, in contrast to the attacks which Labor has made and still makes on the private sector, is to stimulate and to encourage the private sector so that it can provide jobs for the people. That is why we are giving incentives to the private sector- investment incentives and taxation incentives. If anyone wants to call these things handouts, let it be understood that they are handouts with a tremendous significance for the whole Australian community, and for the work force in particular, because they are the key to a strong, productive and expanding economy in the private sector of the community. 
I have spoken of the damaging effects of inflation. But there is another factor which is causing a great deal of damage to this nation. I refer to industrial trouble. Not only are strikes, stoppages and bans- often for political purposes- jeopardising our chances of economic recovery, but also they are damaging Australia's reputation as a reliable and stable trader. These actions are undermining confidence in Australia as a sound and worthwhile place for investment. One has only to talk to people in other countries, as I have recently, to discover their real concern about Australia's dependability and reliability. People who want to trade with us, buy things from us or invest in Australia all ask the same question: What are we doing about inflation and what are we doing about strikes? No doubt, what I am saying will be described as union bashing. It seems that any statement on this matter always is described that way no matter how factual or true the statement may be. Let us not forget that some union leaders and some of their followers- I emphasise the word 'some'- seem to have little hesitation in going in for Australian bashing when they feel Uke it. They suggest, apparently, that the political strike- the strike which aims to determine or influence national policy in defiance of the responsibilities of an elected government- is a legitimate weapon. They care nothing for the disruption, the hardship and the destruction which their action causes. They care nothing for the financial losses, the dishonoured contracts, the deliveries and the increased costs which they cause. They care nothing for the lowering of Australia 's reputation in the eyes of the world. They do not understand- or do theythe effects of their actions in jeopardising industrial expansion and in forcing Australian firms to look elsewhere for a more dependable and more economic environment in which to carry on their operations. They do not want to know about the jobs they destroy as a consequence of the damage they cause to industry and to trade. 
If this country is to recover from the economic illness it caught under the Labor Administration, the goodwil and the co-operation of all sections of the community will be needed. The job will be hard enough without the burden and complication of unnecessary and unwarranted stoppages and strikes, especially those motivated politically. If the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues have any concern for the good of this country and its people, they will make it thenbusiness to use whatever influence they can to persuade these militant people to change thenways. They have done enough damage already. 
They must understand that the nation as a whole cannot put up with it for too much longer. 
Before I turn to the area that is my particular responsibility- that of rnining and energy- I want to make some reference to the situation in the rural industries. Some of our rural industries are in a situation of extreme difficulty. Many people thought that the election of a LiberalNational Country Party Government would, in some miraculous way, almost overnight bring these difficulties to an end. But, of course, the fact is that these difficulties are very deeply entrenched and they are not easily amenable to solution. There is inflation- the most serious part of the problem facing agricultural industries. There are real marketing problems. A great deal of my recent visit overseas was devoted to explaining these marketing problems in Britain and Germany and to the director-general of GATT- the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade organisation- in Geneva, so that the impact on Australian producers of the actions in these countries and the actions of people in other countries might be better understood. 
I think that it would be unrealistic to expect solutions to these deep problems of the farm sector to be found in a Budget. Despite this, the Government has shown very clear evidence of its understandings of the rural situation and has responded to a very important degree. In fact, it is fair to say that throughout this year the Government and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  have responded as generously as they possibly could in the light of the very urgent needs to apply the most stringent controls on Government expenditure in the interests of bringing inflation under control. It should not be necessary for me to remind any farmer that the most valuable thing the Government can do for him is to control  costs.  The leaders of the farming organisations do realise this and that is why they have so strongly supported the Government's economic strategy. 
The Government this year has taken many steps to assist the agricultural industries- steps on the superphosphate bounty, the meat export levy, the investment allowance, rural reconstruction, dried vine fruits stabilisation, loans to canneries, protection against orange juice imports, the underwriting for skim milk powder, casein, butter and cheese, dairy adjustment, tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication, forestry, an increase in the wool floor price, drought relief assistance and unemployment benefits for farmers. In the Budget, we have gone further with help for beef producers and several other areas. 
The most significant Budget item for farmers is the income equalisation deposit scheme which I believe will prove very beneficial in the future. The Government is very much aware of the problems of the primary sector of the economy and will continue to do all it can responsibily do to help find answers to these problems. 
In the mining and energy areas there were a number of things that could be done in the Budget and which needed to be done to stimulate a revival and to repair the damage done by the Labor Party. During the last election campaign the coalition parties undertook to revive the petroleum and mining industries in this country. The Budget gave us our first real opportunity to begin that task. We believe the Budget measures will provide a significant boost to the mining sector and will provide a good basis on which the industry can attract the much needed finance required to develop it to its full potential. The new policies will encourage resources to move from the public sector, from overseas, and from within the Australian economy into our mining industry- one of the most efficient, low-cost users of resources. 
The mining industry is of vital importance to Australia and no government or community can afford to ignore its problems as the Whitlam Government did. The mining sector of the economy faces a particular problem- a combination of difficulties and risks of which the present Government is well aware and which the changes to the mining taxation law in 1974 completely failed to recognise. Mine products, like farm products, are primary products which are traded in world markets and which are often subject to widely fluctuating prices. Also the mining industries typically require extremely large investment. Furthermore, mines are often located in remote areas, making the capital requirement- that is, infrastructure- even larger than it would be otherwise and eliminating the advantage to the industry of the infrastructure which is commonly available in more settled areas. These 3 characteristics all add up to exceptionally high risk for mining enterprises. The Government's approach to these enterprises must recognise that risk. 
Most of our international competitors treat their rnining industries in a much more generous manner than Australia has done in recent years.  (Extension of time granted).  Overseas mining companies live under tax regimes which grant generous depletion allowances, tax-free holidays and in many cases, immediate write-off of capital expenditure. If Australian companies are to be competitive in international raw materials markets and capable of attracting sufficient amounts of international risk capital, they must not be subject to respressive tax legislation which places them under an impossible handicap. 
The new measures in this Budget relating to the deductibility of expenditure on petroleum exploration and development will end the previously existing situation in which the petroleum industry was actually in a worse position from a taxation point of view than general mining. These measures will in fact place the petroleum industry in a more favourable position- a position which it ought to occupy in view of Australia's urgent need to revitalise the search for petroleum. These provisions should be of considerable assistance in getting the North West Shelf project and new petroleum exploration under way. 
Further evidence of the Government's determination to revitalise the petroleum exploration industry can be found in the decision to remove the $2 a barrel excise on new oil. The Government considers it essential that every encouragement be given to the exploration companies. It therefore believes that the immediate removal of the $2 a barrel excise duty on new oil is completely justified. By 1985, if no additional discoveries of indigenous crude oil are made, the volume of petroleum that will have to be imported is estimated to be 200 million barrels at a cost of at least $2,000m, representing about 62 per cent of our petroleum requirements compared with 3 1 per cent in 1975. Thus, without additional oil discoveries, we will become increasingly dependent upon overseas suppliers and will cease to enjoy the degree of selfsufficiency that we now have. 
As also mentioned in the Budget Speech, the Government intends to remove the coal export levy, in this case over a period of 3 years. The Government has always regarded the coal export levy as an inappropriate form of taxation. Marginal fields pay the same rate of duty as economically more profitable fields and, in some cases pay even higher duty. The imposition of the coal export levy has had undesirable effects not only on existing producers, but more unfortunately it has acted as a deterrent to potential developments. Planned new coal projects which would be affected by the levy could involve the employment of up to 4 500 men, peaking to 10 000 during the 5 year construction period, as well as the new capital expenditure of up to $2,000m over the 5 year period and an increase in our export earnings of up to $ 1,000m per annum. 
For the mining industry as a whole, the most significant of the new measures are those relating to the rapid write-off of capital expenditure. As the law stood before the Budget, a mining company was permitted to write off only 4 per cent of its capital expenditure each year on a reducing basis- a situation which resulted in only half of the initial capital outlay of a project being deductible in the first 15 years of the project's life. Under the new provisions announced in the Budget, companies are permitted to write off 20 per cent of their capital expenditure each year on a reducing basis. This means they will be able to write off an aggregate of about 80 per cent of the capital outlay in the first 7 years of a project's life. 
In addition, the investment allowance for plant and equipment continues to operate so that a mining company investing in 1976-77, for example, would be able to claim as a tax deduction, in a typical case, an additional 20 per cent to 25 per cent of the total mine investment in that year. The investment allowance is, of course, designed to assist all industries, not just the mining industry. 
All of this adds up to a substantial measure of assistance in meeting the cash-flow problems of new mining ventures. In addition to the rapid write-off there will be cash-flow benefits from the decision to permit, at the taxpayers' option, capital expenditure on transport facilities to be written off over 10 years on a straight line basis as an alternative to the existing period of 20 years. A 10-year period of write-off operated prior to 1974. In addition, the definition of allowable capital expenditure for which deductions may be claimed has been broadened to include port development expenditure. This had never applied previously. In order to develop and to prosper as it should the mining industry needs a reasonably secure tax regime on which it can rely in the medium to long term, as it has been able to do for the last 50 years. The purpose of tax incentives is to assist in the marshalling of capital so that companies can undertake effective discovery and development of Australia's mineral and petroleum resources. The Government considers that the tax regime which operates in the mining industry must provide an appropriate set of ground rules for the long term. The income tax provisions set out in the Budget will go a long way towards meeting that need. 
In short, the Government, through the various taxation measures introduced in this Budget, has taken a major step towards getting mining and exploration industries moving once more. No doubt many people in various sections of industry and in the community would like to see more being done for them in this Budget. But I repeat what I said at the beginning of my speech: The most important task of the Government is to get inflation under control. The most valuable thing this Government can do for the rnining industry, farmers, manufacturers, wage earners, pensioners, small businessmen or anyone else is to bring inflation under control. That is what the whole economic question is about This Budget points the nation towards the answer to that question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A report on UNCTAD IV has been prepared by the UNCTAD Secretariat in liaison with delegations to the Conference. It is not the Government's intention to publish a separate Australian delegation report on the Conference. 
A limited number of advance copies of the UNCTAD report have been received and I have arranged for a copy to be placed in the Parliamentary Library, for the information of members. 
Relations with South Africa (Question No. 922) 
There is good reason for everybody to be very concerned about the increasing industrial trouble on our waterfront. It is having a very serious effect on Australia's reputation as a reliable and dependable supplier of goods and raw materials. It is also having quite an effect on the import of goods for Australian industry. Many industries have had to stand down or dismiss employees because they have been unable to get goods off the waterfront. I suppose the most difficult area is the container area, where I am told there is a delay of something like 6 weeks in the delivery of containers. That has had a consequent effect on the filling of containers for export. At the moment something like 60 000 tonnes of goods in containers are held up on wharves around Australia. Surely the inflation situation and the need for economic recovery are important enough without this unnecessary industrial trouble on the wharves. But what is happening seems to be endemic. 
There are so many areas where unions are taking it upon themselves to make decisions- many of them nothing more than political decisions- by placing limitations and bans or by striking, and thus preventing Australia from being a continuing exporter of goods. For instance, in relation to the export of livestock, numerous bans have been applied in different States. Some of them have been lifted but there is still a ban in Victoria which is preventing exporters from being able to take orders overseas. Surely if there has to be permission to export livestock it ought to be granted for the drought stricken areas such as Victoria. The ban earlier this year by the storemen and packers delayed the sale of almost a quarter of a million bales of wool. That led to a delay in payments to wool producers, who are certainly not enjoying very high incomes at the moment. The action of the Australian Workers Union on the handling of wheat in New South Wales during May and June reduced the capacity to export wheat by 200 000 tonnes. That had quite an effect on some of our overseas customers who were awaiting deliveries. I refer also to the action of the maritime unions in Western Australia. As a result of that there have been delays in the export of iron ore. In June about 1 500 men had to be stood down at Mount Newman while 16 bulk ore carriers were held up. There has been a ban by the Australian Council of Trade Unions on trade with South Africa. For one month no trade was allowed. Who was affected? It was Australian industry hoping to get export orders which was affected. There is a ban on Indonesian vessels. Indonesia is a country with which we are hoping to build up trade. Yet all this does is to impede and stifle continuing expansion and development. 
Today we heard the most ludicrous of all possible decisions made by the ACTU, namely, to place a ban on trade between Australia and New Zealand in an effort to influence policy in New Zealand, as the New Zealand Government has become so frustrated and so desperate because of the continuing political strikes in that country that it is threatening to bring down legislation to counter political strikes. So the ACTU is now considering blocking trade between our 2 countries. That will involve $700m worth of trade and $450m of it is Australian trade. The balance of trade is in our favour. Yet the ACTU wants to take action which will have a greater detrimental effect on Australia than on New Zealand. At a time when we have high unemployment, as an honourable member interjects, all that this can do is to aggravate the situation and make it very much worse. The time is approaching when the Australian public will have to think very seriously about how much more it is going to take of the trade unions trying to run this country instead of its being run by the democratically elected government. 
We have had the pleasure or otherwise of listening to a lot of hogwash and utter garbage from the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating). His  speech was really a confession of the Australian Labor Party's failure in the management of the natural resources of this country. For him to try to excuse the Labor Government in which he was a Minister and say that a new Labor Government would allow the export of gas or would eliminate the export levy on coal is so cynical. One would not think he would have the audacity to say these sorts of things in the House. The Whitlam Labor Government completely destroyed confidence in the mining industry of this country. Its ideological approach in wanting to take over control of the mining industry brought about nil development in the industry during 3 years when it had a golden opportunity to attract capital and to develop new projects in this country. There was $8,000m worth of projects awaiting decisions by the Labor Government to proceed. Not one of those projects got off the ground. Some were deferred; some were cancelled. It will probably be years before they get off the ground. 
When I was overseas recently I talked with various representatives of the mining houses in the United Kingdom and Germany. I was horrified to hear what they thought of Australia and to discover the reputation that we have amongst those people after 3 years of maladministration by the Whitlam Government. Nowhere did this maladministration make a bigger impact than in the mining industry. Of course, one does not have to go overseas to be depressed by the actions of the Whitlam Government. Under Labor confidence was completely abandoned in Australia. The stock exchange absolutely collapsed. Fortunately we have seen some recovery but it takes time. The stock exchange is reflecting an improvement in the interests of the mining industry. The present Government already has a fairly impressive record in the administration of the natural resources of this country in the course of this year. I will mention many of its achievements. 
The honourable member for Blaxland said that the actions the present Government is taking are bad for Australia. He should equate our actions with the policies of the Labor Government, which did absolutely nothing for Australia. We do not have much room to move. We only have to get one or two projects off the ground and our performance will be better than the whole performance of the Labor Government in 3 years. The Labor Government discouraged people from coming to Australia to sign further contracts for iron ore and coal. The only contracts it did not discourage were those that it desperately needed at the time. It forced buyers to go to other potential suppliers around the world and to invest in those countries- countries such as Brazil. Enormous Japanese investment has taken place in Brazil in the last 3 years as a result of the frustration and concern that developed in dealing with Australia. Of course, nobody has been more responsible for that than the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  who wanted to be the big tzar himself and determine what the price should be, who could develop and what projects could go ahead. 
That is not the way this Government does things. We believe that private enterprise can do the job. We want to encourage people to come to Australia. We want to encourage foreign investors to come and join in partnership arrangements with Australian companies. Foreign capital will meet some of our capital requirements. With a limited population of 13 million, we do not have enough capital of our own. With the enormous development potential we have in this country, there just is not enough ready capital for all the projects, so if we can get overseas capital to help us, well and good. 
What the honourable member is saying now is completely different from what he was saying last year and during the 3 years of Labor administration. The Labor Party has learnt its lesson but, my word, what a price it had to pay. Worse still, what a price Australia had to pay for the policies of the Labor Government. 
The honourable member says that the companies did well. Listen to that claptrap. That is all honourable members opposite can think of. If somebody makes profits, to them it is bad. Companies made less profits and many of them became bankrupt as a result of the performance of the previous Government, which caused inflation and which caused costs to go up. Inflation is one of the things discouraging investment in this country. Let me come back to the matter of public importance. I criticise the honourable member for Blaxland for making a confession about the Labor Party's approach, but there is also an admission in the wording of the matter of public importance. It refers to the continuing mismanagement of the Government. So the honourable member for Blaxland in the words of his own matter of public importance admits mismanagement by the Labor Government. We do not admit there is any mismanagement now, but we agree with him that there was mismanagement under the Labor Government. He knows himself that there was mismanagement because the policies he brought forward today represent changes in the policies of the previous Government. How ludicrous. It is unbelievable that he should think that by raising this matter of public importance he can score political points. Everyone can see through him. 
He talked about coal contracts. He said that the new contracts that have been signed are for $3 to $5 a tonne less than what other countries are getting. I like that, because the new contracts that have been signed preserve the relativity of the contracts that were signed last year. If they are for $3 to $5 a tonne less than what other countries are getting this year, the contracts to which the Labor Party agreed last year were for $3 to $5 a tonne less than what other countries were getting last year. We all know of the performance of the Labor Government. When it came to power it decided that it was going to negotiate new contracts in Japan, but because there was a political crisis in Australia and it had to be resolved in 24 hours it did not matter what happened to the coal industry. The Government agreed to a price which was lower than what some companies had already got the Japanese to agree to. This is what happened when the Labor Party came to power and started to interfere with pricing arrangements. 
The coal industry provides a good example of the Government's attitude and approach. Under the Labor Government there was continual interference and continual red tape associated with approvals for the export of coal to the point that shipments were held up until each shipment had been approved by the Minister for Minerals and Energy. I have seen to it that my Department does not become unnecessarily involved in red tape in the administration of exports of minerals. Certainly we want to be notified and we want to know about the contracts that are being signed; but individual approval for each shipment is just stupid. We have tried to remove my Department as much as possible from bureaucratic intereference. This has been very much appreciated by the mining industry. We have kept a monitoring role so that we know what is going on. We have a responsibility as the national Government to see that the national interest is preserved. If companies are concerned about the way in which negotiations are taking place, they will inform the Government. To say that there is a  laissez-faire  attitude is not correct, because I watch- and I am advised by my Departmentthe various contracts that are being signed. 
In the case of salt I had to step in and exercise export control. After a prolonged period of trying to get satisfactory negotiations, and after requests from certain members of the industry and the Western Australian Government that export approval be withheld unless a certain price was agreed upon, approval was not given. I say to the honourable member for Blaxland: Do not for one minute say that the Government is not interested or will not intervene. It has intervened. It caused a great deal of concern in the Soda Association of Japan when the Government did step in and intervene. 
For a period of 3 years there were 3 enormous projects in the coal industry in the Bowen district of Queensland which never got off the ground. They could not get government approval. Within 3 months of taking office, this Government resolved the equity situation so that Hail Creek had 60 per cent Australian participation and Nebo and Norwich Park 55 per cent each. Back in 1973 we were hoping that Hail Creek would get off the ground, but the industry could never get any guidance or lead. Those projects were running into hundreds of millions of dollars then; now they will be approaching $ 1,000m because of the increases in costs over the 3-year period when nothing was done. Those projects should be under way now. They should not have been delayed for such an enormous period of time. 
In relation to coal, the Government has reduced the levy and has said that it will be eliminated over a period of 3 years. The new tax provisions brought down in this Budget will be of enormous importance to developments such as the new coal mines that are to be opened up in New South Wales and central Queensland. The tax provisions will give the mines the capacity to get some cash flow to repay their loan commitments within the time over which they have borrowed. But what happened under the previous 
Government? All the incentives and tax concessions were eliminated and companies were put on a straight line 4 per cent depreciation, which meant that it took 15 years to recover 50 per cent of capital outlay. At today's rates of 7 to 10 years, how can money be borrowed when only 50 per cent of it can be recovered over a period of 1 5 years? It was hopeless to expect coal mines, iron ore mines or any other mines to get off the ground with the sort of tax provisions brought in by the Labor Government. So at the first opportunity this Government brought these concessions forward in the Budget. 
The area which will be the greatest legacy of the Labor Party and for which it will pay a high price for years to come, perhaps for a decade, is its attitude to oil exploration in this country. Labor brought it to a halt. At a time when companies were enthusiastic to try to marshal capital and know-how and to go looking for oil and gas, both on-shore and off-shore, they were discouraged and their enthusiasm dried up. They were told that they were nothing more than a mob of hill-billies and mugs. They were told that the Government could undertake this itself, and various concessions and incentives were taken away from them. They could not obtain any clear guidance on policy, on whether they could export. They were given little incentive to have prices altered so that exploration could take place. They did not know what would be the situation if they made discoveries. Those problems have been cleared up during the period this Government has been in office. It has referred to the Industries Assistance Commission the question of the domestic pricing of oil, which is the proper way of dealing with the matter, rather than making an arbitrary decision as the Labor Government did. A fat lot of good that price increase was because Labor put a duty of $2 a barrel on oil and brought it practically back to zero. I have made a declaration that any oil discovered will be sold at world parity price and that there will be no $2 levy. That is terribly important if people are going to invest the enormous amounts of risk capital that are necessary. 
The honourable member for Blaxland made a lot of noise about off-shore deposits and the Seas and Submerged Lands Act and said that the Government is handing over authority to the States. There is a designated authority written into the Act at the moment which allows the States to give permits with the Federal Government's approval. The refinements of the consequences of the High Court decision are being examined by the Attorneys-General of Australia, and no doubt that Act will be looked at in that respect Export permits are being given and farm-ins are being allowed. The Government is encouraging investment in exploration because it knows that unless more oil is found in this country we are going to be dependent upon overseas suppliers and will have to pay an enormous amount of our foreign exchange in the future to meet our requirements. 
I think the Prime Minister amply covered the issue of speculation about the Australian dollar in the reply he gave to the House. In my speech last night there was certainly no implication or suggestion regarding devaluation. The article to which the honourable member referred was a piece of mischievous reporting to try to make trouble when it was completely unnecessary. I gave an accurate description of our trading position. I outlined the need for an all out attack on inflation because of the impact it was having on our export industries. What is inexcusable is the fact that the reporter who wrote the article in question, the only one writing in today's Press to interpret my remarks the way he did, actually contacted my office to see whether his interpretation was correct. He was told that if he used that interpretation it would be wrong. Yet irrespective of that he went ahead and wrote the story, which adds to speculation and does no good to a situation where people are making these noises. I thought it was an irresponsible act by the newspaper to print something which was not true. 
I wish to associate the National Country Party with the motion of condolence for the late Chairman Mao Tse-tung moved by the Prime Minister. Chairman Mao was one of the historic figures of the twentieth century. Born of humble origin, he rose to become leader of 800 million people. In this process, he welded the difficult factions in China into a cohesive and united nation. His achievement was remarkable by any standard and in paying our respect to his memory, we also wish to express our sympathy to the Chinese Government and people at the loss of their outstanding leader. The fact that we do not share the same political or philosophical views does not mean that we do not understand the sense of loss which the Chinese people must feel or that we do not recognise and acknowledge the tremendous influence which Chairman Mao had on his nation and his place in history. 
-There has been no request from the State Government of New South Wales for the Commonwealth to consider an extension of the flood mitigation program in that State. As the honourable member would be aware, there have been 2 flood mitigation proposals, extending over a period of 12 years, to which the Commonwealth Government has contributed some $17m. The second stage of this ran out as at 30 June of this year. The local government authorities did propose an extension of that program for a further period. I met a deputation of the councils in June of this year. It wanted to find out what the Commonwealth's reaction would be. I pointed out to that deputation that there was only one means of handling this matter, and that was, as has been done on previous occasions, for the councils to make their submission to the State Government, and that it was the State Government's responsibility to make an application to the Commonwealth. Until June of this year there had been no approach by the State Government for any extension of the scheme. I said that, if the councils were concerned, they ought to see the State Government immediately to find out whether it was going to put a submission to the Commonwealth Government for consideration in preparing the Budget. I am led to believe that a deputation did go to Sydney and make a request that there be an extension of the present 2:2:1 arrangements with the Commonwealth, State and local government authorities. But of course nothing was forthcoming so there was nothing to consider when preparing the Budget for this year. 
We are now running into the third year in which the European Economic Community has had a total ban on the importation of meat. This has had a very serious effect on Australia's potential for export to that part of the world. When it is realised that in 1973 Australia exported about $90m worth of meat to that market the quite serious consequences will be understood. I lost no opportunity to discuss this matter with people in Britain and Germany as well as with the Director-General of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. I told them of our concern and that Australia considered the ban to be a complete breach of international trading rules, when one country could completely close the door to a traditional supplier for a sustained period in order to look after its own ends, without considering the consequences to others. Certainly Australia has felt the severe consequences of that action, and at the same time, of course, Japan also banned imports of Australian meat. We have been able to get Japan to reopen the door, and we hope that the European Economic Community will consider reopening its door in the near future. However, I am not going to be over optimistic about the situation. I think it will take a lot of persuasion and sustained effort on the part of the Government to get those countries to reverse their ways but we will not cease in that endeavour. Every opportunity will be used by Australian Ministers to get through to the people of the EEC the message that we do not appreciate this sort of trading practice. I have told the Director-General of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade that we expect GATT to protest more to the EEC. If that organisation does not become actively involved then countries around the world can regard the subsidisation of products, embargoes and dumping as accepted or condoned international trade practices, and that would only worsen the international situation. 
I am very hesitant about talking optimistically about the future. This gruelling experience for the cattle industry has been going on for 3 years. One would have thought that the situation would have picked up by now. Our slaughter figures for the 12 months to 30 June have established records in regard to both cattle and calves. We have slaughtered this year 10.1 million head, compared with 8.3 million head the previous year. Our export figures are at an all time high of 549 000 tons, compared with 423 000 tons the previous year, representing an increase in exports of almost 33 per cent. Apart from getting into the Japanese market and securing an extension of our quotas to the United States, we have made a sale to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Also we are making very good penetration into a multitude of small markets around the world. While those markets may be small individually, collectively they add up to quite a considerable amount of trade and offer potential for a very big market in the future. For instance, within a week or two a Rumanian delegation will be coming here to look at the prospects of buying meat from Australia. Other east European countries are also showing real interest. We have sold 500 tons of meat to South Korea for the first time, and that market shows good prospects. We have sold 1 500 to 2000 tons of meat to Israel, with the prospect of selling between 10 000 and 15 000 tons a year. We have just made a sale of 1 100 tons to Nigeria, with the possibility of further sales. Ghana is also showing an interest in importing beef from Australia. Iran, which I visited recently, is becoming a very large buyer of sheep meats and is also becoming a potential market for beef. The Jordanian Army has recently bought 3500 tons of lamb. Egypt is now starting to buy beef, to the extent of 2000 tons this year. Libya is another country - 
No negotiations have commenced or proceeded in this area. We have strengthened our political relationships with the European Economic Community and if it seems appropriate to have a unilateral trading arrangement with the EEC we will proceed to have one; but at the moment we have not seen the advantage to Australia in such an arrangement. 
For the information of honourable members I present the following agreements: The International Cocoa Agreement 1975; the International Coffee Agreement 1976; the Fifth International Tin Agreement; and an agreement to establish the Intergovernmental Council of Copper Exporting Countries. I seek leave to make a statement relating to those agreements. 
I did see a Press report in today's  Sydney Morning Herald  which mentioned that the Meridian Livestock Company Pty Ltd had signed a contract, I think for 75 000 tonnes of sheep meat over the next 5 years. That is very pleasing. I am aware that other companies also have made deals with Middle East countries, including Iran, relating specifically to sheep meat. Those people are accustomed to eating sheep meat and with their living standards improving and with the availability of foreign exchange, they have the potential to go out and buy. They are looking to countries such as Australia as principal suppliers. The opportunities seem to be quite enormous for Australia to get access to those markets to sell both live sheep and sheep meats. However, if contracts are signed for live sheep, I hope we will not have unnecessary interference with the export of that type of meat as we have had in the past from some unions. It has jeopardised our reputation as being a reliable supplier. I think it is unfortunate if we cannot sell both livestock and meat in that market, which obviously is an enormous one. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the last 6 months I have received 3 complaints of unfair imports of cheese from New Zealand or other countries. The parties concerned have been invited to substantiate their allegations by providing evidence to the Department of Overseas Trade. One of the parties is currently having discussions with the Department. 
As Minister for Overseas Trade I have responsibility for the conduct of Australia's trade relations with other countries and my Department may, as appropriate, make representations to other Governments where it is considered that unfair trade has taken place. 
New Zealand authorities have been made aware of the problems facing the Australian industry, that imports of cheddar cheese from New Zealand cannot be increased beyond the present quota level and of the Australian Government's concern that imports from New Zealand should be conducted under conditions of fair trade. I will again bring this matter to the attention of New Zealand Ministers at the forthcoming Ministerial Talks. 
Should there be evidence that importation of New Zealand cheese or other products is taking place under conditions which constitute dumping and which cause or may cause material injury to Australian producers, the appropriate action would be to submit a case to the Bureau of Customs, Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. 
In the interests of keeping peace in this House, I am quite pleased to answer the question. The article to which the honourable member has referred suggested that there will be an increase of $ 100m. 
-That is right, $100m will be given to local government authorities this year for roads. If the honourable member had done his homework properly he would have found that something like $64m is to be given in the first half of this year and $30m-odd is to be given in the second half of this year. If he adds those amounts together he will find that they come to about $ 100m. 
I saw an announcement a couple of days ago and was informed that the Peko-Wallsend group received a contract with the Iranian Atomic Energy Commission to search for uranium in Iran. I think it is a great tribute that we do have the expertise among our mining companies in Australia to meet international competition for these sorts of contracts. As to the details, I believe that they are confidential. It is interesting to note that a Nomad aircraft will be used to do most of the aerial survey work, which will be a good opportunity to demonstrate the versatility of this Australian-manufactured plane. It is a matter of considerable interest that, whether or not Australia goes ahead with the development of uranium, there are countries around the world which are keen to look for uranium and possibly will find it and develop it. Whether or not Australia goes ahead, those countries certainly will proceed. There could be circumstances in which Australian companies actually were invited to go and help in the development of uranium in those countries. Returning to the honourable member's initial question, I am very pleased that Australian companies can win such contracts and make a contribution to the development of other countries around the world. 
The Government is aware of the low price of sugar. Last Friday the international price of sugar on the London market hit stg1 12 a ton, which is the lowest price since 1973 and which is about one-fifth of the price during the boom period of 1 974. So there is some reason for concern in the sugar industry about the prevailing price. Fortunately the sugar industry in recent years has been negotiating a number of long term contracts which contain pricing provisions. That gives a degree of stability to the price that producers will obtain for their exports of sugar. But 70 per cent of our sugar production is solo overseas and much of it still goes on to the free world market. The Government is very keen to promote and to sponsor commodity agreements. Australia has an outstanding record as far as sugar is concerned. I was involved with the 1968 sugar agreement which led to stability in the industry, following a period of about 5 or 6 years of depressed prices. However, that agreement is not operative at the moment. Moves now are being made to revive that agreement. The International Sugar Council will be holding meetings either next month or in November, and my Department will be taking part in those meetings. The whole idea is to work up an agenda for an international conference to take place in April or May of next year with the prospect of reviving an international agreement. I believe that in view of the low world price for sugar there should be a good deal of support for that by other sugar producing countries. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is designed to give legislative effect to the Government's decision to establish a new basis for funding the export finance facility operated by the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation. The new arrangements which I announced in July, transfer to the trading banks the responsibility of providing funds for the facility. They have the effect of reducing calls on the Budget whilst at the same time enhancing the opportunities for Australian exporters to win additional business. The Government believes that these new arrangements will provide a sound basis for co-operation between the banks and the Government in supporting Australian capital goods exporters. They are consistent with our intention of ensuring that initiative and responsibility are in appropriate cases, restored to the private sector. 
Honourable members will recall that the export finance facility was established in EFIC in February 1975 to facilitate the provision of export finance on internationally competitive terms in support of medium and long term credit sales of Australian machinery and capital equipment. The facility was designed to supplement the medium and long-term credit facilities available to exporters through the Australian banking system and funds were provided from the Budget by way of long term loans to EFIC at a concessional rate of interest of  VA  per cent. These funds were then blended with finance provided by the banks, usually on a 50/50 basis to produce a finance package which is broadly comparable with those available from overseas competitor countries. This arrangement worked quite satisfactorily and enabled EFIC to provide finance in support of a number of important export tenders amounting to some $30m over the last 12 months. But the need for the Government to restrain calls on the Budget limited the volume of funds that could be made available to EFIC. This in turn limited the extent of EFIC 's support for this category of business. 
The Government's overriding objective is to attack inflation by substantially reducing the rate of growth of government spending. At the same time we seek to do what we can to assist Australian exporters to maintain and indeed expand their overseas trade. It was in this context that the Government took up with the banks the possibility of their broadening their involvement in the export finance facility. Our talks with the banks were both positive and constructive. They resulted in their agreement to provide up to $100m in support of new export finance business undertaken by EFIC in addition to financing some $50m of existing EFIC commitments. These arrangements will substantially increase the amount of funds available to EFIC for use in supporting capital goods export tenders. Indeed since their implementation EFIC has been able to offer financial support in respect of tender bids amounting to some $120m. Under the new arrangements the banks will provide loan funds to EFIC at commercial rates of interest applicable to this category of business. The Government, for its part, will provide an interest rate subsidy which will enable EFIC to on-lend these funds on internationally competitive terms. The savings in the 1976-77 Budget are estimated to be some $20m. 
This expansion of EFIC's finance facility will be welcomed by exporters. However, we can not lose sight of the fact that the success of our exporters in this field will depend very much on basic competitiveness as regards price, quality and delivery. The facility will certainly enable our exporters to match the credit terms being offered by their competitors, but at the end of the day whether or not they win the business will depend on the basic competitive factors to which I have referred. At the root of our relative competitive position is the question of costs. In this connection Australia's record of inflation in the last few years has meant that we have lost ground severely; hence the Government's clearly expressed and overriding objective to contain inflation. There are signs that we are already meeting with success in this but we have some way to go yet and a backlog of lost competitiveness which must be made up. 
As a consequence of the change in the funding arrangements for EFIC, the Bill also proposes amendments to the national interest provisions of the EFIC Act. Previously in high risk transactions referred by EFIC for consideration in the national interest the Government made available the funds required to finance the transactions. It is now intended that EFIC should provide the finance involved from loan moneys advanced by the banking system. The Government's role will be limited to underwriting the contingent liabilities involved. This measure will provide the same benefits to exporters, but will have the effect oflimiting the Government's financial commitment to that of guarantor rather than primary lender. Opportunity has also been taken to make a number of housekeeping amendments to the Act mainly in regard to superannuation and terms and conditions of employment of officers of the Corporation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (9) The study alluded to in the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation's fifth annual report was discontinued in May 1975. With the approval of the Government, a study embracing substantially the same subjects was commenced in December 1975 and has recently been completed. It was conducted by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation in conjunction with a French consultant, Sofregaz, a major international natural gas organisation of high repute. 
I am informed that a great volume of valuable technical information has been collected and is being examined by the Pipeline Authority's engineers. I hope it will be practicable to make a summary of the Study's major findings available for public consideration and debate. 
Australian Council on Hospital Standards (Question No. 1034) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I received no gifts whilst in the United Kingdom. 
Letters of Authority Issued by Australian Embassy in South Africa: Rhodesians (Question No. 1326) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I last visited the United Kingdom from 11 to 17 August of this year. The purpose of my visit was to discuss, with the Secretary of State for Trade,  Mr Edward  Dell, a number of matters of concern to Australia, but in particular the ways in which the EEC applies its common agricultural policy to the sometimes serious detriment of producers in other countries including, to a significant degree, Australian beef, dairy products and fruit producers. 
In addition, I undertook a number of official public engagements. My visit to Britain also allowed me to inform myself of the latest developments in the fields of offshore gas production and uranium enrichment and nuclear fuel processing. 
I visited Scotland from the evening of Friday 13 August to the morning of Monday 16 August for a rest weekend. 
No.  Mr Edmund  Vestey, who is a personal friend of mine, provided transport for journeys from Norwich to Lochinver and Lochinver to Windscale. 
No. 
I did not spend any time with Lord Vestey. I spent a weekend at Lochinver as the guest of  Mr Edmund  Vestey. 
None. 
My journeys in the United Kingdom were as follows: 
Having listened to the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  all one can say is that their contribution has been a performance. It has been a sham. It is phoney and hollow for honourable members opposite, who in government virtually ruined the Australian economy, to come forward and criticise this Government and to vilify the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for the way in which they are trying to get this country back onto the rails again. It is nothing more than wicked deception for them to talk today in this way. They talk glibly of cutting taxes and spending more money, as though it does not matter at all. It is a virtual confidence trick which they are trying to play once again on the Australian people. The Opposition  even after its  disastrous experience in office, still does not understand how the economy works. When in office Labor tried to offset its gross mismanagement by stimulating the economy with massive spending. This generated an unprecedented Budget deficit, giving us one of the highest rates of inflation in the world. 
I find it incomprehensible that Labor is still pushing forward the same policies, irrespective of the damage it did with them. Fundamentally, what the Opposition is saying to us now is this: Why don't you move faster in trying to clean up the mess we left behind '. And what a mess it was. When the Whitiam Government was elected in December 1972 there were 139,000 people out of work. While the Whitlam Government was in office the number of unemployed rose by a further 192,000 people. So by the time the Labor Administration was dismissed by the Australian people, 328 000 people were out of work and the unemployment level had risen from 2.4 per cent to 5.6 per cent. Under the present Government the level has risen by a further 0.2 per cent. While we have been in office, battling to undo the damage caused by Labor's policies and to get the economy headed in the right direction again, the number of people out of work- not the rate of unemployment but the actual number of people out of work- has risen by 7.8 per cent, and that takes into account the large number of school leavers who are registered at present. While Labor was in office the number of people out of work rose not by 7.8 per cent but by 140 per cent. So let us be clear where the problem of employment came from in the first place. 
The only criticism that can reasonably be levelled at the present Government is that so far it has been unable to clean up the mess left behind by the Whitlam Administration. The answer to that criticism is that the Government is not as omnipotent nor the economy as flexible as Labor thinks. In this regard too I find it pathetic that the present Opposition has failed to learn in any way from its mistakes in office. The economic mess left by Labor has to be cleaned up; but drastic jolts, abrupt reverses, panic-inspired measures will only make the situation worse. Looking back almost 30 years, the inflation which started accelerating in 1949 under the previous Labor Administration took 5 years until 1 954 to be controlled. The economy has to be nurtured carefully back to health. The difficulty we have faced is that not only have we tried to reverse the Labor Government's policies but we have also had to cope with the continuing effects of those policies. The damaging effect of Labor's policies did not come to an abrupt end when Labor was put out of office. The effect of an illness does not come to a sudden end when the basic cause of the illness is cured, and I can speak with feeling about that subject. In the same way, the nation continues to suffer the consequences of disastrous policies pursued in such a wanton way by the Whitiam Administration. Nevertheless, a great deal of real progress has been made in cleaning up the mess. Most fundamentally, we have reduced the Budget deficit from an initial figure of $4,800m to $3,600m in 1975-76 and our present estimate for this year is $2,600m. In the first 3 quarters of 1976 the inflation rate showed successive falls. The rate in the 3 quarters was, in turn, 3 per cent, 2 te per cent and 2.2 per cent. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development survey published a few days ago gave the clearest confirmation of the real progress being made in bringing inflation under control in this country. We aif know that because we were forced to devalue last year progress will suffer temporarily. Let us not forget that devaluation itself was a consequence of Labor's irresponsible attitude towards inflation. 
There has been a tremendous amount of time wasted by people arguing the pros and cons and the effects of devaluation, but they have all ignored the fact that we could not avoid it if we were to act responsibly in the best interests of Australia. The need to devalue flowed from the increasing lack of competitiveness as excessive inflation forced up our cost structure. Financiers, investors, speculators and others who registered our economic situation caused a run on our overseas reserves to such an extent that the Government had to act. Devaluation, while of course helpful to exporters, should serve as yet another warning to us of the dangers of inflation. 
I listened to the Leader of the Opposition talking so glibly about devaluation and criticising us so strenuously. The honourable gentleman said that the decision to devalue was absolutely wrong and that it should never have been taken. Do honourable members recall that the Labor Administration arbitrarily revalued the currency on 3 successive occasions and because it got so far out of kilter it has to devalue the currency after it had been in office for 18 months. What did the Leader of the Opposition have to say on that occasion? I quote from the Melbourne  Age  of 26 September 1974. 
The depreciation will give a filip to many domestic industries. 
Export industries, such as the rural and mining industries and manufacturing exporters, will benefit particularly, as will those sectors of industry experiencing undue pressure from import competition. 
In these ways, the devaluation will have beneficial effects on the climate in which business operates. It will thereby assist in restoring the general level of business activity and in the maintenance of employment opportunities. 
Today the Leader of the Opposition ridiculed this Government for taking action yet he is on record as defending devaluation which his 
Government introduced in 1974. Let us have a look at the record on inflation. 
When the Whitlam Government came to office in 1972 the annual rate of inflation was running at 4.6 per cent. When Labor left office in 1975 the rate was over 14 per cent. We have been able by taking action that was not always popular but which was absolutely necessary, to get the inflation situation moving in the right direction. We now have a temporary holding action forced upon us but our commitment to the anti-inflation fight must remain our first and most crucial priority. No one would see this as something that could be done easily or quickly. It is a job that demands a cool head and calm resolution. The worst thing we could do would be to lose our cool or to allow ourselves to be panicked by people shouting all sorts of conflicting advice. 
The Government's approach and its policies are sound. They are the correct policies for Australia and we will follow them with resolution and determination. They must be followed if we are to attack not just the symptoms of our problems but also their basic causes, and inflation is one fundamental cause we must attack with all our might. I have spent the whole of my political life, from the first speech I made in this ouse almost 20 years ago, urging people and governments to recognise the menace of inflation. 
If the Whitlam Government performed any service to Australia it was that it demonstrated with great clarity the damage that can be caused by inflation. Inflation has made Australian industry less competitive, so jobs have gone. Inflation inhibits new investment, so new jobs are not created. Inflation makes labour too expensive, so employers cannot affort to give people jobs. Inflation undermines business confidence, so commerce and industry do not expand and new jobs do not become available. Inflation drives Australian manufacturers out of the country, so jobs which Australians need are filled by workers overseas. Inflation discourages or makes impossible the development of new mining projects, so there are no new jobs in mines, railways, towns, ports and in all the other areas that go with such development. So inflation causes unemployment along with all the other evils that can be laid at the door of this malignant disease here and in any other country, and for that reason the Government is utterly committed to fighting inflation. We will stick to that job no matter how hard it might be or how unpalatable are the things we have to do. 
Let us look at the proposals put forward by the Opposition. I am sure that honourable members opposite will never learn, but what a tragedy it is when the alternative government can come up with only the same kind of ideas that got it into such a mess in the first place. The Opposition's proposals cover 4 points. One of them calls for various kinds of initiatives in youth support schemes, apprenticeship, retraining and so on. The Opposition does not seem to realise that the Government already has acted on these things. The Government has completely reorganised the National Employment and Training scheme with great success. The number employed under the scheme has doubled from 6 500 to 13 000. We have brought forward a youth employment training program and a completely new apprenticeship scheme. The community youth support scheme is beginning to prove of great value in giving unemployed young people a sense of purpose and self esteem, as well has having real practical value. The relocation assistance scheme is available and we are providing increased funds for technical and further education.  (Extension of time granted.) 
These employment schemes can have only a limited impact on unemployment, but that is all they are intended to do. Some of them do directly help people overcome their unemployment difficulties by adapting their skills to areas where they are most required. Others offer opportunities to tide people over until they can find jobs. But the point is this: The only way to solve the unemployment problem on a long term basis is to get inflation under control. There is no other way. People suggest all sorts of things that we should do to solve unemployment but things that cost a lot of money and add to the Budget deficit will only make the unemployment problem worse and, in the long term, no better. That is why I am staggered to hear the Opposition suggesting, for instance, that we should bring back a scheme like Labor's Regional Employment Development scheme which the Whitlam Government abolished because it was too ex- pensive. Schemes like the RED scheme might ave some short term benefits but they mask the real extent of unemployment. They divert attention from its causes and they do nothing to solve it. In fact, they tend to make unemployment worse because their effects in increasing the deficit have inflationary consequences. 
Opposition members are calling for increased government spending. One wonders whether they have learnt anything at all from the disasters they brought to this country through their own big spending. It is the legacy of Labor's spending that we are now trying to clean up, yet they want us to start doing the same things as they did all over again. There are those within the Opposition who claim that selective tax cuts will directly reduce the consumer price index and so lower inflation. Nothing could be further from the truth and this has been amply demonstrated here and in other countries. Although such tax cuts will lower the CPI in the short term, very soon the increased deficit that follows will lead to higher prices. Tax cuts now, while the deficit remains high, would be asking for trouble. People seem to forget that we have already made very large reductions in tax collections. Income tax indexation represents the most important reform in the history of our taxation scheme. During the present financial year it will return $ 1 ,000m to taxpayers. 
Let me quote an example. This year tax scales were adjusted at the rate of 13 per cent. This was the estimated rate of inflation during 1975-76. What it means is that a person earning, say, $10,000 in 1975-76 and getting an increase of 13 per cent in 1976-77 would not be penalised by having to pay tax at a higher rate. In concrete terms, a man on $ 10,000 who had a 13 per cent increase would under the old system have had to pay tax at 45 per cent on his additional $1,300. Previously, his marginal tax rate was 35 per cent. Under the new scheme the tax bands are shifted upwards and he is continuing to be taxed at a lower marginal rate. In fact, the person is $200 better off under the tax reform. The Government is committed to a continuation of this reform, so once again in July 1977 the tax bands will be shifted upwards by the amount of inflation in 1976-77 estimated by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Income tax indexation injects responsibility into government finances. No longer can a government commit itself to all sorts of extravagances and rely on inflation to bring in automatically additional revenue. It is no wonder that when Labor was in office it ducked bringing in this sort of measure. 
We have been able to introduce tax indexation, investment allowances and inflation accounting because we have cut government spending, but to suggest further large cuts in taxes now would mean a higher deficit unless, of course, we further reduced government spending which already has been heavily cut. If the deficit goes up, there are 2 ways to finance it- by printing money, with the same disastrous results as Labor produced when it did that, or by the Government competing with everyone else to borrow money, thus pushing up interest rates which are already very high. Lower interest rates are what we want. Lower interest rates would be of tremendous benefit to the economy and the community. High interest rates do a lot of harm. But there is no way we can sensibly bring interest rates down until we get inflation down. 
I heard the Leader of the Opposition talking lightly about low interest rates in the United States of America, Japan and West Germany; but he did not tell us that all of those countries have single figure inflation. The Government is determined to follow through with the sensible economic measures which it has been applying. It will not be diverted from its task by these cheap, frivolous ideas put forward by the Opposition, ideas which proved disastrous to Australia and the results of which we have to correct. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australian statistics do not record the intended usage of meat exported from this country. Similarly, Australian meat exported to an overseas country, and which is subsequently re-exported, is not statistically identifiable. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Power Act 1949, 1 present the annual report of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
It is true that our trading account is very good. Exports have been increasing considerably. However, in the current account, which includes 'invisibles'- that is, freight, insurance, travel and investment income- we have been in a deficit situation. Our invisibles' deficit has been increasing very substantially. In 1975-76 it went up by 46 per cent to $2,600m. This year it could go up by about another 30 per cent to about $3, 300m. This emphasises the need to keep up a good export performance. An adjustment can be made only by way of either export performance or a greater capital inflow into the country. I think we all realise that capital inflow is a very volatile factor and it is not good for a country to depend entirely upon it. So it is hoped that exporters will take the maximum advantage of our devaluation decision last year which gave them some trading advantage. Of course, I hope continuing action will be taken by the Government to encourage and to stimulate our export industries. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have no information on the establishment or location of any new vegetable processing factories in New Zealand. I understand that two New Zealand firms have undertaken modest expansion of production facilities. 
There have been no discussions under NAFTA concerning establishment of new vegetable processing factories in New Zealand. A range of processed vegetables are listed in Schedule A to NAFTA. Under NAFTA such goods are assured of duty free entry into both countries. NAFTA also contains rules regarding the application of quantitative restrictions on goods traded between the two countries. 
See answer to (1). 
Australian industry may seek protection from imports through a reference to the Industries Assistance Commission or the Temporary Assistance Authority. If such a course of action is considered necessary in respect of processed vegetables, the industry concerned should submit a case to the Department of Industry and Commerce. Any action taken by the Government in respect of New Zealand as a result of IAC recommendations must take account of Australia's obligations under its Trade Agreements with New Zealand. 
Pursuant to section 45 of the Pipeline Authority Act 1973, I present the annual report of the Pipeline Authority for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
I am very pleased to be able to say that the prospects this year are for record meat sales. This is a result of the representations that have been made by the Prime Minister, the Minister for Primary Industry and me to governments for greater access to their markets. Our access to the United States this year will be at a record level under the voluntary restraint arrangements. Our Japanese quotas are being continually pushed up since the ban on imports in 1974 was lifted. The European Economic Community has eased some of its restrictions and is offering a market of about 125 000 tonnes of imports of which we will have a part. One aspect that is very pleasing is the sales that have been made to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and to the eastern Soviet bloc countries. I am pleased to say that it is after my visit to the Soviet Union and the invitation of the head of the Soviet State Trading Agency that we look like making sales to the Soviet Union and Soviet bloc countries of about 100 000 tonnes which is additional to last year's sales. 
The higher prices and the greater sales mean that the industry should be doing better. I believe it is true that the non-growing sector of the industry has had a prosperous year- that is the exporters, the processors and the people who work in the meat works. But the prices have not been reflected back to the cattle producers. I think it is a bad situation for the whole of the industry if everybody does not share in the benefits. The cattle producing side of the industry has gone through 3 agonising years. Unless there is a sharing of the returns then I think great harm will be done to the industry. There should be an opportunity for higher returns going to cattle owners this year but that will depend on whether the buyers are prepared to pass the returns back and on whether the meat unions are prepared to keep the abattoirs working at full capacity which they will have to do to meet our prospective sales. 
-I do not have on hand the answer to the question, but I will have my Department look at it to see whether I can give the honourable member a suitable reply. 
It is true that there has been a serious decline in the price of sugar during the past 12 months. It has dropped from about Stg160 a tonne to Stg125 a tonne at the present time. This is causing a great deal of concern to growers in Queensland and in northern New South Wales, as well as to the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Government. It has the added effect of putting pressure on our long term sugar agreements, particularly those with Japan and Malaysia. Although these are privately negotiated contracts between the industry and commercial interests in those countries, the Government adopts the attitude that it should facilitate ongoing procedures to see that those contracts are maintained and the price held. However, in the world context there is concern. A meeting in Geneva is being planned under the auspices of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development for the purpose of creating a new international sugar agreement. Australia will be represented at this meeting. I hope that I shall be able to go there to present the case on behalf of Australia. We support international agreements. The previous one negotiated in 1968 was very successful in reviving stable prices. It helped the Australian industry considerably. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Legislation passed by the Californian Assembly and approved by the Governor on September 22 1976, is designed to promote sales of Californian commodities by a number of means including the use of'reimbursement payments to offset commodity transportation costs to foreign markets'. I understand that to date the provisions of the legislation have not been applied, but that the Californian canning peach industry expects that the necessary procedures to implement the provisions in respect of its products will shortly be initiated. 
The Australian Government is very concerned at the possible effects of the legislation, if implemented, on those Australian exports which compete with Californian products in third country markets. Discussions have been held with appropriate U.S. authorities and the matter is being pursued with the new U.S. Federal Administration and with Californian authorities. 
Under the Canned Fruits Excise Act (1963) the Australian Government administered a levy on domestic sales of canned deciduous fruit which the Australian Canned Fruits Board allocated to canneries for export assistance. This arrangement, the so-called Market Development Allowance, was discontinued following U.S. complaints in 1967-68. The Californian scheme is similar in some respects to the MDA. 
It is correct that yesterday I had discussions with the Japanese steel making industry delegation led by  Mr Tanabe.  This followed a series of discussions I had had with iron ore producers and Australian coking coal exporters. The purpose of the discussion was to exchange points of view between Australia and the Japanese steel makers. The meeting was actually requested by  Mr Tanabe  so that he could inform us of the state of the Japanese steel industry. I also made use of the occasion to reiterate some things that I had said previously to the Japanese steel industry. 
There has been some speculation in the Press that the Government may use its export control powers to ensure that satisfactory negotiations are carried out. I cannot see any need for this sort of speculation because it has been made quite clear by me and to the industry that the Government 's policy is to have a monitoring role in these sorts of negotiations and that we want to see fair and reasonable prices given to the Australian industry. If, however, the national interest is not being protected of course the Government will intervene and take action. It is our wish that there be sensible commercial negotiations without the Government having to intrude in any way. Last year there was a series of negotiations to renew contracts and they were satisfactorily concluded as I hope they will be concluded this year. I will be very grateful if the Press does not interpret my remarks as a policy similar to that of the Labor Party because its policy was one of continual interference and indeed of carrying out negotiations which on many occasions were not in accord with the wishes of the industry. 
-I agree with the honourable member that we have a very effective selling organisation in the Australian Wheat Board. It has a great record of being able to dispose of most of Australia's wheat. There were bad periods in the 1 960s when there were huge gluts but, compared with any other country, I think we do extremely well. The honourable member is correct when he says that there has been a marked slump in the international prices of wheat. This has followed a number of years of relatively high prices. The weaker price situation has been due to increased crops in the northern hemisphere. The attitude of the Australian Government has always been to foster international marketing organisations to try to stabilise and obtain reasonable prices for our wheat. For the past 20 years Australia has been involved in international wheat agreements and international grains arrangements. These fell apart in about 1972 and all Australia obtained was a new international wheat agreement. This contained no pricing or  economic  provisions but it did keep the International Wheat Council going and this has been a forum for discussion. The Government has been very active in making representations to that body to try to obtain a new international wheat agreement which contains economic provisions. Unfortunately, progress has been pretty limited because of different opinions between the United States of America and the European Economic Community. 
I was very heartened at lunch time today when Otto Lang, the Canadian Minister who is a representative on the International Wheat Council, rang me to tell me of his recent discussions with the new Secretary for Agriculture in the United States, who is keen that we have discussions to try to firm up the international marketing situation. As a result of that, I am sending the Secretary of my Department to Ottawa in a few weeks time to have an officials meeting. It is most heartening that the United States is interested in doing something. This, of course, can be an important part of the multilateral trade negotiations which are due to come forward perhaps this year. I think that if we can do the groundwork we have got every chance of getting a new international wheat agreement. 
I think the honourable member's questions give me ample scope to give him a reply. First, the honourable member referred to a statement I released on Sunday night recommending to beef producers throughout the nation that they reduce the number of cattle they are sending to the sale yards for slaughter. This statement was based on information that I have been able to accumulate showing quite clearly that the exporters can pay a higher price than they are paying at the moment for cattle. With devaluation and increased prices for meat sales as well as the prospect of increased markets over the next 12 months, they will clearly be enabled to pay at least $10 to $20 a head more than they are paying at the moment. Some people have remarked that my statement was improper. In fact some even went so far to say that it was immoral because an increase would put up the price of meat for the consumers. If anything is immoral it is people who do not want to see cattle producers getting a higher price than they are getting now. Today housewives pay for meat a price which is basically the cost of transport, slaughtering, chilling and retailing. The cattleman gets virtually nothing. The only way he can get a higher price is for the price in the store to go up. An increase of $20 per head would mean to the consumers about a lc to 2c per lb increase in the price. Yet there are people who are so selfish that they do not want to see this industry, which is in a near bankrupt situation, get any improvement. I have even seen articles in some of the newspapers saying that the increase I have suggested would have a considerable effect on the consumer price index. A lc to 2c per lb increase in the price of meat would cause an increase of one-fifth of one per cent. People ought to consider what would be the impact of some of the other increases. 
-The consumers and the public at large should realise that between 1972 and 1976 the costs of killing, dressing and delivery to the chillers increased by 102 per cent. During the same period the price received for cattle dropped by SO per cent. If there is any complaint to be made it is about the huge increase in slaughtering and other costs in the industry. Wages are certainly a major consideration. I hope people, especially the consumers, do not think they will not have to pay for increased wages by paying more for their meat, because they will have to pay. That is one of the reasons why we have been so concerned about the rapid increase in wages over the last few years. The honourable member for Grey referred to - 
I believe there is some significance to be registered in the Opposition's taking continuing points of order on a matter which is of grave concern to one of the largest industries in Australia- the cattle producing industry. It is in such a serious state that I would have thought that Opposition members would have been reasonable enough to listen to the points that I have been making. 
If the honourable member would like me to say more about the industry I would be quite happy to take up more of question time. The honourable member for Grey who, I believe, does have a genuine concern for the industry- no doubt that is the reason why he has asked the question- is not being given much support by his own colleagues. I think it is true to say that the Labor Party has never shown any concern for the cattlemen or the rural producers. 
-The point I wish to make is that if the very poor circumstances of the beef industry continue and cattle producers are forced to sell their breeding stock as evidenced by the large numbers of cows and heifers that are coming into the yards at present the Australian herd will be significantly reduced and the ultimate consequence will be that the consumers will have to pay considerably more. What we want in this country is a stable industry. If there is to be fairness then producers should at least get a reasonable share of the sales being made overseas. We are concerned that the exporters are not paying producers enough. If producers could marginally reduce the number of stock going into the yards there would be the improvement that I have suggested. 
I am happy to answer the question here. I would have thought that, as I had already given a copy of my speech to the Press, if I had not made it other questions would have been asked. In his speech the  President  of the New South Wales Graziers Association referred to what is becoming known as the Gregory theory- that over-expansion of the mining industry will have a detrimental effect on some of our existing export industries. At the luncheon with the executive of the New South Wales Graziers Association I was able to make the point that, if there was any other organisation which had more consistently advocated the efficient use of resources than that organisation, I would like to know of it. The organisation has always said that the basis of its concern about the high level of tariffs was that it was giving protection to inefficient industries and consequently was a misuse of allocations. Therefore it was very hard to follow the logic of those who now want to control or reduce the activities of the development of our mineral resources because these resources can be developed and sold in competition with other countries. 
It is probably in selected areas of our mining industry that we have a greater potential for developing industries than anywhere else. I said it would be very unfortunate and I think that it would leave a nasty atmosphere with the Graziers Association if it were interpreted that the organisation wanted to control mining because it was frightened for its own particular interests. If governments develop industries, whether they be manufacturing, rural or mining, which are going to add to our overseas earnings then it will be to the benefit of all Australians. I would not like to jeopardise development which is going to be to the benefit of all Australians. 
I recall very clearly that the honourable member made representations to me about 12 months ago expressing concern by salt producers in Western Australia that they could not arrive at satisfactory prices with the Japanese and that if satisfactory price levels were not achieved, there was a risk of some of these salt producing operations closing down. I have had discussions with the Soda Association in Japan in an attempt to reach an agreement because I was reluctant to have to intervene and to exercise my export powers. After several months of failure to come to an agreement, I was obliged to exercise minimum export prices. The Japanese Soda Association has recently attended further discussions about future prices. It has had 2 discussions with my Department, leaving a couple of key points which I wanted cleared up. I am now very pleased to say that an agreement has been reached between the Australian salt producing industry and the Japanese buyers. The Australian producers will now receive the world price and they will continue to receive it in the future. All parties to the agreement seem to be happy with the arrangements and under these conditions I will be withdrawing the minimum price arrangements on exports. 
I am well aware of the concern in South Australia at the increase in salinity in the Murray River and the serious effects that is having on some of the irrigation operations. Requests have been made for water in excess of the present entitlement to be released down the Murray River. The problem that arises is that because of the drainage from many of the irrigation areas in New South Wales and Victoria into the Murray River, there is a build-up of salinity down the Murray especially in that section past the junction of the Murrumbidgee River. That, of course, has serious consequences for South Australia. When additional water is allowed to flow down the Murray it tends either to flush out the salt or to dilute it. 
Usually there are relatively wet periods, but this year there has been a dry period which has resulted in a build-up of salinity which has caused concern. The River Murray Commission, however, has agreed to allow an additional entitlement of water to South Australia for a period of 3 months in an effort to overcome the problem. But the problem in South Australia is very much one for the South Australian Government. I know that various proposals have been put forward. I am not aware at this stage of any action being taken by the South Australian Government to put those proposals into effect. I might say that recently it has been recommended that the charter of the River Murray Commission be extended to water control. That recommendation has been passed on to the partner StatesNew South Wales, Victoria and South Australiafor approval. I hope that we will soon be able to put that into operation. At the present time the Commission also has a responsibility to look at water quality. 
I have heard reports of this nature. I cannot give the honourable member a firm reply but if he would give me a second I might be able to obtain an accurate assessment of the situation. The British Phosphate Commission, which is made up of New Zealand, the United Kingdom and Australia, operates as a corporation for the handling of rock phosphate from Nauru, Christmas Island and Cocos (Keeling) Islands. I gather that anybody can exercise a veto on operations and policy. I doubt very much whether New Zealand would object to Australia wanting to use its own phosphate. I could imagine that New Zealand would have some qualms about it if in any way it were to incur additional cost to New Zealand for the phosphate which it uses. But there would be advantage for New Zealand in Australia becoming more reliant on its own resources, as the life of the Nauru and Christmas Island deposits would be extended if the same demands on them were not being made by Australia. 
The Australian Government has announced that it wants to see incorporated a certain quantity of phosphate rock from Duchess in Queensland which is operated by Queensland Phosphate Ltd. The Government has already said that it would like to see 2S0 000 tonnes taken for the balance of this year and 500 000 tonnes for each successive year. It is a matter for negotiation between the manufacturers and that company to arrive at what is a satisfactory price. The phosphate is not of quite the same grade as some of the other deposits but this factor can be adjusted by price. I would think that it is more a case of speculation that people have said that this action by the British Phosphate Commission has been the reason for delays in those negotiations. I think that it has been more a concern by manufacturers as to whether they can cope with this rock and what price will ultimately have to be arrived at. It has been made clear that the Government wants to see Duchess rock incorporated in the quantities used by our manufacturers. That is a firm undertaking. It is in the national interest that we do it. I hope that agreement can be reached as quickly as possible. 
About a week or so ago, Professor Messel came to see me for the purpose of bringing me up-to-date with the work with regard to solar energy that is going on at the University of Sydney. I also had the opportunity of reading the comments of Professor Butler in the newspapers today. The research team at the Sydney University believes that it has made some major breakthroughs. It states that it needs more finance to prove fully the research that it has done so far. I told Professor Messel that, when appropriations are being made this year, certainly the work of Sydney University will be put before the appropriate authorities so that it can be evaluated and given the priority that it deserves. On the question of royalties, it would be very hard for a government to be arbitrary and say that Australia's rights must be preserved. Certainly it is in the interests of Australians to see that people such as those in universities are assisted in taking out copyright for any such inventions so that we get the maximum benefit. If I can help people such as those in Sydney University with their research work in getting such copyright I shall do so. 
I do not intend to enter into any controversy between the Western Australian 
Government and the Commonwealth Government over the negotiations that have been proceeding for the development of the North West Shelf. The approach of the Commonwealth has been to have tripartite negotiations between the Commonwealth, the Western Australian Government and the joint venturers. In those tripartite discussions all the issues of concern will be canvassed. I can assure the House that ultimate responsibility for off-shore development lies with the Commonwealth Government and that the Commonwealth Government will be the final arbiter in any decision that takes place. I do not intend to canvass the figures mentioned by the honourable member one way or the other. It is the Federal Government's policy to give permission for the export of quantities of natural gas which will make the venture commercially viable. Unless a quantity of gas is exported which will attract people to develop these resources, they will not be developed. 
-On Tuesday afternoon Peko-Ez informed me that the board had on legal advice brought  force majeure  to notice of the Japanese electricity utilities. Yesterday I received advice from Queensland Mines Ltd that it was doing likewise. I note, too, that Queensland Mines Ltd made a statement to the Stock Exchange which has been reported in the Press today. Peko-Ez told me that it sought legal advice for 2 reasons. The first was the uncertainty surrounding the development of Australia's uranium resources pending the outcome of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. The second was the delay in reaching agreement with the Government on the terms of the stockpile borrowing. Queensland Mines made similar points in the statement that it released to the stock exchange. 
In regard to the first point, it is well known that the Government's attitude is that there will be no decision on any uranium policy until the Ranger report has been presented. As regards the second point, the Government has been negotiating arrangements with Peko-Ez and Queensland Mines for access to the Government's stockpile to meet early delivery under those contracts. These negotiations are continuing and we hope that they will be finalised very soon. But of course I would not like to comment on the details of those negotiations. Peko-Ez told me that it is expressing its hope to the Japanese utility companies that there will be a speedy and satisfactory solution of the present situation and that it will be possible to establish a mutually rewarding long-term relationship between it and the Japanese companies. It would not be appropriate for me to comment further on the possible outcome of ongoing commercial relationships between the Australian companies and their overseas customers. As regards the Government's attitude to the approved export contracts, I repeat what I said in a statement in this House on 25 February 1976, namely, that the Government would wish to see honoured those contracts for the supply of uranium entered into before December 1972. These contracts were also confirmed by the Whitlam Government. 
-The level of inflation is based on 2 sets of figures. There are the broadly based Statistician's figures in relation to all price increases and there are the consumer price index figures. If the Medibank factor is taken out of the 
CPI figures it will be seen that our rate of inflation is running in the vicinity of approximately 10.5 per cent in both cases. 
-A United Nations sugar conference to be opened in Geneva on 18 April comes at a very opportune time for the Australian sugar industry. It is opportune because since 1974 prices have been declining and costs of production in Australia have been increasing. The Commonwealth places enormous importance on this sugar conference as it can stabilise world prices and indeed bolster them. We played a leading part in the formulation of an international sugar agreement in 1968. 1 was pleased to spend quite a considerable time at that conference. In this case I will be leading the Australian delegation to Geneva. I do not know whether I will see any familiar faces there, but my previous experience will serve me well. The Queensland Government also places enormous importance on the conference and is sending to the conference two of its Ministers as well as the AgentGeneral for Queensland and the  Chairman  of the Queensland Sugar Board. 
I have been planning discussions with the industry to try to work out a strategy as to how the negotiations should proceed. Those discussions will take place in Canberra on Thursday of this week. It seems possible that we will achieve an agreement, maybe not in the first round of discussions by probably later this year, because for the first time the United States of America has been showing interest in having such an agreement. The new United States Secretary for Agriculture,  Mr Bergland,  has been giving his support to the discussions. Also helpful comments have been coming from the European Economic Community. Cuba and Brazil are keen to attend the conference and both countries are sending senior trade Ministers to the meeting. So I think that this augers well for the achievement of another successful international sugar agreement. 
-The honourable member has directed his question to the wrong person because he obviously does not realise that I remember very clearly all the facts relating to the imposition of wheat quotas in the 1968-69 period. They were imposed because a request was made by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation for a restriction on production due to the heavy oversupply of wheat in the granaries in Australia as well as in other countries. In fact, it had got to a position where we could no longer provide storage space for additional production and if efforts had been made to produce more wheat much of it would have been spoiled. 
I do not have to give any guarantee. The only guarantee I would give is that if the wheatgrowers made a similar request to the Government of course we would look at it because their request would be in the interests of the Australian wheat growers to maintain their position as reliable and stable producers. No industry can continue to survive if it produces and cannot sell. 
In the last couple of days some very encouraging figures relating to our mineral exports for the 6-month period from June to December as compared with the previous 6 months have come from the Bureau of Statistics. These figures show that the value of our mineral exports has increased by 30 per cent but I think we can look forward to an even more promising period this year as the full effects of devaluation come forward. The prospects for selling our bulk minerals as well as some of our non-ferrous minerals have certainly improved. There are at present very good prices for tin and lead and the prices for some of our other metals are slowly increasing. In the case of alumina, there has been quite a substantial lift in the last 6 months. There has been a 23 per cent increase in the volume of exports and the average price rose from $76 to $93 per tonne- an increase of 22 per cent. When Alcoa's new plant at Pinjarra comes in with more production our income from alumina exports will go up considerably. As I have said, the prospects seem good. It will depend very much on the rate of international recovery but if this continues I believe that the Australian mining industry can look forward to a more fortunate period than it has experienced in the last few years. 
I have read reports in today's Press that the Queensland Government has given coal exploration rights to an overseas company, lt is within the authority of the Queensland Government to do so. I would not want to interfere with the Queensland Government's policy on how it chooses or selects people to carry out explorations. However, when the stage for development is reached, should that company be successful with its exploration, it will be necessary, if there is to be foreign participation, for the matter to go before the Foreign Investment Review Board for consideration to see whether it meets Federal Government guidelines. 
I inform the House that the Prime Minister will not be attending the House today as he is in Western Australia farewelling the Queen at the conclusion of Her Majesty's visit to Australia. 
-May I give my support to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports in the sentiment expressed by him initially and express the hope that he will be here for many more years. Australia's attitude has been made perfectly clear in relation to an integrated program for the marketing of commodity products. I am disappointed to see reports challenging the sincerity or the validity of the Government's attitude. The Government supported this resolution at the UNCTAD Conference in Nairobi and it has participated in all the meetings that have resulted from that resolution. These meetings have dealt with a whole host of commodities. Australia has been very much to the forefront throughout the years as an initiator of international commodity agreements and is a party to many commodity agreements. The only agreement operating at the moment which has a buffer fund requirement is the tin agreement, to which Australia makes a contribution. The reports suggesting that Australia is against the idea of a Common Fund are not correct. The idea of a Common Fund is to enable buffer stocks to be held so as to try to stabilise or firm up prices in the market. The precise question of a Common Fund must be related to individual commodities and products and Australia is not yet satisfied that the proposals coming forward can work in practice. 
The Government's attitude on these specific commodities is no different from that of the United States of America, the European Economic Community or Japan. Australia will be supporting Common Fund arrangements where they can be sensibly applied and work effectively. I hope that those people whose interpretation is that Australia is reluctant to support the Common Fund will correct their attitudes. Many people in the community have adopted this idea that everybody must make a contribution to a Common Fund. In fact, people are sending a $2 contribution to my office to add to the Common Fund. I appreciate the intention of these wellmeaning people but I have had to tell my staff to return the money to them and inform them that if Australia does become involved in Common Fund arrangements, the contribution will be met by the taxpayers. 
-The world dairy trade has immense problems mainly because of the restrictive trade barriers that operate in North America and the European Economic Community. We have a long record over the years of trying to get access to these markets, both through multilateral negotiations and bilateral understandings. However, we have not been as successful as we would have hoped to be, but we will be making this matter one of the main features, along with matters of other agricultural commodities, of the multinational trade negotiations which we hope will commence this year. We will certainly want to see a freer flow of agricultural commodities. 
With regard to skim milk powder, the Australian Government, along with the dairy industry, has been making requests to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to increase the floor price from the present price of $350 a ton, which has existed for the last 3 years, to $500 a ton. Negotiations have been going on with a number of countries. Discussions have been held with New Zealand, which is very important in this aspect, to get its support. If we can get major producers such as New Zealand and the European Economic Community to support our proposals the world price should increase. 
-My attention has been drawn to the wide publicity given to the comments of the Leader of the Opposition in stating the Australian Labor Party's policy. I am somewhat astonished that the Leader of the Opposition has just discovered the question of nuclear safeguards because, prior to this, the Labor Party's only attitude was to take note of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. The items that the Leader of the Opposition spelt out yesterday comprise the first detailed statement we have had from him on the subject. In fact the only other statement of recent times was one towards the end of last year when he said that a Labor government of the future would not honour any contracts entered into for the sale of uranium. He was virtually saying that there would be no development of uranium in Australia, thereby closing the debate which the Opposition has accused us of not having. The Labor Party's attitude has been made up and finalised before the second Fox report has come out. I should like to draw the attention of the House to the statements of this Government and in particular the statement made to the Fox inquiry in April last year. We gave it our indicative thinking of what stringent safeguards there should be for the sale and export of uranium. I have here the statement that was given to the Fox inquiry and seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
I read a rather extraordinary report in a newspaper today that the Premier of South Australia is, like his federal colleague, pre-empting the debate on the uranium question prior to the presentation of the final Fox report. The Premier has said that South Australia will not support the mining or the enrichment of uranium in that State. That is a rather incredible statement for him to make because last year he wrote to the Prime Minister and to me at the time when he presented a report on enrichment- a study that had been carried out over 2 years in South Australia. He had taken great pride in being in advance of the other States in doing this sort of work and I give him full credit for that. In the letter to the Prime Minister he said: 
While the committee will continue its study on the locution of a plant in South Australia no firm negotiations of any kind will be entered into until the final report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry has been made public. 
Apparently the Premier of South Australia has completely reversed that position by his statement yesterday. It is rather hard to understand his decision. The South Australian Government presented a report on 2 years of work. Consultations on an enrichment plant were held with the previous Minister for Minerals and Energy. The study had the support of that Minister. In those days honourable members opposite had a policy of encouraging enrichment and they even promoted a study between Australia and Japan on the whole question of enrichment. But this report presented by the South Australian Government accepts the mining of uranium and the development of a hexafluoride plant in South Australia as well as an enrichment plant. Yet today, after having carried out 2 years of work, all of a sudden the Premier says that there will be none in South Australia. 
I think that those people who have been exploring for uranium in South Australia and who have discovered some very good deposits, one at Lake Frome and the other recently at Roxbury Downs- in conjunction with a very extensive copper body- must be somewhat disappointed. In the case of Roxbury Downs the copper cannot be mined unless the uranium also is mined. So I suppose that this decision means that there will be no development of the copper deposits at Roxbury Downs. I think that the Premier is completely confused. He is acting in an expedient way because of pressure being put on him by either his federal colleagues or left-wing unions in South Australia. What is obvious is that the Australian Labor Party is completely confused on the question of uranium. The Leader of the Opposition comes out with some policy points of view and the shadow Minister - 

 -Mr Speaker, I think that I ought to quote what the Premier of South Australia had to say in a debate on 27 July last year. In answering the South Australian Leader of the Opposition he said: 
The Leader has said that, because of the report- 
That is the report to which I have referred- the Government has had, there is a grave community concern about the dangers of radio-activity in the mining and milling of uranium. I do not know what grave public concern there is. Apparently the Leader has not studied the history of uranium in South Australia, which was a major producer of uranium. In the past we had the State-run mine at Radium Hill and a treatment works at Port Pirie. A former South Australian Minister of Labour and Industry was a miner at Radium Hill, and the proponent of the whole program was  Sir Thomas  Playford. Radium Hill was an extremely successful State project, for which we gave  Sir Thomas  great credit. Where was the great difficulty about the danger of radioactivity in the mining and milling of uranium then, and what case can the Leader cite of lack of care or medical problems that arose out of that mining and treatment project? 
That is what he said in the House. 
-That was the Premier of South Australia, the man who yesterday said that there would be no future mining - 
I do not think one should take lightly the statement made by the Premier of South Australia, because it will have a tremendous bearing on the economy of South Australia, on whether an enrichment plant, if one is to be developed, should be developed in South Australia and on whether the mining of uranium should be allowed in South Australia. Those things would have a very significant bearing on the development of that State, but I think that one must acknowledge that a study was carried out on an enrichment project for South Australia and that if that project became a reality it would be by far the largest single project in South Australia and obviously would provide employment for a good many people. But for the benefit of the - 
I thank you for your indulgence,  Mr Speaker.  I seek leave to table the report from the South Australian Government which was presented to the Commonwealth. 
-Norwich Park is one of the big potential coal mining projects in the Bowen basin area. It is basically owned by the Central Queensland Coal Associates, with Utah being the principal shareholder. Discussions were held at the beginning of last year about the equity arrangements so that this project may go ahead. In discussions with myself and the Treasurer, agreement was reached in about April last year clearing the way for the project to proceed. The agreement was that there be at least 50 per cent Australian equity in the project, or else for total Australian equity in the Queensland Coal Associates to be lifted from 1 1 per cent to 20 per cent, in other words, spreading the 50 per cent equity in one mine across the other 3 mines. This was agreed to by the Commonwealth. Since then, however, there have been protracted negotiations with the Queensland Government on extending the coal recovery rights from the field, and also on the freight rates for carriage of the coal to Hay Point. I am led to believe that yesterday the Queensland Government finally concluded these negotiations to allow Utah to proceed with the development of the mine. There are some small formal environmental questions still to be answered. I believe that these can be cleared up in a matter of days so I am pleased to say that this very large project which will have an investment of over $250m will be proceeding immediately now that the Queensland Government has finally completed negotiations. 
-There has been very considerable activity in the coal mining industry. Much of that activity surrounds the honourable member's area of the Hunter Valley. The new coal loader at Newcastle has been completed and this will double the capacity out of that port from about 10 million tonnes to 20 million tonnes  per annum,  which will rival Hay Point in Queensland. Some very encouraging prospects have been opened up, one of which is at Boggabri which apparently could be a very extensive coal mining area; another is around Warkworth where the Lemmington Mine is reaching completion. It will have a capacity of over 1 million tonnes of coal. Other areas are also being prospected. There is a good deal of activity all round New South Wales in expanding the mining industry. One encouraging area is the sales of steaming coal that we are making. In the last 6 months contracts have been signed for 1.4 million tonnes of steaming coal. This compares with nil exports for the previous 6 months. 
The reason that we are now starting to export steaming coal is that we have removed completely the export levy which made it impossible to export. The devaluation of the currency has also helped this industry. It is encouraging to know of the interest that is being shown in the Australian coal mining industry. At the moment 3 high level missions are in Australia looking at the coal mining industry- from Japan, South Korea and from the European Economic Community. Other missions will be here shortly from Finland, West Germany, Spain and France. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Fourth UNCTAD Conference in Nairobi adopted Resolution 93 (IV) on an Integrated Program for Commodities. 
This resolution provided for the convening of a series of preparatory meetings followed by commodity negotiation conferences between September 1976 and the end of 1978 on 1 8 specified products of particular interest to developing countries. It also provided for the convening of a negotiating conference on a common fund for financing of buffer stocks. 
The objectives of the Integrated Program, as set out in the Resolution, include seeking to achieve stable conditions in commodity trade, which encompass the avoidance of excessive price fluctuations, at price levels that are remunerative and just to producers and equitable to consumers, take account of world inflation and changes in the world economic and monetary situations and promote equilibrium between supply and demand within expanding world commodity trade. The Resolution also sets out a number of measures which might be applied singly or in combination including action in the context of international commodity arrangements in the light of each commodity situation. The resolution provided a framework for future deliberations and negotiations on individual commodities and on a common fund. It did noi call for decisions to be taken on these matters in advance of such negotiations. 
Australia endorsed the intention and purpose of Resolution 93 (IV) on the Integrated Program for Commodities and undertook to partipate fully in the future deliberations and negotiations. 
Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health: Second Report (Question No. 135) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l)and(2) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In 1975-76 some 214 tonnes of beef and veal were imported into Australia from New Zealand. In 1976-77 (7 months to January) preliminary figures indicate that 681 tonnes have been imported from New Zealand. 
Imports of beef from New Zealand in recent years have been particularly small in relation to Australian production which totalled 1.84 million tonnes in 1975-76 and 1 .05 million tonnes in 1 976-77 ( 7 months to January). 
New Zealand is the only source from which Australia permits imports of fresh, chilled or frozen meats. Imports from third countries are prohibited at present because of Australia's strict health requirements. In the context of world-wide trade in beef the Australian Government strongly advocates the liberalisation of access for Australian beef to world markets. It would be inconsistent with this policy for Australia to seek restraints on imports from New Zealand, particularly when such imports are small in relation to local production. At the same time it should be recognised there is free access for Australian beef to the New Zealand market and any steps taken to limit imports from New Zealand could give rise to retaliatory action. 
I am aware of the concern expressed by certain beef producers as a result of imports of beef from New Zealand and in view of the sensitive nature of this trade, officers from my Department and the Department of Primary Industry maintain a watch on imports of beef from New Zealand. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Senior officials of the Commission of the European Economic Community met with Government representatives in Canberra in March this year to discuss multilateral and bilateral issues relating to the trade between Australia and the EEC. On the Australian side we naturally wanted to discuss the impact of the Community's policies in the agricultural sector on Australia's exports of primary products, particularly beef and veal. The Government stressed the very unsatisfactory access and price conditions which have existed in the beef and veal trade for the last three years and pointed to the clear need for greater co-operation between exporters and importers in bringing greater stability and reliability into the international beef market. Although Australian welcomed the community's decision in December last year to permit 75 000 tonnes of manufacturing grade beef to be imported under two global quotas between April and December this year, the Government emphasised to the members of the Commission that it was still concerned at the likelihood that the revised variable levy scheme operating from I April would prevent regular and substantial imports of beef and veal into the Community and would restrict access to the EEC beef market to periods of short domesticsupply which could be both relatively brief and infrequent. 
Australia also expressed its concern at the very high level of EEC export subsidies which had encouraged considerable Community exports of beef and veal. In the very depressed conditions ruling in the world market during this period, these subsidised sales had further reduced those market outlets still remaining for traditional exporting countries as well as aggravating the already depressed world market prices. 
The Commission representatives sought to ensure the Australian delegation that it was not the intention of the EEC to achieve self-sufficiency in beef production, particularly in the area of manufacturing grade beef, where the Community is likely to have a continuing need for imported beef. The Commission believed that the recent surplus situation which existed in the Community was due to very heavy slaughterings attributed in particular to the rising prices of imported feedgrains on which the EEC was dependent. On the question of export subsidies, the Commission said that it was not the intention of the Community to actively seek the expansion of their beef exports in the longer term and that the recent increasing level of exports reflected the short term oversupply situation in the EEC. 
In relation to the negotiations with the Japanese steel mills regarding both iron ore and coking coal exports, there were preliminary discussions with these groups and the Japanese steel mills in which the attitude of the Australian Government was indicated. During those discussions I pointed out that it was the Government's wish to see the full effects of devaluation passed on to Australia. Since then there has been a series of negotiations. The first of these to be concluded was about the export of coal from the Newcastle port. Those negotiations have been concluded to the satisfaction of both the exporters and the Japanese steel mills. A new round of negotiations is now going on with the South Coast mines. I have been keeping very closely in touch with those negotiations. I have also had to send messages to Japan regarding those negotiations. I do not wish to say any more at this time about those messages but I have made it quite clear in my negotiations with Japan and in statements to this House that if we see reason for using our export controls because of unfair and unreasonable prices or treatment we shall use them. 
It is true that a German mission has been here, for the second time, to look at the prospect of converting coal to motor spirit. It was led by Professor Imhausen whom I met last year both in Germany and here. He is probably the world authority in this area. He originally came out to Australia to see what the prospects were and whether we had suitable coals and fields of sufficient size. He has come back with a proposal. My Department has arranged for him to consult with mining interests and State governments. The proposal envisages conducting a feasibility study on a $2.9m a ton per annum synthetic fuel plant which produces about 10 per cent liquid petroleum gas, 45 per cent gasolene and 45 per cent distillate from about 8.6 million tons of coking coal or 9 million tons of brown coal. Such a project would cost in the vicinity of $ 1,300m. Whilst the investment might seem enormous at this stage, it does appear that the conversion of coal to motor spirits will become a reality in the 1980s. The Germans believe that a feasibility study now costing about $3m could be the start of such a very large investment. 
I am sure that the State governments of Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland will be particularly interested to consider the proposal which will mean a sharing investment by the German Government and by Australian interests. This study was carried out under the auspices of a scientific and technological agreement that we now have with Germany. I believe it offers enormous potential for our coal industry and also for meeting the future oil needs of this country. 
-The honourable member from Western Australia obviously has a pretty keen interest in this matter. Not only will this be a large development in Western Australia, it will be the largest development this nation has entered into. It will be one of tremendous economic significance for all of us. Negotiations have been going on for some time to see whether the company can proceed with a feasibility study leading to the eventual development of the area. Before commencing the feasibility study the company is seeking to obtain certain assurances from both the Western Australian Government and the Commonwealth Government. At this stage progress has been made on some items but some are still outstanding. The volume of exports is one matter which cannot be determined until the pricing arrangements with Western Australia for domestic consumption and the volume of that gas are determined. The situation has reached the stage where I believe that that decision will not be long in coming forth. Other matters dealing with finance, taxation, customs and foreign investment all require a good deal of detailed study before the Government can commit itself. The matter requires an enormous amount of detailed work by the company in submitting its proposals before it is in a position to do the study. However, much work has been done in this area. I hope it will not be very long before answers can be given which will assure the company that it can proceed on a profitable and viable basis. 
-by leave- It was some 5 years ago when I last made a comprehensive statement to the House on international trade. Looking back over the period I think it is fair to say that in many ways these have been the most traumatic years since the end of World War II- traumatic not least I might add in the area of international trade. 
Many trade problems call for personal intervention at a ministerial level. In fact since returning to office I have visited almost all our major trading partners. It is appropriate to address the House today after having recently returned from an overseas visit to Europe and North America. During the past 2 months I have had wideranging discussions in Wellington, Geneva, Brussels, Washington and Ottawa. These discussions have enabled me to pursue matters of great significance to all Australians. 
Trade amounts to 30 per cent of Australia's gross domestic product. Australia ranks sixteenth in the world trading community and hence taken as a whole we are not a major world force in trade. Our export importance is, however, far more significant than this in many commodities crucial to the world economy. We are the leading world exporter of wool, beef, alumina, iron ore and mineral sands. We are among the top three or four suppliers of many other rural and mining products. 
Trade is an intensely dynamic area. I am sure honourable members will be aware of the growth of our exports to Japan. In one generation these have risen from negligible proportions to constitute one-third of our exports. Even over much shorter periods, major structural changes can and do occur. Since 1971 we have seen some Australian export industries make huge strides. Alumina and nickel are prominent mining industry examples. Though price is still a problem, beef exports have increased in volume terms by 60 per cent.  Major new  markets for beef have been developed in the Middle East and eastern Europe. 
The past five years in general have seen a continuation of the longer term trends for both exports and imports. Imports rose from $4, 140m in 1 97 1 to $9, 1 40m in 1 976. Growth was particularly rapid for finished consumer goods. Exports during the same period rose from $4,6 10m to $ 10,750m. The mineral sector continued to expand its share of exports and constituted over 30 per cent of the total in 1976. Rural exports grew at a slower rate but last year still accounted for 46 per cent of our total exports. Manufacturers throughout this period remained at about 20 per cent of exports. With manufactures, however, the growth of processed goods like alumina tends to mask a fall in the export share of our more labour intensive manufactures. 
One way or another trade impinges upon just about every aspect of our economic life. It is vital therefore that our trade policy be fully integrated with our overall economic policy. We must strive for a harmony between our trade policies and our domestic industry policies. 
During the last few years we have witnessed the oil crisis, unprecedented exchange rate fluctuations and world stagflation. For the first time since the end of World War II we had a year when world trade- indeed world income- actually declined. This experience has been a salutary lesson to all of us. We had complacently expected economic growth to continue indefinitely. We had become accustomed to periodic downturns in growth but not a fall in absolute terms. Accompanying this recession was worldwide inflation. Few developed countries experienced such high levels of inflation as Australia. 
The quadrupling of oil prices brought a new realisation of the importance of energy in the world economy. The surpluses earned by oil exporters have brought very great pressures on other countries' balance of payments. Last month I led the Australian delegation at the International Monetary Fund deliberations in Washington. An especially important issue was how to augment international liquidity. The world needs to replace the demand which idle surpluses of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries have subtracted from the world economy. But it has to find a noninflationary way of doing this. At the same meeting the continued fragility of the world economy was stressed. Many countries continued to voice acute fear that the world could still be thrown into a 1930s situation by a competitive erection of trade barriers. 
The recent London Economic Summit strongly rejected protectionism. It called for a new impetus to the Multilateral Trade Negotiations now in progress in Geneva. It called for expanded trade opportunities. The highly industrialised countries whose leaders participated in the London Summit maintain relatively open markets for imports of manufactured goods. This is certainly not the case for temperate agricultural products. For 25 years, agricultural trade has been largely by-passed in successive rounds of global tariff reductions. It is now the area where the greatest progress can be made in ensuring the world's resources are used more efficiently. 
I am pleased to report that Australia's views on this are now finding a good measure of support. It is becoming widely agreed that progress m dealing with agricultural trade problems is essential to satisfy the objectives of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations. In my recent discussions overseas, both the Director-General of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and the newly appointed United States Special Trade Representative supported this view. 
The world economic downturn greatly exacerbated the problems for temperate rural products. The governments of many countries in various ways attempted to insulate their domestic producers from the downturn. Beef has been a special problem area. Our access to the United States and Canadian beef markets was restricted. Our access to the Japanese markets was eliminated and European Economic Community imports from Australia were reduced to negligible quantities. In 1973 total exports were 627 000 tonnes. During the 1974 exports had to be curtailed to 333 000 tonnes. We have made the strongest representations to each of these governments. But it is only recently that we are seeing a pay off with better access. In 1977 we are likely to export over 700 000 tonnes- an all time record. 
Our difficulties on access to markets for the dairy products remain longer term ones. Nevertheless here we have an ironic situation. The Australian dairy industry is among the most efficient in the world. Yet we are having to cut it back. We are having to dismantle large sections of the industry because other countries insist on, in effect, subsidising their own inefficient industry. These subsidies restrict our access to their domestic markets. Just as seriously, the subsidised products are dumped on third markets further reducing the potential sales for Australia and other efficient producers. 
Many domestic industries have found themselves in critical situations. Australian inflation, currency revaluations and the across-the-board tariff cut of 1973 reduced their competitiveness. On the rural side this meant a vicious cost-price squeeze. Import competing manufacturers found themselves undercut on the domestic market. 
Our balance of payments weakened and we were forced to devalue in September 1974 and more recently in November 1976. 
The economic situation caused a decline in Australian demand. The effects of this and the severe competition faced by Australian manufacturing industry can easily be demonstrated. Over 100 000 jobs in manufacturing have disappeared since 1973. On the basis of trends we could reasonably have expected the creation of some 50 000 new jobs in manufacturing since then. In the textile, clothing and footwear sector alone 40 000 jobs disappeared. Many of our markets overseas responded to more intense competition simply by cutting out foreign goods. We have not done so. At the same time we have not felt able to act as generously as we would have wanted towards many of our suppliers. Australia- and I think this is a bipartisan policyhas felt compelled to introduce restraints on certain imports. But let us be clear in the extent of these restraints. They are not nearly so great as some of our 'free-trade-at-any-price brigade' assume. In fact they cover just 4V4 per cent of our imports but are particularly prevalent in the textile, clothing and footwear areas. In all cases where restraint has been introduced it has been at a level which permits imports to continue at near record levels. 
The Government recognises the need to give adequate protection to Australian industry. Imports of textiles and apparel into most developed countries are subject to restraints of one kind or another. It should be noted that Australia's per capita imports of clothing and footwear compare more than favourably with those of many other developed countries. Imports of these products- largely from developing countries- have grown from $67m to $286m over the past 5 years. Hence I have very real difficulties with those who maintain that our actions have been unduly restrictive or harsh. Nor do I accept the criticism that our policy has provided little opportunity for developing countries to expand their trade. 
Our recognition of the needs of the developing countries is shown by our system of tariff preferences for these countries. Australia, under a former Liberal-Country Party government, was the first country in the world to introduce a system of tariff preferences for developing countries. In the decade since then the system has been considerably expanded to the benefit of those countries. A comprehensive review was completed last year. Tariff preferences have enabled developing countries to compete more effectively with other suppliers. About 85 per cent of all items in the tariff are now duty free or have a reduced rate of duty for developing countries. 
In a wider context the process of world change and the difficulties of market access has brought an intensification of international economic diplomacy. I have already made reference to the multilateral trade negotiations and the London Economic Summit. We have also seen greater activity on the part of developing countries in particular through the Conference of International Economic Cooperation (CIEC) and through the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). Developing nations are calling for a new deal. They are calling for a new international economic order to improve their terms of trade, trading prospects and access to capital for development. 
The problems of international commodity trade are of major concern to developing countries and to Australia. Support for orderly international commodity marketing arrangements is a key factor in our approach. We belong to all the international commodity agreements currently in operation. We are participating actively in the UNCTAD integrated program for commodities. 
By employing mechanisms tailored to the particular circumstances of individual commodities, international commodity agreements can play a major part in ironing out the peaks and troughs inherent in commodity trade. Greater stability provides a firm planning base for both producers and consumers. At the same time, we do not wish to join attempts to manipulate prices artificially. Still less would Australia wish to be a party to any attempts at international blackmail. 
Two commodities of particular importance to Australia- sugar and wheat- are currently the subject of international discussions. Last month I attended the United Nations Sugar Conference in Geneva which is attempting to negotiate a new International Sugar Agreement. As a major sugar exporter, Australia has much at stake. A successful outcome to the negotiations is of critical importance to Australia and the world sugar industry. 
The United States is playing an active role in the sugar negotiations. This is consistent with the more forthcoming attitude of the present United States Administration to the question of international commodity arrangements. The United States is also playing an active role in ongoing discussions which Australia hopes will lead to the early negotiation of a new International Wheat Agreement. During my recent visit to North 
America I was able to familiarise myself at first hand with the views of senior United States Administration officials and Canadian Ministers. We were able to discuss our specific approaches to the wheat and sugar negotiations and to international co-operation in the commodities area generally. 
In recent years the mining industry has been at the forefront of our growth. Within the mining industry, energy has been the pace-setter. Over the last 5 years Australian coal exports have increased fivefold to $1.1 billion. Our selfsufficiency in oil has moved from half to twothirds though we are now approaching our peak in oil production. We are currently running a trade surplus in energy of about $500m and in the years ahead we can look forward to considerable expansion in coal and natural gas exports. Nowhere are the dynamics of world trade more marked than in energy. 
Whilst in Brussels I had some most interesting discussions with  Mr Brunner,  the European Commissioner for Energy, and  Mr Hijzen.  the Director-General in charge of external relations. The question of Australia's potential to supply energy- both coal and uranium- surfaced as a very real European concern. Discussions covered ways and means of expanding our relations. I reminded the Europeans that Australia is one of the world's most efficient producers of foodstuffs. I pointed out that since 1973 when Britain joined the European Economic Community, access to what was once our largest market for foodstuffs has been progressively closed off. This agricultural protectionism together with import duties on processed minerals shuts out many of our best export prospects. I called attention to the current account deficit we are running with the EEC. This is now approaching $2 billion a year. Furthermore it is estimated to grow in the years to come unless we are given more equal opportunities to sell our goods in the EEC. In these discussions I was able to prepare the ground for further talks by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he visits Europe next month. 

 President Carter's recently announced energy policy highlighted the problems which the Americans can foresee in their own and indeed the world supply of energy. In the United States also, there was considerable interest in Australia as a future uranium supplier. I was able to explore American attitudes with, among others,  Dr Schlesinger, Mr Carter's  energy adviser. In a wide range of discussions we covered American attitudes to nuclear safeguards, nuclear waste products and uranium enrichment. We agreed on an exchange of information on solar energy. 
We are collaborating on coal research and development and will shortly sign a co-operation agreement. We discussed energy conservation. These talks will be vitally important in our own evolving energy policy. 
Australia has 20 per cent of the world's uncommitted low cost uranium.  Dr Schlesinger  confirmed that if Australia developed its resources, we will be able to assume a much more important role in the achievement of more stringent international nuclear safeguards. We will gain an influential voice in establishing a more effective non-proliferation regime. Both the Americans and Europeans stressed that uranium is essential to provide the energy necessary to further world growth. It is estimated that by 1985 20 per cent of America's electricity will be nuclear generated. Furthermore, a fourfold increase in nuclear generation is expected in the 15 years between 1985 and 2000. 
Japan is currently our largest market and the major consumer of our energy exports. Japan is likely to remain our largest energy market. Even more than the Americans and the Europeans, the Japanese have a vital interest in Australia's future energy trade policy. More than any other market, Japan has provided the driving force of Australian trade expansion over recent years. Our 2 countries have achieved a very high degree of interdependence. Naturally the magnitude of our trade, and its potential, throws up problem areas. We are seeking greater access for those agricultural products where this is still extremely limited. Beef is clearly an issue of prominence; fruit and dairy products are others. It remains a top priority for the Government to impress on the Japanese that growing access for agricultural products is vital to the overall health of our relationship. Japan takes a third of our exports and supplies over a fifth of our imports. A close identity in our basic interests will continue. The future is certain to bring a considerable expansion in our rural exports as well as in energy and minerals. 
New Zealand is Australia's fourth largest export market. It is by far our biggest market for manufactured exports. Recently  Senator Cotton  and I were in Wellington to attend the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement talks with  Mr Talboys  and  Mr Adams-Schneider.  Both sides recognised mutual problems. New Zealand manufacturers have had almost unrestricted entry into Australia, whilst for many Australian firms, access into the New Zealand market has been severely limited. Australian industry is questioning the equity of this. New Zealand industry, after the first 10 years of 
NAFTA, has achieved a much more competitive position. Naturally we appreciate the very considerable balance of payments problems still confronting New Zealand. We also recognise the achievements made in co-operative development and rationalisation of our 2 countries' industries. What is required now is a better balance in opportunities to sell manufactures in each others' markets. Further progress must depend on recognition by New Zealand of this need. 
Australia and Papua New Guinea have a special economic relationship. This was recognised, following that country's independence, in the negotiation of a trade and commercial relations agreement. The agreement came into force in February this year. It substantially ensures the maintenance of Papua New Guinea's free market access into Australia. But it recognises that Papua New Guinea, as a developing nation, cannot be expected to extend reciprocal treatment to Australia. 
Other countries in Asia and Oceania have become increasingly important. The People's Republic of China is proving to be a most valuable trading partner. Even now there is a highlevel delegation from China in Australia for the fourth round of meetings of the joint trade committee. Australia welcomed from its beginning the 5 member Association of South East Asian Nations. Growth both ways has been very rapid over recent years. Last year Australian exports to these countries were over $700m and imports were over $3 70m. We have initiated moves to establish consultative machinery with ASEAN in the trade and economic area. Such machinery would supplement the bilateral trade and economic relationship which are already well established with each of the countries. 
The Republic of Korea is rapidly growing in importance as a trading partner and is already a significant outlet for a number of Australian basic foodstuffs and industrial raw materials. I will shortly be visiting that country for the 1977 round of Ministerial trade talks.  Major steps  have recently been taken to strengthen our trade and economic relationship with India. A joint trade committee has met once and will meet again in New Delhi later this year. In the Middle East, increased incomes from oil have greatly enlarged the potential for Australian exports. We are seeing Australian expertise in the consultancy field winning business in the area. We have a joint ministerial commission with Iran and I led the Australian delegation to the first meeting in Tehran last August. Many opportunities for increased trade were identified and have been pursued. 
Though Australian trade with the countries of Latin America is still small there has been steady growth. New initiatives were taken by the Government last year to promote trade development with the area and these initiatives will be further built on this year. Brazil in particular has developed rapidly and has great potential. The Government is investigating ways to encourage a closer trade and economic relationship. 
Eastern Europe was identified as an area of vast potential for Australia as long ago as the late 1 960s. We have concluded trade agreements and provided for mixed government and commercial commissions with most of these countries. The accent is on these agreements providing an umbrella for the involvement of Australian businessmen. More recently some of these countries have indicated an interest in developing opportunities for wider commercial and industrial cooperation with Australian firms. I am pleased to see the interest this has evoked in significant sectors of the Australian business community. 
It is natural in a statement of this nature to concentrate on aspects made topical, by recent events. However, the process of change overseas calls for constant reappraisal of our own trade development programs. 
The Trade Commissioner Service continues to be the spearhead of our export development activity. There are now 57 trade posts overseas. The service has been adapted in line with requirements. In recent years representation has been strengthened in the Middle East, the centrally planned economies and Asia. Trade representation has been reduced in other areas. The Trade Commissioner Service is being constantly reviewed against the changing pattern of trade and trading prospects in individual markets. 
We also have other policies which facilitate the exporting process. We have an export incentives scheme. The Government has decided not to proceed with previously announced cut-backs in the scheme. Meanwhile we are continuing to review it in terms of its scope and effectiveness. We have the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation. This offers loans and insurance for longer term projects. New arrangements introduced last year provide Government support for funding of the Corporation's export finance facility by the trading banks. This has provided momentum to the facility. EFIC is now supporting successful contracts totalling some $100m with other tenders in the pipeline. Assistance such as this provides a valuable stimulus to the manufacturing sector. It has direct employment benefits. 
We have a trade promotion program which includes mounting displays, organising trade missions, the production of trade publications and arranging publicity for Australian goods and services overseas. Many of our trade displays serve to maintain the impetus in well-established markets. Whilst in New Zealand I visited such an Australian display at the Auckland Easter Show. Others complement efforts to open new markets. Recent examples of these are the well-received Australian exhibition in Moscow which I opened last year and the successful displays in Jeddah and Lagos. This financial year about 1000 Australian firms will have taken part in promotional activities organised by the Department of Overseas Trade. 
Australia is a rich country. In terms of natural wealth per capita, we are one of the richest nations in the world. We have the lush coastal belt with its opportunities for intensive agriculture, tropical and temperate. Much of our vast interior offers land suitable for grazing and cropping. The waters off our cost are amply stocked with marine life. Our subsoil is rich in mineral wealth. We have vast energy resources- even excluding uranium. Moreover, we have a small but highly skilled population with a long industrial tradition. But our wealth does not guarantee our future. World history bears testimony to this. There are many nations which have stagnated despite vast natural resources. The role of government is to formulate policies which harness our endowment. 
Trade is the catalyst to convert this natural and acquired domestic wealth into goods and services not easily available from our own resources. Responsible and outward-looking policies are required if we are to take full advantage of our potential. We have to mould our policies to a constantly changing world trading environment. 
The Government's role should be supportive. It should be confined as far as possible to maintaining or creating conditions which permit firms and individuals to seek out the best opportunities. We have to face the fact that complete global free trade is not the rule. The thrust of our trade policy is firstly to ensure a fair go for Australian goods and services abroad. Secondly, we must foster the freest possible flow of imports. Quite clearly this has to be tempered by our responsibilities to our own work force. Overrapid adjustment is an important factor in current high unemployment levels. But imports stimulate efficiency. We must always remember that exports in themselves are not used by Australians. We export in order to import- in order to improve and enrich our living standards. 
Trade policy calls for a careful balance between competing demands. There are calls for preferred treatment for this country, that country, or a particular grouping of countries. At the same time there are demands for fewer imports to make way for the employment of men and machines here in Australia. Clearly, it is impossible to meet all these demands. Furthermore, Australia is a member of a number of international agreements. These establish the rules for international trade. They carry with them obligations and commitments. A basic principle is that there should be no discrimination between trading partners. Australia has a record of honouring its commitments. Moreover, it is to our overall advantage that everyone sticks to the rules, and we must play our part in doing this. I present the following paper. 
International Trade- Ministerial Statement, 25 May 1977. 
Motion ( by  Mr McLeay  ) proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
I can agree with parts of the honourable member's question, but parts of it I would want to question further. Certainly I agree that Broken Hill has made a magnificent contribution to the Australian economy over a long period of time. In fact, Broken Hill is the basis of all our major industrial growth in this country, and I think we would all recognise that. As to what my colleague the honourable member for Macarthur said, I would not like to accept the interpretation of the honourable member for Darling. 
-The question from the honourable member asks for a lot of detail which I am not able to give. It also makes some assumptions to which I am afraid one cannot give an answer. However, regarding the detailed matters, I will be only too pleased to see that the honourable member is supplied with the information. It is true that we have very large deposits of uranium in this country. I am told that the proven reserves represent about 20 per cent of the present Western world 's supply, and we believe the figure could be considerably higher than that. This would give Australia a unique position if it were to be an exporter of uranium. Of course, it would have the opposite effect if we were not going to be an exporter. It puts us in a rather questionable position in relation to other countries which are desperate to meet their future energy requirements. I believe that Australia would have some questioning to do if it were to completely deny those people access to urnaium fuel. 
Another aspect on which I have made publiccomment is the objectives of  President  Carter's policy for peaceful use of uranium.  His  objectives are hinged on the development of the uranium cycle and the avoidance of any further progress with plutonium until alternative advanced forms of energy can be considered. The American Administration, indeed most conservation groups around the world, are very fearful of the proliferation of plutonium and therefore would like to concentrate merely on the present light water reactors using uranium fuel and avoid the question of reprocessing. I hope that at this stage reprocessing will not be considered by other countries around the world. Certainly it will not be considered by Australia. 
On the question of enrichment, during my discussions with  Dr Schlesinger  in the United States he gave me a firm indication that the American Administration would welcome Australia going into enrichment should we become an exporter of uranium. If we went into the enrichment of uranium, he saw advantage- this coincided with my point of view- in there being an inter-nation arrangement, with the countries which would be consumers of uranium and also suppliers of technology all participating. However, these answers that I give are somewhat hypothetical at this stage because the uranium question still has to be decided by the Government. We now have the second Fox report. It was presented on 25 May. The Government has set up a task group of departments to study the Fox report, under the chairmanship of the Department of National Resources. I hope that the group will be able to present a report for the Government to examine some time after the Prime Minister returns from overseas. 
I am not aware of any such direction being given to the permanent heads of departments. However, I will have this matter looked at and, if there is need for a statement to be made about how correspondence will be handled and any restrictions to be applied, I will take the necessary action. I would like honourable members to know that the Prime Minister has notified all Ministers that he would like them, where they are able to do so, to direct their letters back to members of this chamber and senators. Even if the correspondence has come from State members of Parliament, he has asked that the relevent member of this House be notified of the correspondence. Whether the honourable members concerned sit on the Opposition benches or on the Government side of the House, the Prime Minister has asked that they be treated equally in respect of that correspondence and that it not be signed by staff if that can be avoided. But it is by- 
Allow me to explain the position. It is very difficult for Ministers to sign all correspondence; but I think it is a very bad habit if Ministers start having their staff sign all the correspondence. There has to be a sensible balance and members of this House should not be slighted in respect of correspondence. 
During my visit to Brussels I had discussions with 2 principals of the European Economic Community, one being  Mr Brunner  who is the Minister for Energy in the European Economic Community. During the course of my discussions with him he suggested that there would be advantage in a bilateral agreement between Australia and the EEC giving Australia assured access for raw materials.  His  concern was principally with coal and uranium and he felt that this would be of advantage to Australia. I was very keen to have the matter further examined by officials to see what the possibilities were of arriving at some sort of agreement. During those discussions I suggested that while looking at the whole question the possibility of agriculture being included in such a bilateral agreement also could be examined. However, after talking with  Mr Hijzen  who is the Vice-Minister for International Trade the suggestion received a negative reaction once the question of agriculture came up and I have since learned that  Mr Brunner  has retracted somewhat his keenness to have bilateral agreement between Australia and the EEC. However, I am of the opinion now that there would be advantage to Australia in having a bilateral agreement. 
-Maybe the Leader of the Opposition feels that he has scored a point. However, I do not think that I have lost a point because this matter did need closer examination. If we can have a bipartisan attitude on this question it will be to the best advantage of Australia. 
After very deep consideration the Government has arrived at a decision as to what should be the general principles of a new arrangement for the pricing of indigenous crude oil. We will need to have discussions with sections of the industry, principally the producers and the refiners, to see whether these objectives can be achieved. There will be discussions individually and collectively with officials of the Department of National Resources. When those discussions are concluded the Government will then be in a position to make a decision and, I would hope, an announcement as soon as possible. 
I inform the House that the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  left Australia yesterday to represent the Government at Western Samoa's independence celebrations. During his absence the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  will act as Minister for Industry and Commerce. The Acting Minister will be represented in this chamber by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard).  I inform the House also that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  leaves Australia today for discussions in Europe, 
Canada and the United States. During his absence the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  will act as Minister for Transport. 
I think that it is an inelastic question, really. There is not much scope for the transport industries of Australia at the moment if we run out of portable fuel of which petroleum is by far the most important. A problem confronting many countries is how they might conserve their existing known reserves of oil. I think it is fair to say that if oil prices increase there is a tendency to conserve but in places such as Western Europe, where the price of petroleum has now increased to about $1.40 or $1.50 a gallon, the consumption of oil still seems to be at a very high level. The important thing to recognise is that if we have petrol prices or oil prices at artificially low levels this distorts the pattern of use of resources within a community. Only by keeping prices at the same relativity will we ensure that when people are making long term development plans they will use those forms of energy which will be the most reliable and the most economic over a long period. 
The honourable member asked what were the Government's plans relating to the pricing policy of crude oil. At the moment, consultations are due to start with the producers and the refiners. My Department will be in contact with these people today. As I announced last Friday, the Government has laid down the principles which it believes should apply to a domestic crude oil pricing arrangement. In the course of talking with these people, we shall try to work out what is the most efficient way of determining the exrefinery price for oil. In doing that, we shall be looking at the crude oil allocation scheme to see whether simplifications and improvements cannot be made. 
Recently, some changes were made to the import policy of the European Economic Community whereby it included buffalo meat in a new import arrangement for beef and veal. The impact of this was that buffalo meat, apart from attracting a 20 per cent duty, will attract also the variable levy that applies to beef. At the moment, that variable levy is running at approximately $2,000 a tonne. The levy and duty virtually will close off the European market for the sale of buffalo meat, in respect of which a very sizable industry has been built up in the Northern Territory. Something like $3m worth of buffalo meat was exported to West Germany last year. There have been abattoir improvements to conform with the hygiene and veterinary requirements of West Germany, but now all that will be of no avail if the European Economic Community maintains its very rigid policy on buffalo meat. Buffalo meat was always considered as game meat and did not incur the same penalties as beef and veal. 
We are taking action at Brussels to protest against this policy. We hope that we can get buffalo meat reclassified as game meat so that the industry will not have to pay this very high levy. This is just another indication of the EEC's agricultural policies having a very severe impact on Australian agricultural export industries. Since Britain joined the EEC in 1973, the performance of almost every item of agricultural export to the EEC, with the possible exception of wool, has declined very significantly. I hope that when the Prime Minister nas the opportunity to speak with leaders in Brussels and elsewhere in Europe, he will bring these points to the forefront and let them know that we do not appreciate our traditional trade being cut off by these measures. 
-My Department has brought to my notice that there were some newspaper reports of  Mr Lang  Hancock having received an early copy of the second Fox report. After examination of the matter the Department has said that there is no relationship between the statements put out by  Mr Hancock  and the findings in the report. It is quite obvious that he did not have a copy of the report. Very high security was maintained on the printing of this publication. The only Ministers who I am aware obtained an early copy of the report were the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the Minister for the Northern Territory and myself. There may have been other early copies. I received my copy on the Sunday, about 3 days before the report was presented to this House. It is highly doubtful that  Mr Lang  Hancock had any evidence of the report. Certainly he will be getting no prior knowledge of what any Government decision will be. 
I would not like to distinguish between periods of time. When some people talk it can be considered a very long time. In relation to our policy on tariffs and imports there has to be a sensible balance between competing demands in a community. We do have severe unemployment problems and they must be looked at in the light of present day circumcircumstances. Our overall policy is, of course, to reduce tariffs wherever possible. In respect of certain domestic industries we have had to impose some temporary restraints on imports but far too much has been made of this action as something which has impeded imports coming into the country. 
Any temporary restraints that have been imposed in recent years have permitted imports at almost the existing record levels and the total quantity of imports coming into Australia reveals that temporary restraints are being applied to only about 4'/5 per cent of imports. I certainly hope that there is not a need to impose any more import restraints but for the moment there are some severe employment problems that must be looked at. We have a responsibility to look after the social problems of the community. We will do that but hope that with the passing of time we will be able to remove these restraints and allow imports freer access to Australia. 
I do not know the circumstances of this matter regarding the United States of America but I would be very surprised if the United States had made a decision to sell any enriched uranium to India unless it had on the first hand received the strongest of provisos as to what would happen to that enriched uranium. It is true that India is not a signatory to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty but it is the desire of the United States to try to get as many countries as possible to become signatories and to abide by the rules laid down by that international organisation. Australia will be selling uranium only to those countries which are signatories to the NPT or which at present are classified as original weapon states. Under the NPT the 5 original weapon states are not necessarily signatories but they abide by the rules of the International 
Atomic Energy Agency. So there is a slight distinction between the weapon states- those which have been approved- and those which are not approved such as India which has produced a nuclear weapon in violation of the international regulations. 
-There is no foundation whatsoever in the report that I said that the Ranger project would be going ahead. 
It is correct that there was a Government decision that school leavers would not be entitled to unemployment benefits during the first 6 weeks after they left school. There has been a High Court decision that referred partly to this matter, but the High Court decision did not rule against that measure. Indeed, when the 
Government made this decision it left a degree of discretion in the hands of the Director-General of Social Services to make judgments as to whether payments should or should not be made. However, the whole question relating to this case will be thoroughly examined by the Government. 
I will take note of the question and give the honourable member a reply. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is a long history of discussion between the Australian and United States Governments on the question of a possible reduction in the United States duty on raw wool imports and, since December 1975, every appropriate opportunity has been taken to pursue the matter further. The interest of the Australian Government in this matter is well understood by the United States Government. 
The matter was raised in April 1976, during a visit to Australia by the then United States Secretary for Agriculture,  Mr Earl  Butz, and has since been discussed between Australian officials and officials of the United States Department of Agriculture. During my visit to the United States last month I took the opportunity to re-emphasise to the United States Secretary of Agriculture,  Mr Robert  Bergland, Australia's continuing interest in a reduction in the wool duty. 
The matter is also being pursued in the context of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations currently under way in Geneva. Under the notification and consultation procedures adopted for agriculture in the Negotiations, Australia has notified U.S. barriers to agricultural trade on a number of agricultural commodities, including the tariff on raw wool. Consultations were subsequently held in Geneva and the matter will be pursued further as the negotiations progress. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There were no import quotas, as such, operating at the time of the 25 per cent tariff reduction in 1 973. 
It is assumed that the honourable member's question refers to tariff quotas by which the quantities of goods admissible at a duty lower than the maximum level prescribed were limited. The relevant details are: 
I am not in a position to answer the honourable member's question. I have no information concerning the question that he asked me. I shall make some inquiries. If there is information that the House should have I shall see that it is given. 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Coal Industry Act 1946 I present the annual report of the Joint Coal Board for the year ended 30 June 1976 together with the financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on that report. Due to the limited numbers available reference copies of this report have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office and the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department of Overseas Trade is continually watching closely developments in EEC dairy policy. The Department receives detailed reporting on these matters from the office of the Australian Minister (Commercial) in Brussels. In addition, Trade Commissioners located in the member States of the EEC and in countries supplied by EEC exporters report on significant developments relating to EEC dairy policies and trade. 
The provision of export restitutions (subsidies) is not a new EEC policy but is a basic element of the Common Agricultural Policy which was established during the early 1 960s. Over the years, Australia has made repeated representations to the EEC concerning the magnitude and application of its export restitutions and has drawn attention in GATT to the disruptive effects they can have on our commercial markets. In the current round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations Australia is pressing for the negotiation of international arrangements designed to stabilise world prices for dairy products. In addition, in discussion with EEC representatives, Australia has sought to ensure that export restitutions are not set at levels which undercut prevailing market prices or disrupt markets of particular concern to us. 
and (4) All export sales of EEC butter currently attract export restitution payments. For some months until 5 February 1977 the nutter export restitution rate had been 1450 Units of Account per tonne (approximately $A 1,772 per tonne). This was increased by some 10 per cent on February 5 to 1 598 Units of Account per tonne ($A1 ,953 per tonne) and it has been widely reported that in late February 1977 an EEC trader concluded a sale of 30 000 tonnes of butter to the U.S.S.R. This sale was the subject of considerable discussion within the EEC and the butter export restitution was suspended briefly. However, the Commission subsequently approved sales of 1250 tonnes of butter to other Eastern Bloc countries. The restitution has since been restored, though exports are only being authorised to Eastern Bloc countries, including the U.S.S.R., provided the quantities in each transaction do not exceed 10000 to 15 000 tonnes. 
It is hoped that the EEC will be able to contain its butter restitutions to more realistic levels in the future. 
In this regard, it is of some interest that Australia recently sold 6000 tonnes of butter to the U.S.S.R. and New Zealand sold 3000 tonnes. The prices for both these transactions are believed to be above those for the EEC sale. 
Pursuant to section 2 1 of the River Murray Waters Act 19151 present the report of the River Murray Commission for the year ended 1976. 

 - Mr Speaker, I ask that questions be placed on the notice paper. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No new car has been ordered for the GovernorGeneral by the Government. 
, (3) and (4) Not applicable. 
PA YE Income Tax  (Question No.  820) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Amendment Bill 1977 was introduced on 26 May 1 977. 
No. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The works of art lent to Government House since 27 April 1 976 were acquired as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
14 February 1975. 
Programs were received from only two States: South Australia and Victoria on 1 1 June 1975 and 28 April 1976 respectively. 
(Acting Prime Minister)- The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 refer the honourable member to my answer to part (1) of question No. 914. 
, (3), (4) I refer the honourable member to my answer to part (4) of question No. 910. 
The future of uranium development and Australia's policy on nuclear safeguards and nuclear nonproliferation are among the most important issues facing the Government, the Parliament and the people of Australia today. Last week the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a major and important statement on Australian safeguards and nuclear non-proliferation policy. The Parliament now has before it the final report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. These are questions of supreme importance to Australia and to the international community. 
The energy crisis of the last few years has had profound implications for international relations and quite clearly is of major concern to the future economic growth and well being of mankind. The dwindling world supplies of petroleum have made it abundantly clear that the world must turn to other sources of energy.  President  Carter has crystallised this problem in a dramatic way in his energy policy announcement of 20 April. The central theme of that policy, which was acknowledged by the major industrial countries at the world economic summit meeting a few weeks ago, is that the world must adjust to the new realities in energy supply and usage. If it does not do so the world economy will be faced with precipitate and cataclysmic adjustments in the mid-1980s, the economic ramifications of which will be felt by developed and less developed countries alike. 
Australia is, of course, fortunate in that we are well endowed with indigenous energy resources. Our contribution and the part we can play in this international problem, is that of a reliable and dependable supplier of energy sources to those countries that are obliged to make the more painful and difficult adjustments than we ourselves will have to bear. Very clearly the major industrial countries must turn to an increased usage of coal and nuclear energy to satisfy their long term requirements. Australia has vast resources of coal and we have vast resources of uranium. The responsibility of Australia regarding these resources to the international community is real and clear. When it was in office the Whitlam Government clearly recognised these responsibilities. Our Government also recognises them. 
The use of uranium for nuclear electricity generation raises very special problems. These were, of course, very clearly recognised in the reports of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. Some of the problems have attracted increased international attention in recent times. As the Prime Minister pointed out in his statement to this Parliament on 24 May, clearly there has been an important statement by  President  Carter on nuclear energy in which he emphasised the need to restrain the spread of nuclear weapons or explosive capabilities without forgoing the tangible benefits of nuclear power. 
The Government has received the second report of the Ranger Inquiry. The inquiry is of course in the nature of an advisory body on environmental matters and has made a number of recommendations to the Government. But let me stress that ultimately it has to be the Government which will make the decisions on whether there should be further development. The Government was elected by the people of Australia and it therefore has the responsibility for decisionmaking in this matter. The Government, being the Government of Australia, must take the whole spectrum of national interests into account in making these decisions. It is not appropriate for me at this stage to comment in detail on the recommendations of the Fox inquiry. There are, however, a number of issues raised by the inquiry which are important to the debate. The importance of uranium in the world scene is wellrecognised. It is already important to the economies of many industrialised countries and it is being recognised by developing countries as vital to their prospects for economic growth. 
Already over 1 80 nuclear reactors are in operation, another 300 are under construction or on order, plus nearly 300 more are in the planning stages. This is a total of nearly 800. This is an enormous investment when one recognises that the cost of each power station is approximately $ 1,000m. In spite of the minimal exploration effort compared with that of other countries, the Alligator Rivers area, the subject of the inquiry, already accounts for nearly 20 per cent of the worlds known low-cost uranium reserves. More importantly in the world energy scene, the Alligator Rivers area is the worlds largest uncommitted uranium province. The development of that resource could make a similar contribution to Australia as did the development of the iron ore or coal industries in the 1960s. Naturally, development of these uranium resources would have a much greater impact on the economy of the Northern Territory. Such development would provide a firm basis for Northern Territory statehood. A greater exploration effort would certainly result in the region becoming even more vital to the world, to Australia, and to the Northern Territory. 
Putting aside these obvious benefits, let us have a look at what the Fox Inquiry itself had to say. The Fox Inquiry identified 5 problems associated with uranium development. But it said that the most serious danger is the possible proliferation of nuclear weapons. In its second report, the Inquiry set out its attitude on this issue as follows: 
We did not make a recommendation about what Australia should do about the danger. The risk was apparent and great, but international relations (including trade, diplomatic and defence considerations) were involved and a decision as to the correct strategy had to be made by those equipped to make it. We know enough of the considerations affecting resource strategy to be aware of its complexity and the impact it can have on world affairs. 
The Inquiry stated: 
That total renunciation of intention to supply was not justified, and was undesirable. 
That the options were either to proceed to supply as soon as practicable or to delay making a decision about supplying for a period of several years. In our view, a decision on the options depended largely on what was deemed to be the best strategy in relation to the matter of proliferation. 
In other words, the Inquiry outlined the issues, but left it to the Government to take the final decisions. These issues have to be seen in the context of international developments. I have particularly in mind the initiatives of the United States, Canadian and Australian Governments to the further strengthening of international safeguards arrangements. There have been extensive consultations between the 3 Governments on this matter. The recent initiatives of the Carter Administration are of particular importance. President Carter has committed the United States to the continued development of its program of light water reactors. At the same time, however, the United States Government is seeking to restrain the development of the plutonium economy. It has been made clear to Australia that it can play a central role in this area. Surely there can be no doubt that, if Australia were to make its uranium resources available, the strengthening of nuclear safeguards would be greatly enhanced. The possibility of premature development of the plutonium economy, with its implications for nuclear proliferation, could be avoided. It is only by acting now that we can contribute to long-term global stability. 
The recent statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on our policy on safeguards will make a substantial contribution towards achieving such stability. Where does the Opposition Labor Party stand on the issue? In an address to the United Nations the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  when he was Prime Minister reminded the world that the quest for resources was the oldest of all the causes of war. The Fox Inquiry itself stated: 
It may be that by supplying some countries we would help to relieve those pressures which can lead to armed conflict, nuclear or non-nuclear. 
But what is the Labor Party proposing to do? It wants to withhold uranium from the world thereby contributing to a situation which, in the view of the Leader of the Opposition, can only lead to an increase in global tension. Not only would such an attitude by the Labor Party lead to tensions regarding resources but would also contribute to what  President  Carter and many governments, including the Australian Government, are seeking to avoid, namely, the more rapid development of the plutonium economy with the attendant risk of nuclear proliferation. I was most disturbed at the scare-mongering tactics used by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  in commenting on the Prime Minister's safeguards statement. He rubbished the International Atomic Energy Agency. In rubbishing the International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards, the honourable member has said that there is an implied reliance in the Government's policy on IAEA safeguards which, he claims, the Fox Inquiry said were next to useless. I draw attention to the section entitled Conclusions in chapter 13 of the First Report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry which states: 
The Commission recognises that these defects, taken together, are so serious that existing safeguards may provide only an illusion of protection. However we do not conclude that they render valueless the concept  of  international safeguards. We believe it is both essential and possible to make safeguards arrangements more effective. 
The safeguards policy announced by the Prime Minister does, of course, go well beyond existing safeguard requirements. It is directed to achieving safeguards arrangements which are more effective. It requires conditions of control and use of Australian uranium over and above just the application of IAEA safeguards, the task of which is to verify that nuclear material is not diverted from peaceful uses. These cover: Careful selection of eligible customers for uranium; bilateral agreements with customer countries; fallback safeguards; prior Australian Government consent in relation to re-export, enrichment, and reprocessing; and physical security. This comprehensive approach is closely in line with the recent United States and Canadian policy and it builds on the recommendations of the First Fox Report. 
Of course, one important aspect of the comprehensive safeguards policy announced by the Prime Minister is a requirement for IAEA safeguards. Equally, this is an important requirement of the safeguards policy recently announced by  President  Carter. Like the United States, we believe that the IAEA should remain a central element in nuclear safeguards systems. We will collaborate with the United States and other countries in further strengthening the IAEA. 
I would most sincerely urge the honourable member for Blaxland, in the interests of mankind, not to rubbish the IAEA. The policy put forward in the Government's statement represents a practical, reasonable and effective safeguards regime to seek from countries wishing to import uranium from Australia under any future contracts. The policy goes beyond a mere acceptance by Australia of our international obligations as a party to the non-proliferation treaty. It constitutes a policy as stringent as that adopted by any nuclear supplier. It incorporates and builds on the findings of the first report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. It incorporates the kinds of ideas in relation to safeguards being put forward by the Leader of the Opposition, who, of course, was quite keen to see uranium developed during his period as Prime Minister. The policy which has been announced provides a firm basis on which we can work with others to strengthen international safeguards regimes in the world nuclear industry. Our policy and safeguards arrangements will be kept closely under review to take account of the future evolution of safeguards. 
Let us look at some of the attitudes and policies of the Labor Party and examine them in detail. Despite the conclusions of the first Fox Report and its recommendations on parliamentary debate, the Labor Party pre-empted any debate and formulated a fixed and unrealistic policy. So much for a parliamentary debate. Like the Government, the Labor Party has said that existing uranium contracts should be honoured. However, unlike the Government, which has not yet made any final decisions on new mining, the Labor Party pre-empted all rational discussion on these matters by saying: No new mining development is to take place. I would point out that the Labor Party has made this statement despite the Inquiry saying that a total refusal to supply would place Australia in clear breach of Article IV of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. The most charitable view that I can take of the Labor Party's attitude is that it has been prepared by a group of incompetents. On the one hand, it says Australia should honour existing contracts, but on the other hand it says: No new mining developments. I ask: How on earth does the Labor Party expect contracts to be honoured when there is not enough uranium at the existing mine at Mary Kathleen and in the Government's stockpile? Presumably Labor would purchase overseas or renege on those contracts which it said it would honour. 
I remind the Opposition that its platform says that Labor will work for enrichment of Australian uranium resources in plants which are located in Australia. How do you enrich uranium if you are not going to mine it? Yet here is the Labor Party's 1975 election policy. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  has alleged that this Government was intent on committing Australia to a supplier role in the Western world 's nuclear energy industry and that it has encouraged mining companies to enter longterm contracts for the supply of uranium, including to such countries as Iran. Obviously, the honourable member was asleep during his 3 years in Government; or perhaps he chose to ignore what his colleagues were doing. I would draw the attention of the House, including the Leader of the Opposition, to a joint Press statement of 2 November 1974 between the then Prime Ministers of Australia and Japan wherein it was said: 

 Mr Tanaka expressed his appreciation of the confirmation of supply by Australia to Japan of the contracted 9000 short tons of uranium . .  
Just 2 days earlier, the then Minister for Minerals and Energy, the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  had the following to say in a statement entitled  Northern Territory Uranium,  which he tabled in this House: 
When Australia negotiates further sales it will do so as a willing seller seeking willing buyers. In particular, we will ensure that our major trading partners-Japan, Italy and West Germany-obtain an equitable share of the uranium we have for export. 
Not long after these 2 statements were madeabout 2 months- the then Prime Minister, now Leader of the Opposition, went on a long tour of Europe where he talked about uranium, among other things. He was virtually peddling Australian uranium to all the interested governments of Europe. Presumably he found what we have found- that one of the first things foreign governments, companies and individuals want to talk to us about is Australia's uranium resources. Obviously, he was successful. 
In making the second reading of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  said: 
International assurances have been provided by Ministers that Australia will meet the uranium requirements of our major trading partners, which could amount to a total of about 100 000 tonnes of uranium . . . 
In the second reading speech on that Bill, Labor committed us to supplying 100 000 tonnes of uranium. It is intriguing that in alleging that the Government was encouraging sales, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition referred to only one country- Iran. Let us look at that question. I deny that this Government has encouraged mining companies to enter into long-term contracts for supplying uranium to Iran or any other country. However, I cannot make this denial on behalf of the previous Government. I would remind the House that in March 1975 the friend and colleague of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, namely, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  visited Iran in his then role of  Deputy  Prime Minister and Treasurer. He was accompanied by the then Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt.  At the end of their visit, they released a joint statement with the Iranians which included the following sentence: 
The Australian Ministers agreed that Iran would be given access to supplies of uranium from Australia under favourable conditions. 
I need add no more to the comments of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. This recital of statements by Ministers of the Labor Governmentstatements which would have been taken at their face value by our trading partners- lead me to ask: Where does the Labor Party stand on this question? Why is it that while in government Labor adopted a responsible position, whereas now in Opposition it is not only irresponsible but it is also incompetent? In office, the Labor Government committed Australia to supply 100000 tonnes of uranium. We have inherited that commitment. Now Labor wants to walk away. It wants Australia to abrogate Labor's commitment to supply 100 000 tonnes of uranium to our trading partners. What new information does Labor have that the Ranger inquiry did not have, that the Government does not have, which makes Labor say: No new mining. 
I believe that the best way to sum up the position presently facing Australia is by posing a series of questions. Is the Australian economy so strong that we can deny ourselves the clear economic benefits that would flow from the mining and export of uranium? Is our balance of payments so secure that we can forgo the considerable boost which uranium exports will bring? There are other wider questions of more farreaching consequences than the effects on the Australian economy. For example, will there be a nuclear power industry around the world regardless of whether Australian exports uranium? Would a refusal to supply uranium to countries which need it adversely affect our relationships with those countries? Will a refusal to supply create serious tensions internationally? Would we be in a better position to influence the course of the world uranium industry, especially in regard to waste disposal, to safeguards and to control of materials, instead of being right out of the industry? Not only has the Government to accept its responsibilities to the Australian people in finding the answers to these questions but also I believe the Australian people must answer them in a manner which will serve the best interests of mankind, not for tomorrow but for the next decade and for the next century. 
Motion (by  Mr Howard)-  by leave- agreed to. 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Blaxland from speaking for a period not exceeding 25 minutes. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that the International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) recommends a maximum premissible concentration in water for each of a large number of radioisotopes. The World Health Organisation recommends minimum standards for the quality of drinking water which are consistent with ICRP recommendations. Both sets of recommendations have been adopted in whole or in part by a number of countries, including Australia. The limits for radioactivity in drinking water for individual members of the public, based on the above recommendations, range from 3 microcuries per litre for tritium to 10-5 microcuries per litre for radium. 
There are no internationally accepted concentration limits for radioactivity in sea water or in waste discharged because resulting human exposure to radiation depends markedly on circumstances. The ICRP in 1965 recommended that where low activity wastes are discharged to the environment, the pathways by which the released radioactive materials may cause radiation exposure to the public be identified and the levels of radioactive content (not the concentrations as such) released be limited to ensure that individual exposures do not exceed recommended limits. 
The Research Establishment of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission discharges about nine million litres of waste water each month to the non-potable upper tidal reaches of the Woronora River. The average amount of radioactivity contained in this water is six to seven millicurie, of hard beta-emitters, 0.1 millicuries of aplha-emitters and three curies of tritium. As this is diluted by the nine million litres of waste water mentioned above, the levels of radioactivity involved are substantially less than the internationally accepted levels of maximum permissible concentration. 
I do not have any knowledge of radioactive waste that may be pumped into the Woronora River by other persons or organisations. 
Contamination of the Woronora River by the waste water discharged from the Research Establishment of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission could not prevent its safe use by humans. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am advised that radioactive wastes from nuclear reactors at Lucas Heights are disposed of in conjunction with other radioactive wastes from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission 's research establishment as follows: 
low level liquid waste is treated and discharged to the upper tidal reaches of the Woronora River; 
intermediate and high level liquid wastes and all solid waste are stored on the site; and 
gaseous waste is treated and discharged to the atmosphere. 
Saftey measures taken to ensure maximum protection from the effects of radioactive wastes at the Australian Atomic Energy Commission 's research establishment are: 
Low level liquid waste from all sources is collected in a drainage system completely separate from other waste water systems. After treatment to remove noxious contents, the liquid is combined with other treated waste water streams. This is sampled and analysed and then discharged, if the analyses have shown that any pollutants it contains do not exceed levels set by appropriate authorities of the N.S.W. Government, to the non-potable upper tidal reaches of the Woronora River. Levels of radioactive content are set out in a discharge authorisation approved by the N.S.W. Health Commission based on the recommendations of the International Commission on Radiological Protection on the exposure of the general public to ionising radiations; levels of radioactivity in the Woronora River are regularly monitored. 
Intermediate and high level liquid wastes containing radioactivity are collected separately from other liquid wastes at their point of origin. They are stored in special shielded containers in a secure area of the site and regularly monitored. 
All solid wastes that do, or may, contain radioactivity are collected separately from other solid wastes at their points of origin. Wastes containing low and intermediate levels of radioactivity are compacted into plastic-lined mild steel drums, which are sealed a stored in a secure weathertight building and regularly monitored. Wastes containing high levels of radioactivity are stored in shielded concrete or stainless steellined repositories, which are weatherproof and waterproof, in a secure area of the site and regularly monitored. 
Airborne waste from areas where radioactivity is, or may be, used is filtered or otherwise treated to remove radioactive materials other, than some gaseous radioisotopes. Gaseous material is discharged to the atmosphere through forced ventilation and high stacks. Levels of radioactive content are set out in a discharge authorisation approved by the N.S.W. Health Commission; discharges are monitored to ensure these levels are not exceeded. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Atomic Energy Commission has carried out since 1959 a comprehensive program of monitoring the levels of radioactivity in the Woronora River, in biological materials associated with it, and on beach and bottom sands. I am not aware of any other Federal departments or agencies that monitor the levels of radioactivity in the Woronora River. However, appropriate authorities of the N.S.W. Government may undertake such monitoring as they may require. 
2 ) The levels of radioactivity in materials associated with the Woronora River are measured at the following intervals: river water- 52 times per annum oysters- 4 times per annum beach sands- 4 times per annum bottom sands- 4 times per annum fish- 4 times per annum zostera- 4 times per annum 
The results of the measurements, and of other environmental surveying, for the period December 1959 to December 1974 are contained in AAEC reports E151, E151 Sup 1 , El 5 1 Sup 2, E 1 5 1 Sup 3, E246, E27 1 , E30 1 , E335 and E375 which are available in the National Library. Reports for 1 975 and 1 976 are in preparation, but the results show no significant variation from those of previous years. 
This work was summarised for the decade 1 960- 1969, and the significance of the results assessed, in a paper presented to the Fourth United Nations Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy in Geneva in 1971. This paper (A/Conf. 49/P/800) was published in Volume 1 1, page 34 1 , of the proceedings of the Conference, which is available in the Parliamentary Library. 
OECD Report on Australia: Disposable Incomes (Question No. 293) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Set out below are the requested details in respect of all products for which recorded information is available for the years 1974-75 and 1975-76. In the case of items for which information is not available, the item is included in the list with a note concerning the lack of relevant detail. The annual value of recorded imports under items on which a concession involved a reduction in duty was, on average, approximately $32m whilst for those items where the concession involved binding of rates at zero level against future increase the figure was $43m. It should be noted that in international trade negotiations binding of rates is considered to be a meaningful concession in so far as it provides a measure of stability in protective levels. Whilst it is not possible to quantify benefits accruing from such concessions it is considered that Australia's contribution in the Tropical Products Negotiations was a significant one, based on items in which developing countries had expressed interest. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Upon receipt of the report of the inter-departmental working party on interpreters and translators the Prime Minister wrote on 2 1 February 1977 to all State Premiers asking them to examine the report and to forward any comments they may have on the best way of meeting the needs of the community for interpreter/translator services. No reference was made to any particular recommendations of the working party. 
Premiers of the following States have submitted substantive replies on the dates indicated: 
Western Australia- 7 April 
Tasmania- 28 April 
South Australia-6 May 
Queensland- 10 May 
Victoria- 26 May 
and (4) The Government will give further consideration to the recommendations in the Report, including these proposals when the views of the Premiers are available. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (6) The information is not maintained in the form sought by the honourable member. To obtain it would require considerable effort and man hours, which I am not prepared to authorise. 
If the honourable member wishes to have information in respect of some specific issue, however, I shall examine his request to see if this can be provided. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It has not been necessary for State and Federal Ministers to meet concerning the Report of the River Murry Working Party; as this report was agreed to by a Steering Com.mitttee of Federal/State Ministers in October 1975. As a result of correspondence between the Prime Minister and Premiers, agreement was subsequently reached on the report's recommendations in October 1976. 
I understand that as part of an on-going program, a number of studies directly concerned with the planning and management of the water resources of the River Murray are currently being undertaken by the River Murray Commission. These include an investigation, now nearing completion, into the problems associated with limited river channel capacity between Tocumwal and Echuca, improvement to the computer model which simulates the operation of the River Murray system of storages, and the development of procedures for the future hydraulic operation of Dartmouth Dam. A study of the management problems of the floodplain between Hume Dam and Yarranga Weir was recently completed for the River Murray Commission and this report has been issued to interested members of the public.  The Inventory of Water Resources Research in Australia 1976,  published by my Department on behalf of the Australian Water Resources Council (AWRC) also lists a number of State research projects concerned with the River 
Murray system. The inventory also includes a number of water projects being funded under the Commonwealth's Water Research Fund, the results of which could have indirect application to the River Murray. 
As indicated in the Working Party's report, the Biological Conservation Committee was not in a position to report on its terms of reference and the governments agreed that the work of this and of other committees would be superseded by committees which have since been established by the River Murray Commission, including an Environmental Study Committee. 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided to Senate question No. 310 (1)  (Hansard,  21 April 1977, p. 942 ). Commonwealth funds are not involved. 
Water quality matters raised in Professor Clark's submission were taken into account by the Working Party in the formulation of its recommendations which have now been accepted by the governments concerned. As agreed to by the governments, some other matters outside the Working arty 's terms of reference relating to the River Murray Commission's legal status and staffing and various machinery matters have been considered by the River Murray Commission. The Commission has instructed its Special Working Group, convened by Professor Clark, to identify the necessary amendments to the Agreement. Further issues of longer term policy significance raised in the submission, such as flood mitigation, river management and environmental protection, will require more detailed examination by the appropriate committees that have been established by the River Murray Commission. 
The four governments have agreed to proceed initially with legislative amendments relating to water quality matters and the additional matters raised in Professor Clark's submission and referred to in (5) above. The Special Working Group referred to in (5) above will also consider amendments to the River Murray Waters Agreement to enable the River Murray Commission to make recommendations on any further changes to the Agreement which might be necessary. 
Yes, with the River Murray Commission assuming the responsibilities of the working party. The necessary amendments to the Agreement are proceeding as indicated in (5) above. 
No. I refer the honourable member to the answer provided in Senate question No. 310, PRT (2). The Special Working Group is proceeding with its task as a matter of urgency. 
On 1 June 1977  (Hansard,  page 2279) the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  asked me a question, without notice, concerning possible activities in Australia of the KGB, with particular reference to the circumstances surrounding the continued presence in Australia of a Russian national,  Mr Cheshev.  The following is in answer to the honourable member's question: 

 Mr Cheshev was a member of a Russian student pany who sought to stay in Australia in April.  His  case is currently being examined by the Depanment of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs with a view to considering his application for permanent residence. 
When  Mr Cheshev  's case became known to the Embassy, the Embassy sought permission from the Depanment of Foreign Affairs to interview  Mr Cheshev.  The request was initially referred to  Mr Cheshev  who  refused,  out subsequently agreed to an interview. A condition was that the interview take place in the presence of Australian Foreign Affairs officers, including a Russian speaking officer. The interview took place and  Mr Cheshev  maintained his intention to remain in Australia. Embassy officials who participated in the interview were  Mr Raina  and  Mr Voskaresensky. 
The Government has no information to indicate that  Mr Raina  has previously been posted in the United Kingdom. As the Prime Minister recently reminded the House the Government looks to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to provide timely advice on all matters which might affect the security of this country, including improper activities by any foreign intelligence service in Australia. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia is actively participating in ongoing international discussions concerning a new International Wheat Agreement to replace the existing Agreement which is due to expire on 30 June 1978. 
Since 1974, a great deal of preparatory work has been carried out on mechanisms which might form the basis of a new Wheat Agreement. Most of this work has been undertaken in the International Wheat Council in London but discussions are also proceeding in Geneva in the context of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations. Australia is participating in these discussions. 
There is widespread acceptance that the objectives of a new International Wheat Agreement should include the stabilisation of world wheat markets in order to help ensure adequate supplies at reasonable prices and improved world food security. However, for a number of technical and other reasons, including differences of approach among some of the major participants, it has not yet been possible to progress to the stage of actual negotiations. 
The concept of reserve stocks to help stabilise the world supplies and prices and improve world food security has been discussed in some detail. Australia has pointed out that an arrangement providing for the accumulation and release of stocks would need to contain measures to safeguard commercial trade, if such an arrangement is to have reasonable prospects of success on a continuing basis. We are particularly conscious of the need to avoid undue risks that a world stockpile of grains might depress world market prices to unacceptably low levels, thereby prejudicing the Agreement itself and, importantly, the objective of helping to ensure continuing stability of supplies in the interests of the world food security objectives. 
Since February this year, the question of new international arrangements for wheat has been the subject of discussion on a number of occasions between Australian officials and senior representatives of the new United States administration and the Canadian Government. In March,  Mr D.  H. McKay, Secretary of the Department of Overseas Trade, explored American and Canadian thinking on the subject during a visit to Washington and Ottawa. At a meeting in Ottawa on 2 1 April, the four major wheat exporters (U.S.A., Canada, Australia and Argentina) concluded that there appeared to be a large degree of agreement between importers and exporters on the need for the establishment of a new International Wheat Agreement. 
During a visit to Washington and Ottawa later that month I had useful discussions on wheat matters with U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Bergland and other senior Administration officials and with  Mr Otto  Lang the Minister in charge of the Canadian Wheat Board. I stressed that Australia favoured the early negotiation of a new IWA and that we would continue to play a constructive role in seeking to achieve a new arrangement in the interests of the world community. 
A second meeting of major wheat exporters was held in Washington on 27 May and a further meeting is expected to take place following the 80th Session of the International Wheat Council on 28-30 June. (2)On 10 May 1 977 the USDA estimated total U.S. wheat production for the year ending 30 June 1978 at55.8 million tonnes some 2.6 million tonnes below the previous crop. Production of winter wheat which is now being harvested was estimated at around 40.2 million tonnes, a decrease of 6 per cent over the previous year's crop. 
Plantings of spring wheat in the United States have recently been completed and are estimated at 6.2 million ha, or 14 per cent below last year. Plantings of barley, however, have increased by15 per cent to 4.3 million ha and barley production in 1977 could reach 9.8 million tonnes, 20 per cent up on 1976. 
The International Wheat Council has forecast wheat production in Canada at between 16 and 20 million tonnes which is considerably down on 1976 production of 23.5 million tonnes. Plantings of barley are expected to be 1 1 per cent above the 4.33 million ha crop in 1976 which produced around 13.0 million tonnes. 
The North American wheat crop in 1977 is, therefore, likely to be down substantially on 1976, but the outturn could still be large, given favourable weather conditions. The IWC considers that the world supply-demand situation for wheat in 1977-78 should be reasonably comfortable unless there is a crop failure in one of the major wheat producing regions. 
With production increases of barley expected in the United States, Canada and other major course grain producing countries, world barley production in 1977 should be near to the 1976 record of 715 million tonnes and the supply situation would appear to be adequate in 1977-78. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. However the Australian Transport Advisory Council, which comprises all State and Commonwealth Transport Ministers, has considered the general question of motor vehicle emissions, as well as the particular problem of lead in petrol. As a prerequisite to the formulation of a policy on the matters raised in the Sth Report, consultations will be held with the relevant State authorities on these issues. 
and (4) The Committee on motor vehicle emissions, which advises ATAC, has been asked to consider the relative costs of alternative methods of meeting the precautionary recommendations of the National Health and Medical Research Council on emissions of lead to the atmosphere. This work is currently proceeding. The Government is concerned that environmental and health objectives should be achieved at minimum cost to the community and will continue liaison with the States and the industry to this end. 
The matter of how the Government should proceed to obtain information about the industry was raised in the 4th Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. It is a matter which is receiving consideration by the Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Responsibility for plans for the protection of persons and property in the Lucas Heights area, and their co-ordination, rests with the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. The Commission has had, for many years, arrangements with N.S.W. authorities for the application of appropriate countermeasures for the protection of persons and property (including evacuation as a last resort) in the areas around the Research Establishment should they become necessary. The co-operating N.S.W. authorities are the Police Department, Board of Fire Commissioners, State Emergency Services and Health Commission. 
The emergency plans are reviewed, in the light of changing circumstances, at meetings of a Local Liaison Working Party which is composed of representatives of the N.S.W. authorities mentioned above ana officers of the Commission. 
The existing arrangements with the NS.W. authorities are being incorporated into a single document entitled "A Plan to Cope with Accidents at the Research Establishment". This document is being prepared by the Commission in consultation with the authorities mentioned above. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) In the Communique issued on 10 October 1976 at the end of the Prime Minister's visit to Indonesia,  President  Soeharto and the Prime Minister announced that they had agreed that Australian and Indonesian officials should meet to resolve the problems of the East Timorese refugees who came to Australia without their families. The following meetings have taken place since then: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)I have no information to give the honourable member on this matter. 
Because of renovations being carried out at Admiralty House, the Governor-General has stayed variously at Kirribilli House when Admiralty House was not available and at hotels in Sydney when neither Admiralty House nor Kirribilli House was available. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Governor-General left Australia on 25 April 1 977 and is due to return on 1 5 June 1977. 
The Governor-General will be attending the Silver Jubilee celebrations in London. 
The Governor-General will take a period of mid-term leave while overseas. As is normal practice, this will be at official expense. 
-The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
No. 
There are a vast number of ways- certainly too many to enumerate- in which Australians are entitled to express their opposition to legislative or policy decisions. 
The Government always welcomes reasoned and constructive criticism of any legislative or policy decision, and as a matter of course considers all written submissions received. 
-(Acting Prime Minister)-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In answer to the honourable member's question I refer him to the statement on this subject given by the Prime Minister on 24 May in the House of Representatives which may be found in the House of Representatives  Hansard,  pages 1695-1696, of that date. 
-(Acting Prime Minister)- The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
I do not propose to comment publicly upon matters concerning the domestic affairs of another country. 
CIA: Conduct of Foreign Companies in Australia  (Question No.911) 
-(Acting Prime Minister)- The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Australian law applies equally to all foreign based companies in Australia. 
U.S. Companies in Australia: CIA Activities (Question No. 912) 
(Acting Prime Minister)- The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I do not propose to comment publicly upon matters concerning the domestic affairs of another country. However, the activities of all foreign based companies in Australia are subject to Australian law. 
U.S. Companies in Australia: Breaches of Privacy (Question No.  913) 
(Acting Prime Minister)- The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In cases of alleged invasions of privacy, from whatever source, Australian citizens can have recourse to the law currently applicable. However, the matter of privacy, as the honourable member will be aware, has been referred as a specific reference by the Attorney-General to the Australian Law Reform Commission under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Kirby.  His  report will be tabled in the Parliament and no doubt subjected to considerable public discussion and debate. In the circumstances, I am not prepared to authorise the considerable effort and man hours involved in answering the honourable member's question. 
Ashland Oil Inc. U.S. A.: CIA Activities (Question No.  914) 
(Acting Prime Minister)- The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Valvoline (Australia) Pty Ltd is incorporated in N.S.W. and Australian Carbon Black Pty Ltd is incorporated in Victoria. Details of the registered holders of the snares in those companies is on public record in the Corporate Affairs Offices in those States. 
and (3) See answer to part (4) of question 910. 
Ashland Oil Inc. U.S. A. -CIA Activities (Question Nov  915) 
(Acting Prime Minister)- The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) Messrs J. Andrews, S. B. Coco, W. Creeley, F. S. Detheridge, R. M. MacDonald and R. Yancy were directors of Australian Carbon Black Pty Ltd in 1 976.' 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to part (1) of question No. 914 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The decision to prosecute in this particular case was taken by officers of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. Consistent with other prosecutions for custom offences, the decision was based on the evidence obtained during an investigation. A number of Ministers were aware of developments in this matter. However, I am informed that no advice was sought of Ministers by officers of the Department in relation to the proposed prosecution, nor was any such advice offered. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Prime Minister has received a copy of the Brisbane City Council's submission to the Queensland Government in regard to financial proposals for sponing facilities for the Games, plus supporting letters. 
) The City Council 's submission canvassed a number of cost options for providing sporting facilities. It is understood that the Council supports a Commonwealth contribution of up to $ 10m for sporting facilities. 
As indicated in the answer to question Nos 492 (Senate  Hansard,  25 May, page 1405) and 497 (Senate  Hansard,  26 May, page 1519), further information on accommodation and administration costs is required to allow the Commonwealth to determine the nature and extent of any contribution it may wish to make towards the staging of the 1982 Games. 
Pre-school Funding (Question No. 1035) 
by leave- It was announced in the Budget Speech earlier tonight that the Government is introducing new arrangements for the pricing and taxation of crude oil produced from presently known Australian fields. For several years I have been arguing that energy in Australia is unrealistically priced. The price of petrol here is less than half the price in countries like Japan, France and Italy. While consumers would welcome the continuation of this situation, the fact is that it cannot continue. The quadrupling of international oil prices in 1973-74 ushered in a new and disturbing realisation of the essential role oil plays in the standard of living the world either enjoys or aspires to. Events since then have reinforced that realisation. 
Oil plays a key role in the transport on which the modern world depends. It is also the energy source for which we face the most critical shortages. President Carter's energy statement contained the estimate that on current trends, demand would overhaul supply some time around the mid 1980s. Nobody seriously questions this forecast. If this situation is permitted to occur, the market price for oil will be anyone's guess. Governments the world over must make every attempt to forestall such a demand-supply squeeze. They must take active steps to mitigate the effects of dearer oil- a certainty whether or not world demand outpaces availability. Oil supplies 45 per cent of the world's energy needs and 47 per cent of Australia's. It will remain for decades the most important energy source. It is at the heart of any country's energy policy. 
I am currently preparing a statement which will deal comprehensively with all forms of energy. That statement will be presented to the House as soon as practicable. The matters discussed in this present statement form an integral part of that forthcoming statement of energy policy. For Australia, our central energy policy objectives must be threefold. Firstly, we must encourage oil exploration and development. Secondly, we must encourage greater economies of energy usage and encourage people to use other fuels in preference to oil. Thirdly, we must foster a more intensive search for alternatives to oil. Each of these objectives requires the price to be increased. That is why I have constantly argued that we should move gradually and predictably towards higher oil prices. This approach allows us to avoid the large, abrupt, destabilising increases which would otherwise occur. 
Price is not the only instrument available to promote our policy. Clearly the Government can and will exhort consumers to reduce their usage of oil products in the national interest. But realistic pricing remains critical to the success of a policy. Energy saving measures like, for example, insulation of houses, need to become recognised money-saving propositions. Higher priced oil will also assist in bringing about the economic introduction of alternative energy technologies such as coal conversion and solar power. A higher price will raise the return on successful exploration. An improved return on investment provides a strengthened encouragement for exploration; moreover, we would expect that higher earnings by existing producers will be ploughed back into further exploration here in Australia. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has given a general outline of the new arrangements. I will now describe in some additional detail the pricing, allocation, and levy arrangements, and deal briefly with the question of their likely impact. As already announced, the Government has decided to implement a scheme which will take the price of indigenous crude oil from presently known fields in the direction of import parity. This will be achieved through a uniform method of price determination. The new scheme will apply to each presently known field in Australia and will apply from midnight tonight. Producers will receive die import parity price, determined by the Government every six months, for a specified part of their production. Import parity will be received for either the first six million barrels of oil produced from each field per annumcalled the 'basic allowance'- or a proportion of production per annum, rising over time according to a specified schedule, whichever is the greater in any particular case. The schedule is 10 per cent from tomorrow until the end of the present financial year, rising to 20 per cent for the financial year 1978-79, 35 per cent for financial year 1979-80 and 50 per cent for financial year 1980-81. 
For all additional production from each field or new development, the producers will receive the price which was current up to the time of the introduction of the new arrangements. That is $2.33 per barrel in the case of the Bass Strait fields and $2.88 per barrel in the case of the Barrow Island field. All production from the Moonie and Alton fields and other small fields will, in practice, receive import parity prices, as the output from those fields will be well below six million barrels per annum. 
The Government will review the position before June 1981 to decide the rate at which the further progression to full import parity for presently known fields should take place. Oil from fields discovered after 14 September 1975 will continue to receive full import parity. The present crude oil absorption policy, whereby all crude oil produced in Australia is required to be processed in Australian refineries, will be continued. Indigenous crude oil, with its high yield of light fractions, is ideally suited to the local market demand. The export of the indigenous crude oil would therefore simply mean the exchange of our own oil for another, probably less suitable, imported oil. The existing embargo on exports of crude oil will therefore remain in force. The Government is, in any case, under an obligation to continue the present crude oil absorption policy and associated allocation arrangements until at least 1980. This is because most refineries have undertaken considerable plant investment on the basis of that policy and to prematurely abandon it or phase it out would arbitrarily disadvantage a substantial section of the oil refining industry. 
The import parity price will be set every six months by the Commonwealth Government. It will be calculated on the basis of the price of Arabian light oil at the nearest refinery port, adjusted to allow for an appropriate quality differential. This differential will take account of the suitability of indigenous crude oil for the local market. For the period until 3 1 December 1977, the import parity price will be set at $13 per barrel. Officers of the Department of National Resources will be having discussions with the oil industry in the near future to determine the precise basis on which the import parity price should be calculated in future periods. The new pricing arrangements give a consistent set of ground rules applicable to all present and future developments in existing fields. They will remove any apparent arbitrariness inherent in the previous method of price determination. The basic allowance will apply to the combined existing developments in each presently known field and to each substantial new development in such fields. The figure of six million barrels per annum has been selected to ensure that new developments will immediately receive import parity prices for all or most of their production. It will ensure firstly that different producers are treated equitably and, secondly, that adequate recognition is given to the fact that oil from the smaller fields is typically more costly to produce than oil from the larger fields. 
As already announced, the crude oil levy will be increased by $ 1 per barrel to $3 per barrel. The levy will be deducted from the price for import-parity oil, and added to the price for below-import-parity oil. In effect, therefore, producers will pay the levy on import-parity oil, and consumers will pay the levy on belowimportparity production. The likely effects on prices, company profits, and Government revenues of the new arrangements were mentioned in the Budget Speech. The new arrangements will increase the prices received by existing producers approximately as follows: For the remainder of 1977, the average price for all Bass Strait fields already in production, net of the crude oil levy, will be about $3.20 per barrel. For Barrow Island, the average price received will be about $6.60, and for Moonie the price received will be $10 per barrel. If world prices rise at 6 per cent per annum and no further changes are made in the levy arrangements, corresponding net prices by 1979-80 could be of the order of $6.20, $7.30 and $11.60 for Bass Strait, Barrow Island and Moonie respectively. 
The net prices in the early period would be somewhat lower than the prices which would have resulted from acceptance of the precise Industries Assistance Commission recommendations. The new arrangements will immediately increase the average price into Australian refineries of all oil including imports by an estimated 25 per cent. While the actual extent of any petroleum product price increase will be a matter for the Prices Justification Tribunal, the resultant increase will probably be of the order of 2c per litre on the price of regular motor spirit. On this basis, the recommended price of regular motor spirit in Sydney would rise to approximately 1 9c per litre. 
The Government is, of course, most reluctant to increase the price of petroleum products to Australian consumers. But the option of maintaining indefinitely a low price for the bulk of Australian refinery feedstocks is simply no longer available to us. It needs to be recognised that the Australian consumer has been paying less than the real value of the petroleum he uses. Furthermore, over the phasing-in period he will continue to pay less than in most overseas countries. Compared to the new likely price of 19c per litre in Sydney, the French motorist pays 39c, the Japanese motorist pays 38c, and the German, Swedish and British motorists all pay over 30c. Petrol prices in Australia remain considerably below the 25c per litre in New Zealand and are now at roughly the same level as Canadian prices. Only the United States among major Western countries has cheaper petrol than Australia and the thrust of  President  Carter's energy policy is to increase the price of oil products to American consumers. 
It must be recognised that our decision to move towards import parity pricing for known crude oil merely hastens the inevitable. In the next few years, production from the Bass Strait fields will begin to decline as those fields approach the end of their economic life. These fields comprise 90 per cent of present day Australian production. Hence oil produced overseas, imported at prevailing world prices, will account for an increasing proportion of the input to Australian refineries. Furthermore, should more oil be discovered in Australia, it is already established Government policy that that oil will be priced at full import parity. The new arrangements will effectively increase the amount of oil available from presently known fields. There are over 400 million barrels of oil, or two years worth of consumption, locked up in fields and not economically extractable at current prices. Australia cannot afford to leave this oil m the ground. The basic allowance of 6 million barrels per annum of oil at import parity prices for each new development will provide an assurance that these reserves can be extracted. 
There are several considerations other than basic energy policy considerations which the Government has necessarily had to take into account when formulating its new policy. One is the Government's overriding aim of lowering the rate of inflation and raising the level of activity in the economy generally. There is a need also to avoid the significant dislocation which could be expected to follow as particular industries suffered large cost increases. It is for these reasons that the Government has decided to increase prices gradually rather than all at once. The new arrangements will result in very substantial increases in the profits of each of the current producers. For this reason the Government is considering the application of a resources tax to these profits. Accordingly the Government will be seeking early discussions with the relevant oil producing companies on these matters. Any decision on the future of the crude oil levy will be taken in the light of decisions on the resource tax. 
The Government considers that the new pricing arrangements represent the most appropriate way of bringing Australian oil prices to world levels. The new taxation arrangements will aim to achieve an appropriate division between producers in the form of net returns, and the Government- and hence the taxpayer- in the form of taxation revenue. Over the transitional period, the Australian consumer of petroleum products will, for some years, be able to pay prices based on crude oil prices below the price of imported crude. Many other countries in a less fortunate position than Australia have had to adjust to the hard reality of high oil prices very rapidly. Our own oil reserves will allow us to adjust gradually, and consequently at less cost in terms of disruption. But we must take advantage of the time these reserves have allowed us to adjust our oil consumption habits and to prepare substitutes for imported oil. 
I present the following paper: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Nominations for the addition of goods to Schedule A of NAFTA are received and exchanged by both Governments on a regular basis. In Australia the Department of Overseas Trade is primarily responsible for the preliminary examination of such nominations, in close consultation with the Department of Industry and Commerce and Primary Industry depending on the nature of the goods under consideration. Acting on the advice of the relevant Department that, on a prima facie basis, inclusion of the goods in Schedule A would not be detrimental to the particular local industry, and provided the nomination is acceptable to the New Zealand Government, the proposal is widely advertised in both countries. In Australia an advertisement giving notice of nominations under consideration is placed in all the major daily newspapers and a considerable number of industry associations, lobby groups and interested individuals receive a circularised notification of the proposals. Interested parties have a period of 60 days within which they may comment either in support of or in opposition to the nominations. In the event that objections to particular nominations are substantiated, by reference to the Industries Assistance Commission, if necessary, the goods are not added to the Schedule. 
As outlined above considerable efforts are made by several Government Departments to acquaint interested parties with proposals for the addition of goods to Schedule A of NAFTA. The procedures currently followed have been in operation since the Free Trade Agreement came into effect in 1966 and the method of notification of proposals is consistent with that normally adopted in similar circumstances by other Government Departments and agencies. While the Departments concerned endeavour to directly contact known industry organisations, it is not always possible to ensure that every interested party is consulted in this way. However, all nominations are subject to public scrutiny for two months and it is considered this provides ample opportunity for comment. 
In view of the fact that mushrooms are already traded duty free between Australia and New Zealand, it was not expected that inclusion of the goods in Schedule A would be detrimental to the local industry. The proposal to include fresh mushrooms in Schedule A of NAFTA was publicly notified on 17 March 1977. Subsequently, the Secretary of the Australian Mushroom Growers' Association has had frequent contact with officers of the Department of Overseas Trade and, as a result of these discussions, the inclusion of fresh mushrooms in Schedule A has been deferred. In accordance with normal procedure it is proposed that a reference will be made to the Industries Assistance Commission for enquiry and report as to whether the inclusion in Schedule A of these goods would be detrimental to the Australian industry. 
The following is the answer to the honourable member's question: 
Departmental officers have examined the United States legislation. 
The Royal Commission on Petroleum did not specifically give attention to the American legislation and this matter was therefore not covered by the relevant interdepartmental committee. 
Energy conservation measures are being actively examined by the National Energy Advisory Committee. Approaches have been made to the Australian motor vehicle industry and further consultations are scheduled to take place in the near future. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (6) See the answer to House of Representatives question No. 1003 (Weekly  Hansard  for 2 June 1977, page 2531). 
Overseas Travel by Departmental Staff (Question No. 1005) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (6) I refer the honourable member to the reply which I gave as Acting Prime Minister in answer to Question No. 1003. 
Overseas Travel by Departmental Staff (Question No. 1009) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)1 understand that on 1 1 November 1976 the Director of the Northern Territory Reserves Board, which was at that time responsible for the Ayers Rock- Mount Olga National Park, advised the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation that the condition of the park was such that essential interim work needed to be done as a matter of urgency and estimated it would cost between $2.28m and $3. 561m exclusive of work on the main road to the park and the relocation of the airport. 
No. 
-There has been a lot of concern about the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd over the last year, what with higher costs of production and the low world price of copper. I am well aware of the continuing representations and concern of the honourable member about this mining company because its operations have a great bearing on the towns of Gormanstown and Queenstown where some 5000 people are completely dependent upon its operations. There also is a flow-on effect to that whole region in Tasmania and to the smelter at Port Kembla. Therefore it has been a matter of great concern to the Government to try to maintain this operation. Fortunately, during the year the copper price did increase and this, together with the depreciation of the Australian dollar, did give the company a bit of a lift. However, in the last 2 months we have seen a complete collapse of copper prices so on 4 August we decided to ask the IAC to recommend within 60 days what assistance could be given to the copper ore and concentrate industry. In the meantime the Mount Lyell company said that it could not continue for another 60 days and that it would have to close. Under those circumstances negotiations were entered into with the Tasmanian Government to give the company support for that period on a dollar for dollar basis to meet its cash shortfall. It is my understanding that this will enable the company to keep operating until the report is brought forward and a decision is made on it. 
by leave- The purpose of this statement is to bring to the attention of the House the measures being taken by the Government to assist the States in the development of their water resources. Even within the current difficult budgetary constraints, the Commonwealth has approved grant funds totalling $6.66m to the States. This will be matched by State funds. It will augment State programs concerned with the assessment of surface and underground water resources and their quality. In addition, about $390,000 will be available in 1977-78 for water research projects in priority areas. Such areas have been identified by water operating authorities throughout Australia through the Australian Water Resources Council. The Commonwealth will also be providing $50,000 towards an action program to control a serious water hyacinth infestation along the Gwydir River. New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia will contribute a similar sum to the cost of the action program in 1977-78. This infestation continues to be a potential threat to our highly productive irrigation areas along the Murray and its tributaries. 
The Government also recognises the appropriateness from a national perspective of being involved in the development of water resources and flood mitigation projects in the States. The 
Commonwealth will continue to meet its obligations to the States in respect of assistance authorised under previous programs. I have now been authorised to bring forward a new national water resources program as a basis for providing assistance for projects identified by the States as having top priority. In the present difficult budgetary circumstances, the Commonwealth will not be allocating funds for individual water resources projects. However, in 1977-78 $lm of grant funds has been allocated for the New South Wales coastal rivers flood mitigation program. These grants will be allocated on the same funding basis with State and local authorities as in previous programs. We recognise that it is urgent to ensure continuity of work on flood mitigation projects along these rivers. The States will be duly notified of the details of the new national water resources program. 
I also draw the attention of the House to the current inquiry by the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources. This Committee is examining the role of the Commonwealth in the assessment, planning, development and management of Australia's water resources. I would hope that the report on the inquiry will provide valuable guidance to the Government on these important matters. It will be apparent from this statement that the Government attaches considerable significance to the involvement of the Commonwealth in the orderly and efficient management of the nation's water resources, having full regard to the constitutional responsibilities in these matters. I present the following paper: 
Commonwealth Involvement in Australia's Water Resources- Ministerial Statement, 17 August 1977. 
Motion (by  Mr Macphee)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
) To the first part: Yes. To the second part: 
Since it was not considered that there was any basis, at that stage in the negotiations, for a change in Australia's position on the Common Fund it was not necessary to send futher instructions to the Australian delegation. Moreover, the EEC initiative at the Common Fund Conference was overtaken by events when the developing countries insisted that a Conference resolution contain elements which were unacceptable to virtually all the developed countries. 
As for the second part of (3 ) above. 
As a major commodity producer and exporter. Australia has always recognised the need to try to improve the conditions of international commodity trade. In particular, at the recent Negotiating Conference on a Common Fund, Australia made it clear that she recognises the need for finance for buffer stocks and stocking arrangements when these form part of international commodity agreements. We emphasised, however, the difficulties associated with determining what part buffer stocking arrangements might play in trying to find solutions to the problems of individual commodities and hence what finance may be needed. 
Australia, along with other countries taking part in the North/South Dialogue in the Conference on International Economic Cooperation agreed that a fund should be established with the details of its operation to be worked out in UNCTAD. In this regard, the Commonwealth Heads of Government at their recent meeting in London, on Australia's initiative, requested the Commonwealth SecretaryGeneral to establish a small technical working group drawn from Commonwealth countries to examine the issues which need to be addressed in order to facilitate the work of the UNCTAD Negotiating Conference in November. 
No. The Common Fund Campaign asked the Department of Overseas Trade if an officer could attend such a meeting to provide information on the March Conference. The Department responded that this hardly seemed necessary since Campaign representatives attended the Conference and hence were in a position to provide information about the Conference. 
Pursuant to section 41 of the Export Market Development Grants Act 1974, 1 present the annual report of the Export Development Grants Board for 1976-77. 
-The reply to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 5th Report, December 1976 and (b) 6th Report, May 1977. 
and (3) The interdepartmental committee's report on the 5th Report has now been completed; and its report on the 6th Report is expected to be completed in the near future. 
The Departments represented on the committee are as follows: Prime Minister and Cabinet; National Resources; Treasury; Finance; Industry and Commerce; Transport; Business and Consumer Affairs; Northern Territory; and Environment, Housing and Community Development. 
The interdepartmental committee will submit its reports to the Minister for National Resources and then, as appropriate, the reports will be considered by the Government. 
I join with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and express on behalf of the Australian National Country Party our sympathy at the loss of Reginald Francis Xavier Connor. I think occasions like this are made much sadder when we are speaking about a colleague who was a current member of the Parliament, a colleague who, over the years, participated fully in the functioning of this House and with whom, on many occasions, one has exchanged the cut and thrust of debate. That being so, one has an even greater respect for the contribution that that person has made to the running of this country. 
Rex Connor was a very unusual man. He was a controversial character. But no matter how hard the criticism might have been, he remained steadfast, firm and determined in whatever his belief or policy might have been. He was what I consider the old style of Labor man. He was a socialist. He had strong beliefs and held fast to them. He was a man who had great dreams or visions among which was a national pipeline authority. I was very pleased recently to be able to ask him to share with me in the unveiling of a plaque at the opening of the Moomba to Sydney pipeline. I say this because I think Rex Connor truly deserves credit for the construction of that pipeline. He was determined to see it built and therefore it was more fitting that he, rather than I, should participate in that function as I had just inherited the position of Minister for National Resources. 
Rex Connor was a man who will be long remembered for his contribution to this Parliament. His health had not been good in recent times. We all saw the strain under which he was operating. I would like to express sympathy to his three sons and to his very big family at his loss and also at the recent loss of his wife. 
-I agree with the honourable member that this is an extremely critical matter for the Queensland sugar industry, which invested some $400m in expanding the industry in Queensland to meet the long term contracts with Japan. We believe that these contracts are bankable documents which should be honoured. The present situation, apart from causing immense concern to the Queensland industry, I should think would be extremely embarrassing to the Japanese Government and to Japan because the Japanese refineries are refusing to receive sugar which has been delivered to Japan under those contracts. In other words, the contracts are not being honoured. The contracts were written in 1974 at about half of what the world price was at that stage. We believed that was a good deal; all parties believed it was a good deal. The world price has now dropped considerably below the contract price so the Japanese refiners are refusing to take the sugar. 
If the price had gone the other way Australia certainly would have honoured its obligation to supply the sugar. At the moment seven boats carrying more than 100,000 tonnes of sugar are being held up in Japan waiting to be unloaded. Therefore a resolution to this question needs to be found. 
The Prime Minister when he visited Kuala Lumpur spoke with Prime Minister Fukuda and told him that the Australian Government strongly supports the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd in its general handling of this question and that it supports the validity of the contract. We hope that there will be no compromise to the contract. If there is any compromise it will be a matter for the parties directly involved with the contract. I am quite sure that all parties would like to see this matter amicably resolved without going to the court. I hope that now Prime Minister Fukuda is back in Japan he will find an early resolution of this matter. If a country like Japan, which is very deficient in raw materials, wants to have assured reliable suppliers- there is no better way of doing so than by writing long term contracts. If this long term contract were to fall down I believe it would be a very sad day for Japan in looking to other countries for the supply of raw material. We need to remember that immense investment is required in order to supply raw material in bulk, as has happened with the sugar industry in Queensland. 
I hope that there is an early resolution of this matter. The Queensland Government has agreed to an extension of the negotiations to 3 1 August. I hope that the matter will be resolved by then. I think that it will be a tragedy if the matter goes to the courts for finality. I am sure that is not the wish of the Japanese Government. 
I do not think that anybody likes to see fuel prices go up but the reality of the situation is that the world oil price is increasing and in order to avoid distortion in the use of resources Australia needs to keep pace with the world price. Adjusting the price also encourages greater exploration and development of Australia's known fields and more research into alternative forms of energy such as solar energy or coal conversion. I am conscious of the increased cost to the community and particularly of the increased cost to the farming community and to those in outlying areas. We did have a price equalisation scheme which guaranteed no greater price for people in remote areas than 3.3c above what was paid in city areas but this scheme was abolished by the Whitlam Administration because it was considered unnecessary. That was tragic because the scheme enabled Australians no matter where they lived to have access to energy at reasonably comparable prices. 
I would like to see this sort of scheme brought back. The Government has looked at proposals to do this, but because of the very stringent Budget circumstances in which we are the Government has had to reject the proposal as it has had to reject many other proposals. However, it is not a matter which the Government will put aside indefinitely and, when circumstances are appropriate, we certainly will look at it again. There is need for Australians no matter where they live to have access to energy at reasonable prices. As energy becomes more expensive, I believe that a national energy policy becomes more important. Members of the Opposition who try to bully the Government into action should look at what they did to rural people when they abolished a scheme that was of great national significance. 
by leave- The Commonwealth Government has now completed its consideration of the proposals submitted by the North West Shelf Joint Venture companies last year in which they outlined the plans for development of the large gas reserves they earlier discovered in the Rankin Trend area on the North West Shelf. It is also understood that the Western Australian Government has now reached agreement in principle with the Joint Venture in regard to the supply of gas to the Western Australian market both in respect of quantity and price. The agreement in this respect is now awaiting ratification by the Joint Venture companies. The parties in the Joint Venture are: Woodside Oil Ltd, Woodside Petroleum Development Pty Ltd, MidEastern Oil Ltd, BP Petroleum Development (Australia) Pty Ltd, and California Asiatic Oil Company. BHP and Shell Development Australia Ltd each hold a 50 per cent interest in North West Shelf Development Pty Ltd which has a controlling interest in the Joint Venture through its holdings in Woodside Petroleum Ltd. The companies have already expended about $175m on petroleum exploration in the North West Shelf area and in this context the Rankin discoveries were made in 1972. It will be remembered that the companies were keen to proceed with development in 1974 but were prevented from doing so by the policies of the previous Government. 
Since returning to office our Government has co-operated closely with the Joint Venture and the Western Australian Government and we are now at the stage where the Joint Venture should soon be able to decide to move on to the next and very important stage of project definition. This will involve further collection of data, including appraisal drilling, seabed analysis, soil and site surveys and firming-up design, costing, revenue and timing forecasts. At the same time, negotiations would be set in train in respect of the long term contracts for the sale of liquefied natural gas, LNG, to overseas markets. During this stage all the environmental aspects of the proposed development will be taken fully into account through the environment protection administrative procedures to ensure that the Commonwealth environmental legislation is complied with. An environmental impact statement will be required in time to enable it to be adequately examined prior to the granting of any production licence. 
When the project definition study has been completed consideration will then be given by the Joint Venture to moving to the final substantive development stage. It will involve the construction of at least two offshore platforms, 120 kilometres of pipeline to the shore, processing and LNG plants and a number of specialised LNG tankers. On current estimates the costs involved are expected to be in the vicinity of $2,500 million at current prices and it is anticipated that the gas will come on stream in 1 984. Against this background it is not surprising that with the long lead time involved the Joint Venture sought the clearest possible assurances from the Commonwealth and State governments as to the conditions that will apply to the project and its end products. These were aspects that the Joint Venture considered had a significant bearing on the viability of the proposed project. 
As indicated on numerous occasions previously, the Commonwealth Government attaches the highest priority to this project. It will be the most costly project ever undertaken in Australia. As well as supplying much needed gas for energy starved Western Australia, obviously great economic benefits will flow to Western Australia and to Australia as a whole. Most importantly, it would be invaluable in providing further incentive and encouragement to the petroleum exploration industry. Unless it is apparent to exploration companies that any gas discoveries can be developed within a reasonable time, exploration, especially for much needed oil, could be seriously retarded. But in addition, I believe a decision by the Joint Venture to press ahead with the project definition study and then, we all hope, to full scale development, will be a demonstration of confidence that will give a lead to the nation as a whole. 
The principal areas of Commonwealth responsibility involved in the consideration of the project to date have been related primarily to the export of LNG and to a number of taxation aspects. It is quite apparent that without a reasonable level of exports the development of the project would not be viable as the companies would not be able to generate an early cash flow to cover the investment involved. The gas would then remain in the ground,  Western  Australia would be denied the much needed energy source, significant export earnings would be lost and much needed off-shore exploration discouraged. It is for these reasons that the Government has agreed that approval should be given for the export of 53 per cent of the currently estimated reserves in the three fields, North Rankin, Goodwyn and Angel, over a 20-year period. The remaining reserves are expected to be adequate to meet the requirements of Western Australia through at least until the end of the century. Exports of condensate will also be permitted subject to satisfactory evidence that every reasonable effort has been made to market the product in Australia. 
The views of the National Energy Advisory Committee will be of interest to honourable members in this regard. As will be remembered, this high level Committee was set up earlier this year to provide advice to the Government on energy matters. The Committee recently considered the various options that may be open in regard to the development of the North West Shelf gas resources and the  Chairman  has now advised me by letter that on balance it would be appropriate for the Government to approve the present proposals for the development of the North West Shelf gas which call for export of gas from the shelf area. The Committee expressed the view that to assist, the export of reasonable quantities of gas should be permitted. At the same time the Committee sees the need to keep under review the extent to which Australia's domestic requirements may be met from known reserves or from discoveries yet to be made. 
In regard to taxation matters the Government has decided to introduce legislation during the current sittings of Parliament to amend the income tax law in three important respects. By arrangement with the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  I now outline the details of these proposals. First, it is proposed to extend by 2 years the period within which capital expenditure on the acquisition of certain plant and equipment will be able to qualify for an investment allowance deduction of 20 per cent. Where plant ordered before 30 June 1978 is first used or installed after 30 June 1979, or where plant is ordered, et cetera, after 30 June 1 978 and no later than 30 June 1 983, the investment allowance is available under the present law at the rate of 20 per cent of the capital cost of acquisition, provided the plant is used or installed ready for use and held in reserve by 30 June 1984. Under the proposal, eligible plant or equipment ordered by 30 June 1985, or which the taxpayer concerned commences to construct by that date, will be able to qualify for an investment allowance of 20 per cent of the capital cost, provided that the plant is brought into use or installed ready for use no later than 30 June 1986. 
In deciding to extend the period of the concession by 2 years, the Government wishes to ensure that, in the long range forward planning of large development projects, business enterprises will be influenced by the availability of the incentive provided by the special income tax deduction. The very heavy capital expenditures to be made by the enterprises involved in developing the North West Shelf gas fields, in particular, can now be undertaken on the basis that, for plant and equipment to be acquired under contracts let by 30 June 1 985 and brought on stream no later than 30 June 1986, an investment allowance of 20 per cent will be available in addition to the ordinary deductions which are available under the rapid write-off provisions applicable to petroleum mining companies or over the estimated effective life of the plant. 
The second proposal is to amend the petroleum mining provisions of the income tax law to include within the range of allowable capital expenditures of a petroleum mining company the cost of a liquefaction plant for use in processing natural gas. As a result of this decision, the cost of such plant will qualify for accelerated deductions over the life of the relevant field or on a diminishing value basis at the rate of 20 per cent per annum, whichever basis gives the greater deduction. The decision will mean also that the cost of a liquefaction plant will come within the scope of the third proposal that I will now mention. 
Finally, it is proposed to introduce a new income tax concession to encourage exploration for, and development of, off-shore petroleum deposits. The new concession will be available in respect of moneys subscribed after today as paid-up capital to companies holding valid licences or permits under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act, or registered interests in licences of permits under the Act. These companies will be able to lodge declarations with the Commissioner of Taxation foregoing the right to deductions to which they would become entitled under Division 10AA of the income tax law for capital expenditure incurred after today on offshore exploration for petroleum or on the development of petroleum fields. 
Capital expenditure on on-shore facilities that are directly related to off-shore exploration and development operations, to the extent that it qualifies under division 10AA, will also be within the scope of the declarations. However, the cost of acquiring petroleum mining or exploration rights or information will not qualify under the scheme. By lodging a declaration, a company will be able to confer an income tax rebate on both corporate and non-corporate shareholders in respect of their share capital subscribed that is spent on eligible outgoings. The tax rebate will be allowable in the subscriber's income tax assessment for the year of income in which the moneys are subscribed and will be an amount of 30 cents for each dollar subscribed. Consistently with the normal taxation treatment of rebates, the new rebate is not to give rise to a refund of tax or to any form of carry-forward credit. 
The concession will be available where moneys are subscribed directly to a petroleum exploration or mining company or to a company interposed between the shareholder and the operating company provided there is an appropriate connection between the interposed company and the operating company. There will be a number of safeguards to protect the new concession from abuse. Broadly, the law will provide that declared moneys must be spent on eligible outgoings within the two income years following the year in which the moneys are subscribed. Subscriptions not spent immediately on receipt must be held by the operating companies on readily realisable deposits such as with a bank or in the short term money market. 
Declarations will be permitted only in respect of all, or a specified proportion, of a particular capital subscription. Where declared moneys are spent on ineligible outgoings or are not spent within the two years following the year of subscription, the tax rebate to the subscriber will be withdrawn. Other safeguards along the lines of earlier safeguards associated with the former scheme of shareholder deductions will also apply. 
A number of other decisions have also been taken by the Government which have specific or general implications for the North West Shelf development. In regard to foreign investment the Government has indicated to the Joint Venture that it has no objections on foreign investment policy grounds to their proposals for the development of the Rankin Trend area. In regard to overseas borrowing controls the Government has decided that it is prepared to provide, in respect of major projects, longer term assurances of freedom from future adverse changes to the controls on overseas borrowings which might prejudice forward plans for funding subject to the following conditions: The assurances would apply only to projects involving estimated capital expenditure of $500m or more; applicants would be required to demonstrate that there is a very high probability of the project being commenced within three years; and no assurances would be given in respect of overseas borrowings with a repayment term of less than four years. 
Assurances provided by the Government would be on condition that the applicant reached satisfactory arrangements with the Reserve Bank in respect of the timing of the drawdowns of the overseas borrowings. Once these conditions had been met, the Government would provide an assurance for the North West Shelf Joint Venture and others that met the conditions. The Joint Venture has had preliminary discussions with Australian Customs in regard to the more specific details of the development details. The Joint Venture has been informed that the existing by-law procedures will apply in regard to any imports for the project. The announcement in the Budget Speech last week that the crude oil levy will not apply to condensate marketed separately from the crude oil stream will also be relevant to the North West Shelf project. 
Yes, it applies to Redcliffas well. 
I thought you were referring to South Australia. 
While keen to assist the North West Shelf project in getting off the ground, the Government has nonetheless been very mindful of the possible shortfall of gas supplies in the eastern States and South Australia by the end of the century. This shortfall has been estimated at between three and four trillion cubic feet. There have been suggestions that the North West Shelf gas should be held in reserve for this eventuality; or alternatively a transcontinental pipeline should be constructed with the LNG plant located on the east coast rather than in the north-west. Neither of these proposals is acceptable to the Joint Venture or the Commonwealth and State governments for a number of reasons, some of which have been explained above. In addition, the economics of a transcontinental pipeline are open to some questioning and a detailed examination of such a proposal at this late stage would almost certainly lead to a further serious delay over the above the two years that was lost because of the policy of the previous Commonwealth Government. The end result could well be that the project may not proceed at all. 
It is almost certain that the further gas resources required by the eastern States and South Australia will be discovered or proved up. There is optimism in respect of the Cooper and other Basins in South Australia and central Australia especially as exploration becomes more economically attractive. Further gas discoveries are also anticipated offshore, especially on the North West Shelf. In considering proposals for the development of other gas fields in the future the Commonwealth Government will continue to give proper weight to domestic requirements. The Government has decided that it will continue its policy of allowing exports of reasonable quantities of gas but exports will be permitted only after the Government is satisfied that domestic requirements of gas and gas liquids, including petrochemical feedstocks, have been considered. Any proposals to meet domestic requirements would, of course, have to be realistic and economically justified. 
The whole question of the future domestic requirements of gas in Australia has, and will continue to be examined in such important fora as the Australian Minerals and Energy Council and the National Energy Advisory Committee. It is the intention of the Commonwealth to continue to co-operate with the States to ensure that the necessary action is taken to meet the future domestic requirements, especially in the eastern States and South Australia. The Commonwealth believes that within the context of its responsibilities it has provided a satisfactory climate for the Joint Venture to now review its position. I confidently expect it will make an early decision to proceed to the next stage and look forward to the significant impact this will have in so many ways throughout Australia. I present the following paper: 
Development of the North West Shelf Gas FieldsMinisterial Statement, 24 August 1977. 
Motion (by  Mr Staley)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
by leave- The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has announced the Government's decision to proceed with further expansion and development of Australia's uranium industry. In this statement I shall explain the details of our decisions on development and the background to them. 
Australia is presently a uranium producer. Australia has had a long history of mining and export of uranium. Uranium mining and milling began at Rum Jungle and in the Alligator Rivers Region in the Northern Territory, at Mary Kathleen in Queensland, and at Radium Hill in South Australia in the 1950s. Production at these sites was exported to the United States and the United Kingdom both for defence purposes and for electric power generation. The total amount exported was 7,860 short tons of uranium oxide. Although uranium mining at Radium Hill did not commence until 1954, mining for radium commenced there early this century. 
Mining at Rum Jungle ceased in 1963, but treatment operations continued until 1971 and the output of about 2,250 short tons of uranium oxide was stockpiled by the Government. 
Following improved market conditions for uranium early in the 1970s and discoveries of substantial new Australian deposits, export contracts were obtained by Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd, Peko/EZ and Queensland Mines Limited amounting to 1 1,757 short tons of uranium oxide for delivery over the period 1976 to 1986. The contracts were approved by the then Government and negotiations with Peko/EZ, Queensland Mines and Noranda Australia for development of the Ranger, Nabarlek and Koongarra deposits were in progress at the time the Whitlam Government took office on 2 December 1972. The Whitlam Government gave undertakings that the export contracts would be honoured and it subsequently made arrangements for the re-commissioning of Mary Kathleen and for the development of the Peko/EZ project at Ranger and for subsequent development of other mines in the Alligator Rivers Region. 
A feature of the uranium development policy of the Whitlam Government was direct Commonwealth participation. The Whitlam Government obtained a 42 per cent shareholding in Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd. On the basis of these arrangements re-commissioning of the mine began in 1974, and production commenced early in 1976. Production and export of uranium is continuing at Mary Kathleen and to date 690 short tons of uranium oxide have been exported for electric power generation in Japan, the United States and West Germany. 
Following its decision on the Mary Kathleen project the Whitlam Government tabled in the 
Parliament on 31 October 1974 a statement announcing a program of large scale uranium development in the Northern Territory of Australia commencing with the exploitation of the Ranger deposit to be followed by development of the Nabarlek, Jabiluka and Koongarra deposits. 
Together with the Whitlam Government statement on 31 October 1974 there was also tabled in the Parliament an agreement with Peko/EZ for joint development of the Ranger deposit by the Commonwealth and those companies. The agreement was signed by the then Prime Minister  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  the then  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the then Minister for Minerals and Energy (the late  Mr Connor)  and by the  Chairman  of Peko Mines Limited  (Mr Proud)  and the Managing Director of the Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Limited  (Mr Mackay).  That Agreement was elaborated further in a Memorandum of Understanding dated 28 October 1975 also tabled in the Parliament. The Memorandum of Understanding was signed by the then Prime Minister  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and  Mr Proud  and  Mr Mackay  of Peko/EZ. 
The Whitlam Government also announced in its uranium development policy statement of 3 1 October 1974 that the Government stockpile of uranium remaining from the earlier operations at Rum Jungle would be available to Peko/EZ and Queensland Mines Limited to allow early deliveries to be made under the approved export contracts of those companies prior to the mines at Ranger and Nabarlek coming into production. 
It should be recalled that central considerations in the Whitlam Government's policy of uranium development were the economic benefits to Australia which would accrue and the responsibility Australia has as an energy rich nation in meeting the energy needs of other countries. 
The Whitlam Government's statement on uranium development which I have already referred to and which was tabled in the Parliament on 31 October 1974 opened with the following words:  . . . this statement is to outline the Government's program for the rational development of uranium resources in the Northern Territory; a program which will return substantial economic benefits to Australia from our supply of this vital energy resource to our overseas trading partners who face such grave difficulties in securing their energy requirements . . . 
The Whitlam Government's commitment of Australia, and Australian companies, to meeting the uranium requirements of our trading partners continued and reached the very substantial amount of 100,000 tonnes of uranium. The then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  said on 16 October 1975 in the second reading speech on the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill that: 
International assurances have been provided by Ministers that Australia will meet the uranium requirements of our major trading partners, which could amount to a total of about 100,000 tonnes of uranium by 1990. 
Very clearly the Whitlam Government recognisedand responded most positively to- the urgent and legitimate energy requirements of other countries. Like our Government, the Whitlam Government recognised the interdependence between Australia and other countries and our responsibilities as a nation rich in energy resources to supply these resources to others. The world energy crisis has meant that adjustment must be made to other sources of energy in the wake of dwindling world supplies of petroleum. The reality has been accepted by all countries- developed and developing alike. This adjustment to other sources of energy is a profound economic and social hardship for many countries. It is difficult for many Australians, living in a nation rich in resources, to understand the vital need of others for energy resources. Many of our trading partners, both developed and less developed, have little in the way of natural resources. Their only resources are the skill and ingenuity of their people and the capital they have available. Naturally, they see resource rich countries like Australia as vital to their own economic future and stability. 
Nuclear energy is the only viable alternative most countries have available to meet their essential need for electrical energy in the wake of the oil crisis. At the present time 184 nuclear power units are in operation in 20 countries with a capacity of 88,000 megawatts of electricityfour times Australia's total electricity generating capacity. There are 2 14 nuclear power units now under construction in 27 countries. An additional 102 units are on firm order in 18 countries. This means 500 nuclear power units, with a total generating capacity of 381,000 megawatts, are either in operation, under construction or on firm order in 34 countries around the world. Nearly 300 more units are in the planning stages. This is a total of about 800. Installed nuclear capacity is now projected to increase to at least one million megawatts and perhaps 1.9 million megawatts by the year 2000. The commitment to nuclear power is not confined to developed countries. There are five nuclear power units in operation in developing countries, 20 under construction, six on order and 60 planned. Nuclear energy is not illusory. It is a fact of life. It is the only viable option for electricity generation that many countries now have. Very substantial quantities of uranium are required to fuel the nuclear reactors in operation and in prospect. The western world's low cost uranium reserves are estimated to total about 1.9 million short tons, of which Australia's reserves amount to 376,000 short tons- that is 20 per cent of the Western world 's known low cost reserves. 
Annual uranium requirements necessary to satisfy the projected growth in nuclear power are about 90,000 short tons of uranium oxide in 1985, 140,000 short tons in 1990 and 200,000 short tons in the year 2000. The estimated production capacity in the western world in 1976 was about 30,000 short tons. Clearly there has to be a substantial expansion in uranium production in the world if the requirements for nuclear fuel and energy are to be met. The fact that nuclear energy usage for electric power generation has proceeded in other countries without access to Australian uranium, and will continue, in no way relieves Australia of its responsibilities as an energy rich nation. It simply highlights the futility of leaving our uranium in the ground. The Alligator Rivers Region is the world 's largest uncommitted uranium province. Effective exploration in the Region to date has been largely restricted to that portion of the main prospective formation which is amenable to airborne radiometric survey and which is only about 1 5 per cent of the prospective area. The overall uranium resources of the Region could be as much as five to ten times the resources identified to date. On this basis the energy content is of the same order as the presently known oil reserves of Saudi Arabia. Can it be seriously suggested that Australia should deny these vast energy resources to a world seriously in need of secure, alternative sources of energy? 
Australia has a clear international responsibility to develop further its uranium resources. The Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry Report stated that total renunciation of intention to supply Australian uranium was not justified and was undesirable. Successive Australian Governments, including the Whitlam Government, have recognised this. Our Government recognises its responsibility to ensure that Australia's uranium resources are further developed and we will proceed to do so on the basis recommended by the Ranger Inquiry. In accepting the responsibility of further uranium development we will ensure that that development will be very strictly controlled, with the fullest and most effective protection for the environment and the welfare of the Aboriginal people as recommended by the Ranger Inquiry. The vast uranium reserves of the Alligator Rivers Region are located in an area of environmental and Aboriginal significance. The Ranger Inquiry was commissioned by the Whitlam Government having regard to these factors. Our Government agreed that the Report of this Inquiry must be available before decisions would be taken regarding development in the Region. 
The Report recommends most stringent measures of control and regulation over uranium development and the Ranger project. This is accepted by the Government. We accept the recommendations of the Ranger Inquiry with only minor exceptions in cases where we believe the objectives can be met in a more appropriate fashion. In some respects we have decided to go beyond the recommendations of the Ranger Inquiry in the direction of securing more stringent measures of control and regulation. My statement, and those of other Ministers, will explain any departures from the recommendations of the Ranger Inquiry. Other than in these cases, the recommendations of the Inquiry have been accepted by the Government. Let me give an illustration of what will not happen in future. I previously mentioned Rum Jungle. That mining operation was carried out with inadequate concern for the environment. It was an operation which reflected evironmental attitudes of 25 years ago which Australians would not tolerate today. I make it clear that there will be no more projects like Rum Jungle. We will embark on a clean up operation at Rum Jungle. As a first step $300,000 has been provided in the 1977-78 Budget estimates of the Department of the Northern Territory for clearance and rehabilitation of the mining area. The Department of the Northern Territory will co-ordinate a study of a comprehensive programme of rehabilitation of the whole area. The Government will take further decisions when that study is completed. The Government will be allowing further uranium development only where it is satisfied that strict regulation and control can properly protect the environment. The Ranger project will proceed subject to the full range of environmental controls recommended by the Inquiry. 
I will deal now with the administrative structure for control and regulation of uranium development. In summary: 
We will appoint a Supervising Scientist and establish a Co-ordinating Committee and Research Institute; 
We will use the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act; 
We will have specific arrangements to ensure Aboriginal welfare; 
We will establish a Uranium Marketing Authority or similar marketing arrangements to achieve the objective of orderly development; 
We will establish a Uranium Advisory Council; and 
We will establish a uniform code of practice for the uranium mining and milling industry. 
Specific administrative arrangements were recommended by the Inquiry covering these matters. We have accepted the Ranger Inquiry's recommendations with the addition of a uniform code of practice which goes beyond the Inquiry's recommendations. There is a need for adequate administrative arrangements to secure proper overall control and regulation of this industry. The extensive interlocking administrative arrangements recommended by the Ranger Inquiry are to be commended and the Government has accepted them as a proper basis to proceed with development. 
The Ranger Inquiry's recommendations regarding the appointment of a Supervising Scientist, establishment of a Co-ordinating Committee and a Research Institute have been adopted. The Supervising Scientist, who will exercise a supervisory and integrating role, will be responsible to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. 
The second major element of the machinery for regulation and control is the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act. We will establish a major National Park in the Region. The Director of National Parks and Wildlife, a statutory officer responsible to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, will have extensive powers over the Region as a whole. 
The third element in the machinery for regulation and control is the special responsibilities of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs described fully in the separate statement by that Minister. 
The fourth element of administrative machinery is the establishment of a Uranium Marketing Authority. The Ranger Inquiry recommended the establishment of such an Authority. The Government accepts the thrust of that recommendation. However, we will not take a final decision on marketing arrangements for Australian uranium until the legal implications of foreign anti-trust laws have been fully examined by the Government. Should we proceed to confirm our preliminary thinking that a Marketing Authority be established, the Authority would be responsible to the Minister for National Resources. It would ensure that the Government at all times has proper knowledge, oversight and control of the commercial arrangements under which Australian uranium was exported. 
The Government attaches the greatest importance to orderly development of our uranium resources. We will want to see our uranium industry develop as a stable and secure long term supplier of energy to other countries on fair and reasonable terms. We will not allow the development of our uranium industry to be dictated by volatile events in markets abroad. Furthermore, we will ensure that our marketing arrangements accord no marketing advantage to Ranger resulting specifically from Government participation in that project. 
The Ranger Inquiry suggested that a Marketing Authority could also administer nuclear safeguards. The Government's view is that commercial and safeguards matters are separate issues and we would not want any suggestion that one can be traded-off against the other. We therefore do not consider it appropriate that a Marketing Authority whose task would be commercial should control safeguards. 
The application and administration of nuclear safeguards on the import, export and handling of nuclear material in Australia will remain the responsibility of the Minister for National Resources and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Minister for National Resources will retain the powers he presently exercises over the control and administration of commercial and nuclear safeguards aspects of development. The Government will therefore always be in a position to move immediately to terminate uranium development, permanently, indefinitely or for a specified period as recommended by the Ranger Inquiry. 
The fifth element in the administrative arrangements the Government will put in place is the rcommendation of the Ranger Inquiry to establish a Uranium Advisory Council, responsible to the Minister for National Resources. This body will fulfil the recommendation of the Ranger Inquiry for the establishment of a body with adequate representation of the people to advise the Government and with a duty to report annually to the Parliament with regard to the export and use of Australian uranium. 
The final element in the administrative arrangements is that the Government will move to establish by legislation, together with the States, a uniform code of practice to apply to all uranium mining and milling in Australia. As a first step the Government will establish the existing 'Code of Practice on Radiation Protection in the Mining and Milling of Radioactive Ores' completed in  1975  after extensive consultation with industry, trade unions and Government instrumentalities, both Federal and State. The Government's decision to establish a code of practice goes beyond the recommendations of the Ranger Inquiry and commends itself as a desirable policy to bring system and conformity into the industry throughout Australia. 
The administrative machinery I have described will be the foundation on which further development of the industry will proceed. It is completely in accord with the recommendations of the Ranger Inquiry and will provide a proper and adequate basis on which uranium development will proceed so as to harmonise the interests of development, environmental protection, National Park values and Aboriginal welfare. 
The Government has decided that the Ranger Project will proceed on the basis of the Memorandum of Understanding concluded between the Whitlam Government and Peko/EZ. Those companies entered into these arrangements with the former Government in good faith and the arrangements will be honoured by our Government. The Memorandum of Understanding provides for the Commonwealth, through the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, to engage in a joint venture with Peko/EZ for the mining of uranium at Ranger, beginning with the establishment of a mine of  3,300  short tons capacity. The capital is to be provided in the proportions  72  Vi  per cent by the Commonwealth and  27V4  per cent by Peko/EZ, with Peko/EZ receiving the net proceeds of sale of  50  per cent of the uranium produced. 
The direct financial participation of the Commonwealth in a mining project is, of course, contrary to the political philosophy of our Government, but we are prepared to honour the agreement with Peko/EZ which we have inherited from the Whitlam Government. 
The southern boundary of the Ranger Project Area will be  adjusted as  recommended by the Inquiry to relocate operations away from Aboriginal sacred sites at Mount Brockman. The Ranger Inquiry recommends overall a smaller area for the Ranger development than that specified in the Memorandum of Understanding. Apart from the relocation of the southern boundary, the Government is prepared to agree that the Ranger Project Area and other elements of the Memorandum of Understanding will remain undisturbed. In coming to this conclusion, the Government is satisfied that the comprehensive and interlocking administrative arrangements I have already described, which will govern development, will provide the necessary protection of environmental, Aboriginal and National Park values in the course of development and operation of Ranger. 
The Government's decision to retain the Memorandum of Understanding will mean that the Ranger Project will therefore be developed under the Atomic Energy Act as envisaged by the Whitlam Government. The Ranger Inquiry recommended against the use of the Atomic Energy Act on the grounds that this legislation was enacted largely with defence considerations in mind. Having reviewed this matter the Government nevertheless considered that the Atomic Energy Act provides an appropriate basis for mining operations at Ranger in accordance with the agreements concluded between the companies and the Commonwealth in 1974 and 1975. 
In coming to this conclusion, the Government had regard to the view of the Ranger Inquiry that its concern over the appropriateness of the Atomic Energy Act would have less force if the Uranium Advisory Council recommendation of the Inquiry were adopted. As I have already stated, the Government will adopt that recommendation of the Ranger Inquiry and establish a Uranium Advisory Council. 
Subject to satisfactory completion of the necessary environmental requirements and conclusion of arrangements with the Aboriginal people, the Government will take a decision on development of the Nabarlek deposit by Queensland Mines Limited. 
Decisions on the development of the Jabiluka and Koongarra deposits will be taken following the completion of the abovementioned requirements. In the case of Koongarra, it was made clear by the Ranger Inquiry that there would be a considerable amount of planning and investigation to be completed, particularly having in mind the fragility of the environment which could be affected by development at Koongarra. 
The Ranger Inquiry recommended that there be sequential development of the mines in the Alligator Rivers Region at appropriate intervals. 
The existing deposits are at different stages of investigation and there will of course be different environmental and other requirements necessary in each case. This will result, in practice, in mines coming into production at different times. The Government therefore sees it as unnecessary to set down a specific timetable of sequential development and it is satisfied that completion of the requirements, which will be a prerequisite for any development in each case, will result in the Ranger Inquiry's recommendations regarding development being satisfied. 
Subject to satisfactory completion of the necessary environmental requirements, the Government will also take decisions on the development of projects in the States. 
In coming to these general conclusions on Nabarlek, Jabiluka, Koongarra, on development in the States and on the question of sequential development, the Government is conscious that particular decisions must await the outcome of environmental procedures. The Government believes it is not appropriate at this stage to come to decisions which could pre-empt environmental consideration or foreclose the Government's intention to take decisions in full knowledge of facts that may arise at a later stage, including the careful monitoring we will maintain of the overall impact of activity on the Region. 
I have already referred to the potential of the Alligator Rivers Region as an energy resource and to our international responsibility to countries which require stable and continuing sources of energy for their wellbeing and prosperity. Consistent with this, and having in mind the very long lead times between successful exploration and bringing resources to the production stage, exploration may proceed in the Region, but only under strictly controlled conditions. No exploration will be permitted for the time being in the area declared as the first stage of the proposed National Park and future exploration will be carefully controlled in accordance with the Park Plan of Management. In that area to be declared in the subsequent stage of the National Park, exploration will be permitted in the meantime under strictly controlled conditions to be supervised by the Departments of National Resources, Aboriginal Affairs, Northern Territory and Environment, Housing and Community Development. 
The decision to proceed with further uranium development will bring with it significant economic benefits for the Australian community. The Ranger Inquiry made forecasts of these potential benefits, as have other bodies. Forecasts are of course subject to the usual qualifications, and inherent in them is a variety of assumptions. Nevertheless, they point to significant export income, employment and other economic benefits which would be derived from development. 
The Ranger Inquiry assumed that production and sales would begin in 1981-82 at a rate of 2,000 short tons of uranium oxide increasing to 10,000 short tons in 1985-86. These estimates are broadly in line with the Government's assessment of the world market situation in the first half of the 1980s. After 1985, the likely exports that Australia could make would increase substantially. Although actual sales prospects will not be known until Australia actively seeks long term contracts in the market on the basis of actual production, the forecasts presently available provide a basis on which carefully regulated development can proceed. 
The Ranger Inquiry's forecasts of economic benefits concluded that, at a price level of SUS30 per lb, the addition to our national income resulting from further development of an Australian uranium industry could account for more than 1.3 per cent of projected levels of national income in the mid-1990s. The Ranger Inquiry concluded that, should the higher prices assumed in its analysis be achieved, namely a price of $US30 per lb, the export earnings of the uranium industry would eventually exceed the earnings in recent years of any of our other major export industries. Some other economic benefits estimated by the Inquiry were: gross revenue to the year 2000 could exceed $20,000m in present money values; net national benefits discounted to present worth terms could be $3,255m. 
The Ranger Inquiry's forecasts also indicate that development of a national uranium industry will result in the creation of considerable direct employment opportunities. Based on the assumption that construction of the first project would commence in 1977-78, with production and sales commencing in 1981-82 at an average rate of around 2,000 short tons of uranium oxide, increasing at about that rate until 1994-95 when total output would reach 27,300 short tons, the Ranger Inquiry forecast that a total work force of between 2,000 and 2,500 would probably be directly employed in the industry. Additionally, the Inquiry forecast that construction activities associated with any such development could provide direct employment for up to 1,500 workers at any one time. 
The employment opportunities created by the development of our uranium industry will not, of course, end at the mine site. Australian manufacturers supplying materials and equipment to the projects will need to employ workers, as will transport, retail service and many other industries. 
The employment prospects would, of course, be further enhanced should Australia at some future stage decide to upgrade and enrich uranium prior to export. The Government does, as a matter of policy, wish to see the maximum processing of Australian raw materials prior to export. Consistent with this attitude we will study the feasibility of upgrading and enrichment of uranium in Australia, and preserve Australia's options in this regard. The joint uranium enrichment feasibility study between Australia and Japan, initiated by the Whitlam Government, will continue. We will be prepared to enter into similar feasibility studies with other countries. 
The Ranger Inquiry did not forecast possible levels of employment that could result from a fully integrated uranium industry in Australia, but a recent authoritative study by the South Australian Government, which I have previously tabled in this House, did so. That study by the South Australian Government suggests that the build-up of new direct employment possibilities could conservatively amount to 20,000 persons. The further economic benefits and effects of an industry of this scale are discussed, and the report comes to the remarkable conclusion that: 
Employment opportunities, on the statistical data for the already established North American uranium industry, would be such that a fully developed uranium industry in Australia could support directly and indirectly about 300,000 persons starting with a mining work force of about 5,000. 
The economic benefits of uranium mining for the Northern Territory will be particularly significant. The Ranger Inquiry estimated that uranium mining operations would add between $65m and $ 105m to incomes in the Territory- an increase of between 16 per cent and 26 per cent. The Ranger Inquiry estimated that direct employment opportunities for 1,250 to 1,500 workers, which is about 3 per cent to 3.5 per cent of the present labour force in the Territory, could arise. The Ranger Inquiry concluded that: . . . a regional uranium industry producing up to 1 2,500 tonnes of uranium per year would substantially enlarge the Northern Territory's economy and could provide the stimulus for a much faster rate of economic growth in the area than would otherwise occur. 
Clearly the information available at this stage points to substantial economic benefits. The Government will wish to consider the accrual of an appropriate share of uranium profits to the public sector. The Government will therefore initiate discussions with the industry on a possible framework for a secondary or resource-based tax on future earnings from uranium development. 
I turn finally to the Ranger Inquiry's recommendations concerning energy policy in Australia. The Inquiry recommended that a national energy policy should be developed and reviewed regularly; that steps should be taken to institute full and energetic research programs into liquid fuels and energy sources other than fossil fuels and nuclear fission; and that a program of energy conservation be instituted nationally. 
The Government accepts these recommendations. Steps have already been taken in this direction. As I announced to the House in my statement on crude oil policy on 1 6 August 1 977, 1 am currently preparing a statement on Australia's energy policy which will deal comprehensively with all forms of energy. That statement will be presented to the House as soon as practicable. 
The formulation and continuing review of a national energy policy is, however, a complex subject requiring detailed and expert analysis and is a task which the Government cannot and will not undertake in isolation. 
It is for this reason that I announced on 10 February 1977 the establishment of a National Energy Advisory Committee as foreshadowed in the Coalition Parties' Statement on Minerals and Energy Policy issued prior to the last elections. 
The Government is looking to this Committee for advice on Australia's energy reserves and on factors likely to influence the pattern of energy supply and demand, and future costs in Australia; the assessment of and development of our energy resources, and the economy and use of energy. 
The Committee will also offer advice on the balance of resources for research relating to the development of energy sources in Australia and on developments both here and overseas in respect of methods and technology associated with the production and distribution of energy. 
The Committee is advising the Government progressively on these matters and the Government will take full account of the Committee's advice in framing an integrated energy policy for Australia. 
In view of the responsibility and control which State governments exercise over much of the production and consumption of Australian energy materials, it is important that the Federal 
Government maintain close liaison with the State governments on energy matters. For this reason the Federal and State governments have established the Australian Minerals and Energy Council to serve as a forum for consultation between the relevant Commonwealth and State Ministers on the nation's energy needs, resources and policies. 
I should make clear that the Government does not see a detailed national energy policy as a rigid blueprint for the development of Australia's energy resources and the meeting of Australia's energy needs. It must be a flexible instrument of policy planning which can be adapted to changing circumstances and will continue to give the public and private sectors an adequate basis for decision-making. It must be, and will be, kept up to date and accordingly we will keep our policy under regular review. 
The Government has already taken steps to increase the level of energy research and development activity in Australia. The recently announced levy for coal research purposes will provide increased funds for research on coal mining and combustion, and on the production of liquid fuels from coal. 
An agency-to-agency agreement on coal research co-operation was recently signed by the Department of National Resources and the National Coal Board of the United Kingdom. Similar agreements with the United States Energy Research and Development Administration and with the United States Bureau of Mines are at an advanced stage of negotiation. Part of the funds raised by the coal research levy will be set aside to stimulate research co-operation under each of these agreements. 
The Commonwealth Government has also decided to join with interested States in considering an offer from the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany and German private companies to share the cost of a $3m study of the economic and technical feasibility of a plant to convert coal to 10 per cent liquefied petroleum gas, 45 per cent motor spirit and 45 per cent diesel oil. In a joint statement issued at the conclusion of the Australian Minerals and Energy Council meeting in Adelaide on Friday 19 August 1977, the Victorian Minister for Mines, Fuel and Power, the New South Wales Minister for Mines and Energy and I announced that, assuming that a number of outstanding questions which remain to be clarified can be resolved satisfactorily, the Commonwealth and the governments of New South Wales and Victoria would be prepared to finance the other half of the cost of a feasibility study on an equitable basis, with an upper limit of $1.5m. Queensland also expressed interest in joining in such a study, on these terms, and will examine the proposal of the Federal Republic of Germany as a matter of urgency. 
The Government has also decided that, as resources flow from the further development of uranium, additional funds will be provided to increase substantially our national effort on solar energy research. 
Energy research and development is a matter to which I have asked the National Energy Advisory Committee to pay particular attention, and I expect to receive advice on this matter from the Committee in the near future. At the request of the Prime Minister, the Australian Science and Technology Council is also preparing advice for the Government on energy research and development in Australia. 
The formulation of an energy research and development policy which will make the most effective use of the nation's research resources cannot take place without detailed knowledge of the existing research effort. Accordingly, the Department of National Resources is currently undertaking a national survey of energy research and development in Australia. The survey of Commonwealth Government departments and instrumentalities has already commenced, and State governments, universities and private companies will be approached in due course. 
The need for an expanded energy research and development effort has been recognised by Ministers with energy responsibilities from each of the major Australian political parties. At the 19 August 1977 meeting of the Australian Minerals and Energy Council, the Council expressed the unanimous view that there is a need for an active and co-ordinated national energy research and development effort. The Council is to consider at its next meeting a report from officials on the establishment of a national energy research and development program, and the means by which such a program might appropriately be organised and financed. This will enable the Commonwealth to frame a national energy research and development policy which takes full account of the advice of the National Energy Advisory Committee and the Australian Science and Technology Council and of the activities and priorities of the State governments. 
Regarding energy conservation, the Government has already taken a vitally important step in moving to raise the price of indigenous crude oil to appropriate levels. 
The National Energy Advisory Committee has provided me with a preliminary statement on a program of energy conservation for Australia and is at present developing a program of conservation measures for consideration by the Government. 
I have outlined in this statement the detailed basis on which further development of Australia's uranium industry will proceed. The recommendations of the Ranger Inquiry have received our careful study and it will be seen that we have accepted them with very little amendment in detail and no amendment in substance. The Government is satisfied that the recommendations of this far-reaching and comprehensive public inquiry set out a basis on which mining and export can proceed in harmony with, and with full protection for, the environment, national park and Aboriginal values. 
We believe it is a basis on which Australia can confidently proceed, having the fullest regard for our national interest and the individual interests of all our people. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australia already imports crude oil from a number of countries. It is not the Government's policy to become directly involved in commercial import or export transactions or to give any direction to Australian commercial interests as to where they should source imports. 
The Government's policy as outlined above has been explained on any occasion when the matter of crude oil imports into Australia has entered into discussions with representatives of foreign governments. 
NEAT Scheme: Meat Inspectors Course (Question No. 993) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Preliminary assessments based on published information have been made by the Bureau of Mineral Resources and the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. These will not be completed or made public until full details of exploration work by Western Mining Corporation are completed and are available to the Government. The company stated on 18 November 1 976 that, while a great deal more drilling will be necessary to establish the extent and grade of the occurrence, it appears that a very large body of copper mineralisation has been discovered. Drilling results released by the company on 5 May 1977 indicate the presence of further copper and uranium mineralisation. 
I was very interested to read some remarks made by the Leader of the Opposition in his address last weekend when he said  the economic benefits from uranium mining would not come for five to ten years. The economic benefits from the development of uranium mines would be almost immediate. The Peko-EZ company which has a memorandum of understanding with the Commonwealth to mine Ranger is in a position to commence immediately. Of course, as soon as it commences it will have to start to employ people. The company has to prepare the site and the roads and that means that people would be put into work immediately in the Northern Territory. As the mine proceeds a work force of something like a couple of thousand people would be directly involved in construction work. Of course there would then be benefits to all those people who supply the services for the people employed. The economic benefits for the Northern Territory would be immense. The Northern Territory is suffering at the moment because of low prices for meat and minerals. The reconstruction of Darwin has almost been completed and a fillip such as the development of uranium mining would be of immense importance to Darwin and its economy. So it is utter nonsense to talk about there being no economic benefits for from five to ten years, as was stated by the Leader of the Opposition. 
In the presentation of the Budget it was announced that the Government would be consulting oil companies that are producing oil in Australia- principally the two Bass Strait operators- about the possibility of a secondary tax being applied at some time in the future. Those discussions have commenced. When we presented the uranium policy decisions it was announced also that we would be looking at the possibility of a secondary tax being applied to uranium development. Of course, the likely application of that tax would still be a good many years away. 
There has been undesirable speculation throughout the mining industry that a resources tax might apply generally to the rnining industry. I want to lay at rest this speculation. It is not the Government's intention to apply a resources tax to other sections of the mining industry. There are good and sound reasons for looking at a secondary tax or a resources tax in respect of oil that has already been produced in Australia and in respect of areas in which profits will be greatly increased because of government decisions. There are also good and wise reasons for looking at the uranium industry in this respect as it is unique and its potential profitability could be very substantial. 
We have just been listening to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who is the titular shadow Treasurer. After listening to him I think that he is probably one of the most irresponsible shadow Treasurers that this House has ever seen because in the last few minutes he has just displayed his desire to achieve a run on the Australian dollar by creating an emotional situation, and that seems to give him joy. He did it earlier this year and it had disastrous effects on the money market. Now he is trying to do it again. Apparently this is the only way in which he can get his name in the Press. When he does that sort of thing it shows a pretty low form. Of course, he is one of the most discredited 
Treasurers that this country has ever seen. He is discredited because he brought down a runaway Budget, a Budget which was leading this country to bankruptcy, a Budget which he said in this House would be for a deficit of $2,700m. Yet within months of our coming into office it had increased from $2.7 billion to $4.5 billion. It was quite obvious that there was absolute dishonesty in the presentation of the figures to this national Parliament, yet he tries to make out he was a great Treasurer. Heaven forbid that we should ever see that sort of behaviour again. 
The shape of this Budget, the shape of last year's Budget and, I suspect, the shape of many Budgets to come, have been dictated by the Budgets brought down by Labor Treasurers in the years 1973 to 1975. Those were the years of extravagance. Those years- 1973, 1974 and 1975- were the years when an indulgent Labor Government, lacking the courage and strength to resist the demands which all governments experience, laid the foundations for Australia's present economic difficulties, difficulties which will take many years to solve. If anyone doubts the truth of what I am saying, he or she needs only to recall that each of those Labor Budgets saw increases in government spending in excess of 20 per cent, and in one year a massive and disastrous increase of 46 per cent. Is it any wonder that when the Liberal and National Country parties were asked by the Australian people to start cleaning up the mess the Budget deficit was running at over $4.5 billion? 
It needs to be clearly understood what such a massive deficit means. A Budget deficit that is too large is highly inflationary. It is inflationary because it has to be financed in one of three ways, or by a combination of them. First, it can be financed by higher taxes, an option which few if any people would support. Secondly, it can be financed by printing more money, thus watering down and debasing the worth of all money in the community. Thirdly, it can be financed by large scale borrowing by the Government, in competition with other borrowers. The effect of this third course on interest rates, which are already far too high, should be plain to everyone. I believe that one of the most important things we could do to reactivate the private sector of the economy, to get it moving again, creating more jobs and generating more growth, would be to get interest rates down. There is some movement on interest rates, but there can be no significant improvement unless inflation is reduced. Lower inflation will be followed by lower interest rates. So if we are to bring down inflation and interest rates and make a real impact on the whole economic situation, the Budget deficit must be brought down to more acceptable levels. 
We have made good progress towards that objective. In our first year we pulled the Budget deficit down from over $4.5 billion to $2.7 billion. This year it will be $2.2 billion. Contrast this with Labor's performance. In the 1974-75 Budget Treasurer Crean estimated the deficit at half a billion dollars. It turned out to be five times that sum. The Hayden Budget of 1975-76 estimated a Budget deficit at $2.8 billion- which was bad enough- but when we took over from Labor it turned out to be $4.5 billion. We were left with what to many people might have seemed an impossible task, that of cutting the Budget deficit- which was at the heart of the problem- bringing down the inflation rate, restoring confidence and incentive to the private sector and attacking the massive and tragic problem of unemployment. I think it needs to be understood that there is no simple way in which all of these objectives can be achieved at once. 
No one would dispute the statement that the fundamental cause of our problems is inflation. The key to solving our problems lies in controlling inflation. That is why the Government at the outset, and without deviation since, has firmly committed itself to bringing down the inflation rate. We will continue on the course we have set ourselves with the utmost resolution, because there is no other way we can solve the serious economic problems which we inherited from an extravagant Labor Administration. This will mean continuing stringent controls over spending. It will mean continuing denial of many of the worthy claims made on the Government for assistance. Of course we would like to see more money going into all sorts of areas- education, local government, roads, social welfare and soon. 
I would especially like to see more things being done for the beef producer, who has been through and is still suffering difficulties which are quite beyond the comprehension of many people in the community. The Government as a whole is very much aware of the beef producers' situation. Measures have been brought in to try to sustain producers through this period of low prices. Strenuous efforts have been continued to develop new markets and to improve existing ones. Carry-on finance has been made available and rural reconstruction assistance has been provided. But it is quite obvious that more has to be done, and more will be done within the constraints the Government must observe in the current economic situation. 
I think there is general agreement on the need for the introduction of a classification scheme. This would be necessary before consideration could be given to the development of a national marketing scheme for the industry. I hope that the commercial trials of classification equipment now under way will provide sufficient information on which to base a decision to proceed with a classification scheme. I have no doubt that the Commonwealth will stand ready to play its full part in the implementation of such a scheme. It will be looking to other means of helping the beef industry. But it has to be remembered that nothing the Government does will have the same effect as a substantial rise in cattle prices. That is the only real answer to the cattlemen's problems. 
It seems to me that there is a need for a much wider understanding of the difficulties of primary producers and the consequences which flow to those who suffer in the community as a result of the difficulties of primary producers. A prolonged recession in the rural sector or in any major part of it must have serious long term effects. Those effects are felt not only by individual producers and their families but also by communities, districts, regions, and in fact the whole community. The rural industries today are becoming more mechanised, more capital intensive and more input based. Their fortunes are reflected back in the fortunes of other parts of the economy. A strong and prosperous rural sector brings tremendous benefits to the whole Australian community. A rural sector in difficulties creates problems for many other people in the community. I hope the community as a whole understands that the Government has a responsibility to take action to alleviate rural problems in the general interest of the community. 
But I must remind the rural community, as I remind everyone else, that its basic problem is inflation. Inflation is the farmer's greatest enemy, and that is why I want to see the Government stick to its guns in the fight against inflation and stick to the course it has set itself to beat inflation. It would be easy and popular to spend a lot of money on schemes to create jobs but this would simply increase the deficit, worsen inflation and, while appearing to reduce unemployment, only mask the real extent of the problem and in fact contribute to worsening it in the long term. Those people who say that the Budget fails to address itself to the problem of unemployment are wrong. In its concentration on reducing inflation the Budget addresses itself to the very heart of the unemployment problem because the fundamental cause of unemployment is inflation. 
To take another example, it would be easy and popular to spend much more money on education, to provide a bigger increase than the 10 per cent extra allocated in the Budget, to spend more than the $2,37 lm set aside. I hope those people who are demanding more money immediately for education understand that so long as inflation continues the value of every dollar spent on education will be reduced, that we will not get a dollar's worth of value out of every dollar spent unless the destructive and debilitating effects of inflation are controlled. 
I think this Budget shows that while the restoration of non-inflationary economic growth is the Government's primary objective, we are not pursuing that objective blindly or unfeelingly. Despite all our inherent difficulties the Budget shows recognition of those areas requiring improvement in the lot of our fellow Australians who most need it. Social security and welfare spending will increase by 12.7 per cent in 1977- 78 following an increase of 27 per cent last year. This year assistance to the aged rises 17 per cent and pensions remain fully indexed. Full indexation of pensions means a real increase in pensioners' incomes. Special assistance to the handicapped is up 33 per cent. That we have been able to do this and to bring in major tax reforms while bringing the inflation rate down from 17 per cent to 10 per cent must be acknowledged as a major achievement and as evidence of the success of the Government's policies. 
The benefits of our tax reforms are real. Our tax indexation commitment announced before last year's Budget saved taxpayers close to $ 1,000m in 1976-77. It will save a further $ 1,000m this year and, without the profound reform announced in the Budget, would have saved an additional amount of $900m in 1978- 79. But on top of this-and I repeat on top of the $900m- the radical movement in the flat rate of tax will return to the taxpayer a further $400m this year and nearly $ 1,000m next year. These are net figures which take into account the half indexation figures to apply for 1978-79. They are over and above what our commitment to indexation would have given, and indexation of course will be fully maintained in future years. 
These restorations amount to an average of more than $700 being returned to each employed man and woman. But their significance is much greater than this. Ninety per cent of Australian taxpayers will now pay only 32c tax in the dollar on overtime, on working harder and on successfully building up their businesses. Those people at every level of income who wish to work harder will have a great incentive to do so. This is the only road to our goal of non-inflationary growth. If people increase their earnings by their own exertions Australia will benefit by higher levels of output and higher levels of demand. This will be a real demand increase, not a spurious inflationary demand increase which Labor is advocating with its spend now, earn later policies. It will be a demand increase spurred by improved productivity. As the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has pointed out, the economy is not solely in the hands of the government of the day. This is nowhere more true than with unemployment. Since our return to office numbers employed have increased by only1 per cent. This increase has been insufficient to prevent the unemployment rate rising by 0.8 per cent to 5.4 per cent. 
That rise was made inevitable by the policy of the honourable member's Labor Government. Workers are unemployed now because they are being priced out of work. Their labour is too expensive for the employers in the private sector to justify taking more people on. This is made abundantly clear in the studies undertaken by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. For recent years, these figures show conclusively that Australian private sector wages have outpaced productivity to a greater degree than in any other OECD country. When a wage increase is granted the employer must bear the cost not just of the actual increase but also of a large additional increase as well. This additional cost, on top of the wage, is made up of the extra payroll tax, the workers' compensation costs, the employer's contribution to superannuation funds, annual leave loadings, holiday pay, sick leave, long service leave as well as the higher costs of overtime. The cost to the employer on top of the actual wage rise is somewhere between 40 per cent and 50 per cent. I suspect that this extra burden on the Australian employer is considerably heavier than any similar burden carried by his competitors in other countries. When this is understood, the Government's concern over the part being played by substantial wage increases in compounding our economic problems and in delaying a solution should be better understood. The Government has taken action only on those aspects of economic management over which it has control. Our role in wage policies is confined to submissions before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. In fact we have made submissions but these have not been accepted by the Commission. Our employment policies have been affected as a result of the setbacks of the Commission's decisions. 
This Budget, like last year's, keeps the reduction of inflation firmly in focus as our primary objective. The Budget recognises that lower inflation and lower interest rates are the only way to achieve stable self-sustaining growth. It recognises that a lower budget deficit is the only way to get inflation and interest rates down. This Budget will be remembered most for its profound reforms of personal income tax. It will be remembered as the Budget that returned the incentive for people to work harder. It will be remembered as the Budget which allowed the $12,000 a year worker to increase his earnings without running into taxation at 45c in the dollar. It will be remembered as the Budget in which the $15,000 a year worker saw his marginal tax rate drop from 45c in the dollar to 32c in the dollar. It will be remembered - 
-The honourable member for Melbourne does not like remembering any of this. It will be remembered as the Budget which brought about the first major reform to simplify our complex tax system. It will be remembered as the Budget that put 90 per cent of taxpayers on a flat rate of tax of 32c in the dollar for earnings above the $3,750 a year which is tax free. It will be remembered as the Budget which raised non-taxable income to a level of $3,751. It will be remembered as the Budget that allowed the taxpayer with a dependant spouse to earn almost $5,500 before having to pay any tax. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The Minister's time has expired. 
I join the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in this condolence motion on the death of Les Haylen. I speak particularly on behalf of those members of my party who were here with Les Haylen. They will remember him as one of the memorable characters of this House. He was a very effective parliamentarian. He was a hard-working member of the Opposition who had a very quick wit. Anybody who had the audacity to interject on him would very quickly suffer the effects of the very sharp tongue that he had. 
Les Haylen had a wide experience. He had a rural background. He was a very good soldier, a journalist and an author, and for 20 years he served as a member of this Parliament. I always think of him as one of the old school, of the Chifley and Curtin type, who was rugged but underneath all that was a very likeable, very polite and very gentlemanly person. Most of those who knew him will remember him that way. Many of his works as an author were translated into other languages. I recall that some of them were translated into German. On one occasion the late Arthur Calwell said that the reason we had so many German migrants in Australia was that they had read Les Haylen 's books and had gained an impression of Australia. I am glad to be able to make these remarks about a memorable character of this Parliament. I express sympathy to his widow and family. 
-This very difficult matter continues to be in a state of suspense. For two to three months now the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Ltd, acting as agents for the Queensland Sugar Board, has been having discussions with the Japanese refiners to try to obtain a satisfactory solution. The honourable member will be aware that in 1 974 an agreement was entered into between the Japanese refiners and the CSR for the supply of sugar on a long term contract basis over a 5-year period. At that time that contract was welcomed by the Japanese refiners and the Japanese Government as being very satisfactory. Now we have a situation in which the Japanese refiners have dishonoured that agreement. We have a huge amount of sugar in ships in Japan waiting to be unloaded but, because the Japanese have been refusing to accept it, it continues to stand there. This is causing enormous anxiety to the Australian sugar industry and to the Australian Government as some $60m-odd is held up there. That means a cash flow to the Australian producers is being held up. 
The Japanese refiners have made a counterproposal which would mean a loss of some $3 15m on the initial contract in the remaining 3 years of that contract. They have suggested partial compensation for an extra 2 years, which would compensate to the extent of $71m. Moreover, the nature of the Japanese import and the support arrangements is not such that a reduced contract price would result in a lower price being paid by the consumers in Japan. However, the Queensland Government has completely rejected the proposal. I think we ought to recognise that Japan is coming under the spotlight of other Australians who want to trade with that country on a long term basis. Also, the rest of the world must start to wonder how valuable are long term contracts with Japan if this one is not to be honoured. It is a very serious matter. It is growing in intensity each day. 
-The honourable member apparently wants the Government to enter into a commercial arrangement, which is a matter between the sugar industry and the Japanese refiners. I think all of us hope that a solution can be found. The normal course of redress in this case, if there is a deadlock, is for the matter to go before the British courts where an arbitrator will make a judgment. But I hope an answer will be found before that situation is reached, and I hope that the Japanese interests and the Japanese Government, which must recognise the pressures now being applied, will come to an early decision. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government will be examining the matter of the provision of funds for research in the light of the recommendations contained in the Report on Solar Energy from the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources, and advice on energy research and development to be provided by the National Energy Advisory Committee and the Australian Science and Technology Council. It is relevant also that the report of the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources is of the opinion that solar energy will not make any significant contribution to Australia's energy needs before the end of the century. (2), (3) and (4) The answers to these questions are contained in the answer to Senate Question No. 544. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Department of National Resources is currently undertaking a national survey of energy research and development in Australia. The survey of Commonwealth Government departments and instrumentalities has commenced, and State governments, universities and private companies will be approached in due course. 
It was decided to undertake this survey in recognition of the fact that the formulation of an energy research and development policy which will make the most effective use of the nation's research resources cannot take place without detailed knowledge of the existing research effort 
I am delighted that the Leader of the Opposition has this new-found interest in water resources. After the performance of his Government of slowly eliminating a national program of water resources he is now starting to find that such a program has certain electoral merits. Obviously he is trying to reactivate some credibility in Queensland by taking an interest in water matters. However, the proposals mentioned by the honourable gentleman were included in a long list of proposals that were given to him when in government by the Queensland Government. Of course at that time the Labor Government did not find it appropriate to provide funds for these schemes. These matters, along with many other water proposals around Australia, are now being examined by my Department. It is the intention of the Government to come forward with a national water resources policy. I hope that I can make a statement on this matter during the course of this Parliament. 
-Negotiations started again this week in Geneva between member countries of the international sugar agreement. The meeting is a continuation of the negotiations which broke down in May when the participating countries thought that we would have an extension of the previous sugar agreement negotiated in 1968 but new factors were brought in relating to stock holdings. This produced numerous complications. Figures which were introduced were unrealistic and imposed enormous burdens on sugar producing countries to hold sugar and to provide the storage facilities. As a result, the conference broke down. In the meantime, private negotiations and discussions have been taking place in which Australia has been playing a major part. 
As a result of an encouraging response from a number of countries which saw problems, this conference has been reconvened. It is hoped that we may be able to come to some sort of agreement. I think this is even more imperative now than it was when the conference met in May because the world price has gone down by about another 50 a ton to just over  1 00 a ton which is quite ruinous for most sugar producing countries. Along with most of the other Ministers, I shall be attending the last week of the conference when it will be getting to the crunch point of quotas and stock holding figures and obligations being imposed upon countries to find ways and means of financing these arrangements. I am hopeful that something positive will come out of the meeting. 
Australia plays a major role in this conference. We are the second largest exporter to the free market. Because of our long association with international commodity agreements we are looked to for guidance and help. We have a large team of competent and respected technicians who provide a lot of the basic information. If a new agreement is achieved I think a great deal of credit will go to the Australian team which is made up of representatives of the sugar industry, the Queensland Sugar Board, CSR Ltd, and the Queensland Government, as well as the Department of Overseas Trade and the Department of Primary Industry. 
-One of the exciting events that occurred in South Australia a few years ago was the discovery of uranium at Lake Frome and Mount Painter. During the last 12 months a very extensive ore body which is combined with copper has been discovered at Roxby Downs. It is quite obvious that in South Australia there is the potential for significant development of uranium mining. That is something that did interest the South Australian Government very much. It carried out an extensive study of the uranium industry and also of the possibility of establishing a hexafluoride plant and an enrichment plant. For reasons which I find a bit hard to understand clearly, the Premier,  Mr Dunstan,  in about March this year, no doubt because of the influence of some of the left-wing and communist elements in that State said: 'No, we are not going to take any interest in uranium'. 
South Australia is a State which is really lacking in resources and needs more potential and more job opportunities. I know that some of the unions would certainly like to get involved in mining so that they could broaden the base of employment opportunities in industry in South Australia. I feel very sorry for South Australians because they have such a negative Premier who does not want to develop resources so as to increase the wealth and opportunity of all people in South Australia. We have to acknowledge that it is a very big State but its potential for development is limited. Vast areas of it are desert and it is very hard to increase the population in those areas. But here was a chance, with three uranium deposits which could go ahead subject to environmental study. The Government has - 
-Listen to the honourable member from South Australia. No wonder he is sensitive. I think that the South Australian people ought to know who is holding back development in that State. We want to see more opportunities but the Premier there is all words and front, instead of going ahead and increasing the wealth of that State. All that South Australia gets from Labor is additional imposts on industry and private enterprise which is trying to create jobs. Nowhere does this portray itself more than in the decision not to mine uranium. 
In this House last session I presented a very large report-a report that took two years to prepare in South Australia- on the uranium industry. That report said that if Australia went ahead with the development of a complete uranium industry there would be 10,000 jobs for people during the construction stage; 5,000 people would have permanent jobs in the mining operations; 2,000 people would be employed in enrichment and 3,000 people would be employed in research and development. Of course South Australia was desperately hoping that this industry would go to South Australia. That is why it spent such an enormous amount of money in preparing a very extensive report. This report stated- this was  Mr Dunstan  's report- that there would be employment for 20,000 people and that directly and indirectly half a million people would benefit from the development of an integrated uranium industry in this country. All I can say is that it is an ostrich attitude for people to bury their heads in the sand if they really believe in the welfare of South Australia and the development of opportunities in that State. 
I have listened with disappointed interest to the speech by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  One wonders what motivates him to make such a speech. No doubt he is pandering to some of his friends somewhere along the une within the socialist movement. He did not really deliver his speech with much fire and brimstone. There really was not much fire in his belly during his speech. It was just a prepared document which obviously he intends to circulate amongst some of his pseudo intellectual friends within the socialist movement. It was a rehashing of the great old catchcries about foreign investment, multinationals and oil companies. We have heard it all before. But what is so obvious about the honourable member's speech is the air of disappointment and resentment at the fact that something is starting to happen in the coal industry in Australia. 
-Bitterness? It is complete sour grapes. What did we see happen during the Labor Government's term of office? We saw absolutely nothing. The Labor Government suffered the consequences of its own socialist policies and its complete incompetence and inability to gain the confidence of the people to invest in and to develop the great coal resources of this country. Now we are seeing things hapen. Perhaps the motive of the honourable memer really is to undermine confidence. Perhaps he is trying to be subversive in order to make people rather dubious about investing their money in Australia and to make them think that if ever there is another change of government there will be the quick implementation of Labor's policy of nationalising the coal industry in this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Blaxland will resume his seat. That is not a point of order. I call the  Deputy  Prime Minister. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The fantasy which the honourable member mentions is the current policy of the Labor Party which is to the effect that it generously would allow some foreign ownership. But that was not the policy that came out of the previous Australian Labor Party Conference and that is not the policy which is emanating from the Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress which is currently in session in Sydney. If it were in government the Labor Party would want complete control and ownership of Australian resources. It would not care how much harm it did to Australia in the process. Why did we see that sordid and scandalous affair concerned with overseas borrowings? What was the whole motivation of the Labor Party? It was to buy out foreign interests so that it could take complete control of Australian resources and put Australia into hock. It did not care how it went about it It did not care about going through the back door and back alleys to borrow money from dubious sources - 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I understand the sensitivity of honourable members opposite. When a party has suffered the worst defeat ever in Australia's electoral history on this issue, of course there will be some reaction. 
-The honourable member for Blaxland talked about New South Wales. He talked about the British Petroleum company buying into the Clutha company. There has been no change in the percentage of Australian ownership as a result of that deal. It has been through the Foreign Investment Review Board. What is he complaining about? Is he complaining about one foreign company moving in and replacing another foreign company? 
Then there is the case of the Shell company buying into the Thiess company. That transaction resulted in an 8 per cent reduction in Australian ownership, from 92 per cent to 84 per cent. Is it Australian Labor Party policy that it would not allow even 16 per cent foreign ownership? Is that what the Labor Party disagrees with? We want to know, the Australian people want to know, the people in the coal industry want to know and the people overseas who want to invest want to know what Labor Party policy is. The trouble with the Labor Party is that it will not come out in the open; it will not come clean about it. When we came into office we laid down firm guidelines on foreign investment and takeovers. We established the Foreign Investment Review Board which examines all these things. The transactions between the BP and Clutha companies and the Shell and Thiess companies were approved by the Board after examination. There is no room for disagreement. It is in the interests of those coal mining projects to get more capital so that they can expand and so that there can be improved working conditions and more opportunities for the people who work in those mines. 
When talking about New South Wales, why does the honourable member for Blaxland not refer to the visit to Japan just recently by the Premier of that State? He came back and preened himself about selling out the New South Wales Electricity Commission mine at Newnes near Lithgow. He sold 49 per cent of it to the Japanese without even offering Australians the opportunity to buy into it. It is sheer hypocrisy for Labor Party members to talk about a foreign sell-out when its leaders engage in that sort of behaviour. They have no principles and no standards whatsoever. All they do is become emotional on the foreign investment issue. They will not stand up - 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

-Of course they are getting upset. They hate to hear it. They should criticise the Premier of New South Wales. At least we in the Commonwealth Government do things decently and in a proper, orderly manner; but the New South Wales Government will come at anything. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Wills knows that that is not a point of order. He will resume his seat. 
I find quite amusing the knowledge that there is such a conflict in the Labor movement. When it comes to a quid it will sell out to anybody, as we have seen in the case of  Mr Wran  from New South Wales. 
Let us look at what is happening. When we came into office we said that we wanted to get development going, following three years in which not one major project got under way because of the Labor Government's doctrinaire policies. What have we seen? Approval has been given in relation to three big projects in Queensland. Norwich Park has been cleared. What has happened with the Utah company there? Whereas previously there was only about 10 per cent Australian equity, under the arrangements that we reached with Utah on Norwich Park the Australian equity was increased from 10 per cent to 20 per cent. 
-Big deal? What did the Labor Government do? It did absolutely nothing. It did not even get the development of the mine under way. We have increased the Australian equity in Norwich Park and got it proceeding. We have been able to clear Hail Creek and we have been able to clear Nebo. An Australian company has been able to take up an interest there. We have been able to get the Gregory project under way. All of these things involve enormous increases in Australian equity. The Tahmoor project in New South Wales is now proceeding. These projects represent countless millions of tons of coal. Yet during the term of the Labor Government nothing happened. 
Let me illustrate the confidence which has developed in the Australian coal mining industry. We all know the difficulties which Japan is experiencing in the form of a downturn in steel production and a lack of sales. Japan previously imported a quite high percentage of its coal requirements from the United States. During the years 1974-75 to 1976-77 Japan's imports of coal from the United States have dropped from 25 million tons to 17 million tons, and Australian sales of coal to Japan over that same period have increased from 21 million tons to 24.5 million tons. At a time when Japan has reduced its production we are actually selling more coal to Japan, and we will continue to sell more coal to Japan in spite of the competition from - 
What does the honourable member think is happening now? He says that we are getting the credit for increased sales now. The Labor Party will take the credit for anything. It will take the credit for the approval of the development of these mines. That development is what is making the honourable member so upset. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! No point of order is involved. The honourable member for Blaxland will cease taking points of order which he knows are not points of order. 
-The record of the development of the coal mining resources in this country is very impressive. Equity in Utah has been increased. There has been talk of actual Australian ownership in coal decreasing. That is mainly because the statistical definition of ownership is measured against actual production. Increased production is largely due to the efforts of Utah which tends to bring down Australian ownership. It is actual production taking place and not a change of equity in itself. 
Opposition members say they do not want foreign capital. How will they get into the business of coal conversion which will require enormous technology and enormous funds? 
-Does the honourable member want coal conversion? It will take an enormous amount of expertise which we do not have. At the moment New South Wales- honourable members should remember that New South Wales is a Labor State- Victoria and the Commonwealth have come to an agreement with the German Government and German industrialists to carry out a $3m feasibility study on coal conversion. If that study proves successful a $50m pilot plant will be established. If this is successful we will need a $ 1,300m coal conversion plant for which German technology and funds will be required. Yet the way Opposition members are talking today is detrimental to encouraging people overseas to invest in these projects. The huge Millmerran coalfield in Queensland lends itself to coal conversion. Foreign interests are involved in this coal conversion. 
Why should we not have foreign investment provided it meets our equity guidelines which are being applied thoroughly and properly? We want to see 50 per cent Australian ownership. If there is a worthwhile project in which we cannot get Australian participation but which could go ahead with foreign money, of course we would let it go ahead. We want to see more development, more jobs and more prosperity. We want to see more wealth for all Australians. Opposition members are so hidebound by their doctrinaire philosophy that they do not care about the circumstances in Australia. They are more concerned with pursuing their philosophy than with looking after the welfare of Australians. We know from experience and the long history of this country that Australia has done far better than most of the other countries around the world. Why? It has been run on a private enterprise system in which people have been encouraged to come to this country and develop resources. We will continue that philosophy because we know that it will be the most successful for this country. 
The sort of rubbish we have heard today is obviously an exercise for some intellectuals. Those in the coal mining industry who need more capital, who want to replace obsolete equipment and who need to expand find that by taking in overseas partners- in some cases they have only a small interest as I mentioned in respect of the Shell Company moving into Thiess- they can get new plant and equipment and make operations better for their workmen and coalminers. But the Opposition would rather keep things retarded. We are making Australia one of the leading exporters of coal in the world. We are doing that by sensible, practical policies without any stupid emotionalism about foreign investment and foreign companies. While this Government keeps control of the situation it will not mind foreign investment in the Australian coal mining industry. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The  Deputy  Prime Minister's time has expired. The discussion is now concluded. 
-The following answers are provided to the honourable member's questions and are based on information provided by the Australian Bureau of Statistics: 
Estimates of the balance of trade between Australia and each of the ASEAN countries for calendar years 1972 to 1 976, after adjusting export and import statistics to a balance of payments basis, are as follows (in $A million): 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am informed that the Department of Overseas Trade has no record of having received representations from Japanese sources late in 1975 that certain moneys were paid by a Japanese company to a member of the Foreign Investment Division of the Treasury in respect of a foreign investment proposal. 
However, early in 1976, 1, as Minister for Overseas Trade, received a confidential submission from an Australian source who called on me to discuss matters of general trade relations with Japan. In that submission there was an assertion that a joint venture between Australian and Japanese companies was submitted for approval to the Committee on Foreign Takeovers, that the Japanese company used an Australian firm to do a feasibility study on the venture, that the principals of this firm claimed that they had connections with the previous Government and for a consideration of $10,000.00 would ensure that the application was not rejected, and that this money was subsequently paid. 
) This assertion was passed by the Department of Overseas Trade to the then Chairman of the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee in the Treasury. 
to (6) The assertion contained no information which would have permitted investigation by the Department of Overseas Trade. 
-There are two aspects at which one should look when examining the referendum issue: Firstly, the suggestion of a referendum has been put forward by the Australian Council of Trade Unions, in a threatening and challenging way, to a government exercising its right to make a decision on a very important issue. The Government has no intention of bowing to the ultimatum of the ACTU. It believes that it has a responsibility to investigate the issues thoroughly, to source all the information it can and then to make a decision- and this it has done. Secondly, although a referendum may sound to some people an easy or ideal way to resolve the question, it oversimplifies the matter. In fact, it is frighteningly simplistic. 
-The honourable member may think the same, but the leader of his party does not think so. I would like to know what is the thinking of the Australian Labor Party on this matter. I think the Leader of the Opposition is fully aware of the complexities which have to be taken into account when assessing whether we should mine and export uranium. Some of the complexities one must take into consideration are: Our contractual commitments-obligations which were entered into prior to 1972, which the Whitlam Government said would be honoured and which we said would be honoured; our commitment to the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty; the handling of waste material; the further proliferation of nuclear material around the world; the codes of mining and the safety of people involved in the milling of uranium; the environment; national parks; and Aboriginals. All these are extremely complex questions and must be looked at to get a total picture. That is what the Government has done. 
In the second Ranger report the commissioners pointed out that the question of proliferation- the most, important question of all- involved aspects of international relations including trade, diplomatic and defence considerations. They said that a decision as to the correct strategy on proliferation had to be made by those equipped to make it. The commissioners themselves refrained from making any recommendation because of the complexity of the matter. If the commissioners could not make a decision on it, I think it is asking a lot for the Government to leave it to the Australian public to make a decision. Apart from the matters I have mentioned, there is the question of supplying the energy needs of countries around the world which desperately need uranium and are looking to Australia to supply it. There are trade implications, and Australia's reputation is immense in this field. There is also the question of the reuse of energy resources. As oil reserves start to diminish, countries are being put in a threatening position in terms of how their future requirements will be met. All these are matters at which a responsible government must look. We have looked at them. We have determined a decision and we will defend that decision to the end. 
I was very fortunate to have discussions yesterday with  Mr Otto  Lang. It was a continuation of discussions which I had with him earlier this year on the possibility of a new international wheat agreement. As the honourable member would be aware, the present International Wheat Agreement expires next year, and as there is a substantial world build up of stocks, particularly in the United States of America and Canada, and increasing stocks in Europe and the Soviet Union there are great fears about the pressure being applied on the market by these stocks. Fortunately, the Australian situation is not one of anxiety. Our carry over from the previous season is relatively small and we seem to be able to market our potential production at the moment. 
However, the international situation will bear heavily on prices and needs to be watched closely. So the exporting nations have been consulting together, largely under the auspices of the International Wheat Council, to arrive at a new arrangement, and there is a new concept now being developed of quarantining reserve stocks when prices fall below a certain level and releasing these stocks when prices increase. This is a new approach to the problem of stabilising the world market. It involves action on stocks when the world market price indicators move across low and high levels between certain trigger points. These discussions have reached a fairly advanced stage. There will be meetings in Canada next week and in London in a few months. It is thought that it may be possible to reconvene a full meeting between exporter and importer countries early next year in the hope of bringing about a new agreement. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the National Energy Advisory Committee entitled 'Proposals for an Australian Conservation and Energy Program'.  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a statement relating to this report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) On 4 July 1974 the Queensland Government submitted a list of river basins and authorities, particularly River Improvement Trusts, which required, or upon further investigation might prove to require, Commonwealth assistance in dealing with flood problems. Some of the proposals listed had received, or were under consideration for, Commonwealth assistance. The river basins and authorities listed were: 
North Queensland- Ross River, Mulgrave Shire, Johnstone Shire, Herbert River, Haughton River, Don River and Burdekin River Improvement Trusts. 
Central Queensland- Fitzroy River and Tributaries, particularly the Dawson River, the Pioneer and Upper Pioneer River Improvement Trusts and the Proserpine River Improvement Trust. 
South Queensland- The Brisbane River and Bremer River system: metropolitan creeks; Nerang River; major creeks in the Gold Coast City and Albert Shire; Logan River; Albert River; Caboolture River; Pine River; Coomera River, Maroochy River; Noosa River, Mooloolah River; the Condamine River, Clifton, Glengallan, Millmerran, Wambo, and Jondaryn River Improvement Trusts; Bungil Creek; Warrego River; Mary River, Burnett River and the Kolan River. 
Ross River Dam $4.06m. Proserpine River $0.494m. Brisbane Creek $5. 5m. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
South Australia: 
Little Para Dam and appurtenant work. 
Morgan/ Whyalla Pipeline-Replace Concrete Main. 
Yorke Peninsula- Reorganisation and Augmentation including Relay. 
Paskeville/Moonta Trunk Main. 
Baroota Reservoir- New Spillway. 
Relay Mains- Western Water Region. 
Bern Irrigation Area Rehabilitation. 
Cobdogla Irrigation Area Rehabilitation. 
Berri-Cobdogla- Comprehensive Drainage Scheme Upgrading. 
Berri-Cobdogla- Water Disposal. 
Renmark- Water Disposal. 
Waikerie- Comprehensive Drainage. 
Waikerie- Water Disposal. 
Loxton- Water Disposal. 
Bool Lagoon Drainage. 
Effluent Treatment- Nairne Pyrites Mines Brukunga. Great Artesian Basin- Borehole Rehabilitation. Flood Mitigation and Groundwater Recharge SouthEastern Region Loxton- Common Effluent Drainage. Tailem Bend- Common Effluent Drainage. Goolwa- Common Effluent Drainage. Oakbank- Common Effluent Drainage. Kingscote- Common Effluent Drainage. 
Victoria: 
MELBOURNE AND METROPOLITAN 
Water Quality Works 
Maroondah Aqueduct Replacement. Treatment Plant- Yan-Yean/Greenvale. Silvan Chlorination Plant. Chlorination Works, Service Reservoirs. Fluoridation ( Financed by Health Commission). 
System Capacity Works 
Lower Yarra Development. Lower Yarra Land Acquisition. Thomson River Diversion-Stages 1 and 1 A. Thomson River Diversion-Stage 2. Thomson River Diversion- Stage 3. Thomson Dam. 
Dandenong- Notting Hill Main. Cardinia- Dandenong Main. Cardinia Reservoir. Yarra Valley Conduit. Silvan/Olinda/Preston Cross-connection. 
O 'Shannassy Reservoir- Yarra Valley Conduit Connection. 
Duplication Cardinia-Dandenong Main. Duplication Yarra Valley Conduit. Cardinia Pumping Station. 
System Capacity Works 
Greenvale-Yuroke-Sydenham Main. Sugarloaf-Morang Extension Main Sugarloaf-Preston Main (Morang Branch). Silvan Reservoir Outlet Pipework. 
Distribution Works 
Metropolitan Zones. Werribee Corridor. Melton Corridor. Plenty Corridor. Merri Corridor. Lilydale Corridor. Berwick Corridor. 
Continuous Programs 
Large Mains. Reticulation Mains. Cement Lining of Mains. Reservoir Covering. Minor Distribution Works. Watersheds. Water Meters. 
Drains and Rivers 
System Extension and Improvement. 
RURAL 
Water Storages 
Dartmouth Dam on Mitta Mitta River-North-Eastern Victoria. 
Mitchell River Dam- East Gippsland. 
Other Storages and Headworks 
Stuart Murray Canal, Northern Victoria. 
Waranga Western Main Channel- Northern Victoria 
Reconstruction 
Enlargement. 
Broken River Diversion to Goulburn-Murray Irrigation Districts, North-Eastern Victoria. Recreational facilities. Other generally. 
Irrigation Districts 
Irrigation Works. 
Drainage Works, including subsurface. 
Water Table and Salinity Control Groundwater Control 
Shepparton Region. 
Groundwater extraction and surface drainage improvement. 
Augmentation extension services (mainly but not solely in Kerang Region) 
Financial assistance to farmers (mainly but not solely in Kerang Region). 
Protection of River Murray Quality 
Barr Creek Salt Disposal Scheme 
reduction district outfalls 
b ) Lake Tyrrell disposal scheme. 
ii) Improvement Woorinen Disposal Basins- Swan Hill. 
Nangiloc-Colignan drainage disposal-Sunraysia Region. 
Mildura-Merbein groundwater interception and disposal. 
Continuing Investigations. 
Metering of authorised diverters/users of surface and groundwater resources 
Flood Protection Districts (Rural) 
River Improvement Trusts 
Water Research 
URBAN AND STOCK AND DOMESTIC WATER SUPPLIES 
Works Controlled and Administered by the State Rivers and Water Supply Commission. 

 Major Storages 

Rosslynne Dam- Maribyrnong River Catchment. 
Lake Merrimu Stage II- Werribee River Catchment. 
Lake Merrimu Stage III- Werribee River Catchment. 
Devilbend Reservoir Enlargement Mornington Peninsula. 
v) Tanjil River Dam Latrobe River catchment. 
Other existing. 

 Major Urban Systems (including main pipelines but excluding water quality works) 
Bellarine System-abutting Geelong growth area. 
Coliban System- Bendigo-Castlemaine. 
Mornington-Peninsula System South-East of Melbourne. 
iv ) Otway System- South- Western Victoria. 
Other. 

 Major Domestic and Stock Systems 
Millewa Pipelines. 
Other. 
Water Quality Works 
Coliban System. 
Mornington-Peninsula System. 
Otway System. 
Other Urban Districts. 
Fluoridation- major urban systems. 
Works Controlled and Administered by Local Authorities under supervision of Commission (including both Government Loan and Private Borrowing) 
Waterworks Trusts and Local Governing Bodies 
Melton- within Melbourne Planning Boundary. 
Sunbury- within Melbourne Planning Boundary. 
warrnambool South- Western Victoria. 
Other- including some 200 Trusts/Local Bodies within the State. 
Dandenong Valley Authority within Melbourne Planning Boundary. 
Latrobe Valley Water and Sewerage Board, Central Gippsland. 
Geelong Waterworks and Sewerage Trust, SouthCentral Victoria. 
Regional Drainage Authorities, North Victorian Urban Areas. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Information regarding current research into the use of solar energy is contained in the Report on Solar Energy of the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources. Further details of research programmes are contained in the official  Hansard  Report of the Committee's hearings. 
The most complete information on research and development expenditure related to alternative sources of energy which is available to the Government at the present time is set out in the answer to question No. 910 on page 2009 of Senate  Hansard  of 16 November 1976 and the answer to question No. 741 on page 265 of Senate  Hansard  of 24 August 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Total exports to Turkey were $8.1m in 1975-76 and $27.4m in 1976-77. Of these, $3.9m (48 per cent) in 1975-76 and $ 14.5m (53 percent) in 1976-77 were insured by EFIC. 
EFIC has advised Australian exporters of the problems in dealing with this market in the following manner 
a ) By a circular to all its policyholders; 
b) In its quarterly newsletter. 
In addition, the subject has been publicised in the Department of Overseas Trade 's journal  Overseas Trading. 
The following countries have recently been reported to have failed to meet or to be slow in meeting their import bills: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Information regarding current research into the use of solar energy is contained in the Report on Solar Energy of the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources. Further details of research programmes are contained in the official  Hansard  report of the Committee 's hearings. 
and (3) The most complete information on research and development expenditure related to alternative sources of energy which is available to the Government at the present time is set out in the answer to question No. 910 on page 2009 of Senate  Hansard  of 16 November 1976 and the answer to question No. 741 on page 265 of Senate  Hansard  of 24 August 1976. My understanding is that there is already considerable informal contact between people undertaking solar energy research in Australia.Further steps to facilitate this may be possible when the results from the national survey of energy research and development described in the answer to Senate question No. 449 become available. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. The Export Finance and Insurance Corporation has not made any loans under its export finance facility in respect of contracts in South Africa. As such loans involve a direct Government subsidy, to do so would be inconsistent with the Government's policy of not providing official encouragement of trade with South Africa. At the same time, however, EFIC's normal insurance and guarantee facilities are available to exporters engaged in trade with South Africa. 
Not applicable. In any event EFIC's facilities are limited to exports of goods which are produced or manufactured in whole or in substantial part in Australia. EFIC facilities would thus not be available for any export transactions with only 25 per cent Australian content. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
CD- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On Budget night I gave details of the Government's new crude oil pricing policy, which will begin the movement of Australian crude oil prices towards world parity. The Government is not in a position to directly stipulate the price of petroleum products, nor would it wish to do so. The wholesale prices for petroleum products which, in the view of the Prices Justification Tribunal, are the maximum which can be justified, are suggested by the Tribunal following detailed submissions from the product marketing companies. 
The PJT has recommended that the wholesale price of diesel fuel for automotive purposes be increased by a total of 7.8c per gallon to compensate for increases in the excise and indigenous crude oil price announced in the Budget. 
The final retail price of diesel for automotive purposes will depend on how retailers adjust their margins following the wholesale price increase. Dealer margins are likely to vary according to the degree of competition, location and storage costs. 
Integration of Aboriginals into Australian way of life  (Question No. 1305) 
-The Government has been very concerned about the limitations placed on beef imports to Japan. We have constantly had discussions at ministerial level and at official level to try to gain further access to that market. We will continue to do everything possible to see that there is an extension of the quotas already existing. However, one must remember that during 1974 and part of 1975 Japan had a complete prohibition on the entry of Australian meat to that country. Fortunately that has been eased. We would like to see it eased further. 
The honourable member referred to our domestic motor vehicle industry. I think it has been a long accepted practice that we give a degree of protection to Australian industries upon which so much employment is dependent. The motor vehicle industry needs a fairly high degree of throughput. Therefore it is important that we give a relatively high degree of protection to it. If we did not do so, the alternative would be merely to go back to an assembly industry rather than a manufacturing industry. During the years in which Australia has had a policy of encouraging the manufacture of Australian vehicles we have benefited enormously not only in the saving of foreign exchange but also in the investment in Australia to build these plants and the tremendous employment opportunities that it has given right along the line, in the production not only of cars but also of all the ancillary equipment that has gone into them. 
I am very pleased to be able to report to the honourable member for Wide Bay, who represents a very large sugar producing electorate, that accord has been reached between all the sugar producing countries of the world, whether they be cane or beet sugar producers, and the major importing countries on a new International Sugar Agreement, a commodity agreement the like of which we have never seen before. The International Sugar Agreement has a new added feature, largely being a mechanism by which stocks are released as prices increase to maintain a degree of stability in prices for the importing countries. 
-In view of that pending situation, we can understand the tremendous relief felt around the world that there is to be a mechanism whereby a price defence arrangement will be achieved by quotas being placed on production as well as stocks held. I am pleased to say that, although sacrifices will have to be made by all sugar producing countries as well as by Australian sugar producers, the net result will be very beneficial. For the benefit of honourable members, who obviously want more information on this subject - 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  I am trying to conclude what I want to say. However, now that members of the Opposition have asked me to make a statement in the House, I will oblige them and do so. I have been answering a question without notice but as this is a matter of extreme importance involving probably the most significant commodity agreement that has ever been reached and as it is the first of the integrated programs of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, I think it is important that everyone understands what is involved. I shall therefore make a statement in the House. 
by leave- Honourable members will be aware that the prime purpose of my recent overseas visit was to lead the Australian delegation to the United Nations Sugar Conference in Geneva, the object of which was to conclude the negotiation, commenced earlier this year, of a new International Sugar Agreement. There has been no international regulation of the world sugar, market since 1973 when the last Agreement, negotiated in 1968, expired. Negotiations in that year to conclude a new International Sugar Agreement were unsuccessful. 
I am pleased to be able to inform the House that, although the negotiations were most difficult and complex, the Geneva Conference last week finalised a new International Sugar Agreement Without any doubt this new Agreement contains the most sophisticated market regulatory mechanisms yet written into an international commodity agreement. The Agreement will now be considered by governments of all sugar exporter and importer countries including the Australian Government. Provided a sufficient number of importers and exporters accede to it the Agreement will come into effect from 1 January 1 978 for five years. 
The Conference was conducted under the auspices of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and was the first negotiation under the UNCTAD Integrated Commodities Program. It was attended by representatives of more than 70 countries covering virtually all the world 's producers and consumers of sugar. Sugar was the first commodity to be negotiated under the Integrated Commodities Program and the negotiations therefore had an international importance much greater than previous negotiations. If an agreement could not be concluded on sugar- a commodity which had previously been managed under an agreementthen the chances of negotiating other commodity agreements would be very much reduced. It is becoming increasingly understood and accepted that the world has much to gain by co-operative production and market management of food and raw materials. The Australian Government has long accepted this principle and has worked strenuously to achieve this objective. 
With sugar we have been involved in international discussions, negotiations and agreements for nearly SO years and this, coupled with our long involvement and experience in international commodity negotiations, has given us an expertise that has been of immense value to the sugar world and to UNCTAD in the recent negotiations in formulating effective mechanisms to bring about greater market stability. The major exporters involved in the Conference included Australia, Brazil, Cuba, the Philippines and Thailand. The major importers included the United States, Japan, Canada and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. The European Economic Community, although represented, did not play a prominent part in the negotiations because it did not receive a mandate to do so until the eleventh hour of the Conference. It has been left to the EEC to negotiate its terms of accession after the Agreement has entered into force. 
The negotiations were conducted against the background of a heavy world sugar surplus and falling world prices. From a peak of about 60 United States cents per pound or over $ A 1,000 per tonne in November 1974, the world price had fallen by September this year to 6.7c or $A132 per tonne and there was the almost certain prospect that, in the absence of an Agreement, the price would fall to 4c or Sc per pound or between $80 and $100 per tonne. The Agreement establishes a price range of 1 1 to 2 1 United States cents per pound- equivalent to $A217 to $A414 per tonne. Provision is made for review of the price range and upward adjustment when this is considered appropriate. This price range will be defended by a combination of global export quotas and stockholding provisions. Quotas and stockholding will operate when prices are low, and quotas will be suspended and stocks released as prices rise towards the maximum. When- with the operation of the mechanisms of the Agreement- the minimum price level of 1 lc is achieved, it will result in a lift in the returns to the world sugar industry of the order of $A2,000m. This is a benefit in which Australia, one of the major sugar producers, will share. 
The sugar industry is of vital importance to Australia, particularly to the people m the towns strung along 1,000 miles of the Queensland coastline and the north coast of New South Wales. The welfare of whole communities depends on the well-being of the world sugar industry. Cane sugar is Queensland 's most significant crop both in terms of large scale production and value. It also contributes substantially to Australia's earnings of foreign exchange. In the 10 years between 1966-67 and 1976-77 the value of exports of raw sugar rose from $A100m to $A630m. In 1976-77 this represented 12.4 per cent of the value of Australia's exports of rural origin and 5.5 per cent of total exports. 
Over the years our industry has developed to place Australia among the three largest exporters of sugar to the free market. Through research and the application of modern technology we have become one of the most- if not the mostefficient producers in the world. Our industry is based on individuality, with individual producers owning and operating their own farms and the mills operating as public companies or producer co-operatives. 
Under the new Agreement, Australia has been allotted a basic export tonnage of 2.35 million tonnes. All basic export tonnages will be reviewed after the first two years of the operation of the Agreement. To achieve the desired price effect, basic export tonnages of all exporters may be subject to an initial quota cut of 1 5 per cent as from 1 January 1978. Unless the International Sugar Council decides to the contrary, there could also be an additional cut of 2Vi per cent However, to ensure specifically that Australian mill peaks are in no way breached, a special provision was negotiated whereby Australia has the option of accepting the additional cut of 2V4 per cent or restricting its quota cut to 1 5 per cent and forgoing immediate shortfalls and quota increases until any benefits derived from the provision have been repaid. 
It was particularly important for Australia to ensure that mill peaks were protected. Each farmer and miller in Australia has a minimum production entitlement or peak. Mill peaks have never been breached in the 48 years this system has been in existence. They are a legal entitlement reinforced by precedent. Some mills in Australia accept production over and above their peaks. Such additional production is not covered by our entitlements under the Agreement, but producers can be assured that, as a result of these negotiations, their minimum production entitlement has been protected and can be maintained. Exporters will be required to hold reserve stocks totalling 2.5 million tonnes, their individual shares of which would represent about 15 per cent of their basic export tonnages. Such stocks are to be accumulated at the rate of 40 per cent, 40 per cent and 20 per cent in the first, second and third years respectively. Stocks are to be released at the upper end of the range in three equal tranches at the prices of 19, 20 and 2 1 cents respectively. 
The cost of storing reserve stocks will be very substantially assisted by a stock financing fund which is to be established under the control of the International Sugar Council. The income of this fund is to be derived by a levy on all sugar traded by members of the Agreement in the free market. This concept is a unique feature. It represents a breakthrough, not only for sugar, but also for many other commodities. It means that the cost of stockholding will be shared more equitably between exporters and importers. The fund will help the Australian industry with the cost of holding its share of the reserve stocks under the Agreement. Traditionally in international commodity agreements it has fallen to the exporters alone to finance the accumulation and holding of stocks. 
Australia has consistently held the view that as both exporters and importers derive benefits from the market and price stability which one can expect to flow from such agreements, both should be expected and prepared to contribute to the costs of stockholding. In the context of sugar, that principle now has been accepted. We will be looking to importing countries to apply the same principle in respect of other commodity agreements involving stockholding. These, then, are the direct benefits to Australia that will flow from the new Agreement. There will be a closely regulated and stabilised world sugar market with a price uplift to 1 lc to 21c which, at the minimum, will lift world sugar returns by the order of $A2,000m and a breakthrough in a new stocksfinance concept. But there are many other benefits. 
The new ISA will also place Australia's long term sugar contracts within the framework of internationally negotiated price objectives. The resultant price stability will reduce the pressures on contracts following the recent collapse in world sugar prices. The 11c to 21c price range objective, which has been accepted by a Conference involving all of the countries with which Australia has long term sugar contracts, is compatible with the price provisions written into those contracts. 
Furthermore, the United States, the world's largest free market importer of sugar, has indicated its intention of joining this Agreement. This has been our hope for decades. It will greatly strengthen the Agreement. It will also help enable the United States Administration to avoid the inevitable harsh alternative of tariff or quota action. Such action would not only be most detrimental to world trade in sugar; it would also give a greater competitive edge to the development of sugar substitutes and it would come at a time when the world is looking to major industralised countries, like the United States, to liberalise trade in the context of the multilateral trade negotiations under way in Geneva. 
Furthermore, the European Economic Community, the world's largest producer of sugar, is now seriously considering negotiating to join the new International Sugar Agreement. The effective participation of the EEC in the Agreement would be of immense value in further broadening the regulation of the world sugar market. To date the EEC has been unwilling to contemplate any meaningful disciplines at all on exports to help regulate the world sugar market. It is now willing to contemplate such disciplines. Again, this is not only of significance to sugar, but hopeful also in the context of discussions and negotiations going on in respect of other agricultural commodities. As one of the largest exporters of sugar in the world, Australia played a leading role in the Geneva Conference in enabling a successful International Sugar Agreement to be achieved in what was a most complex, protracted and difficult negotiation. 
A highly competent delegation, representing both the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments and the Australian sugar industry, worked tirelessly towards reaching a successful agreement. Australia has every reason to be proud of the key role it played in bringing together the interests of exporters, importers, developed and developing countries, both nonsocialist and socialist, and in helping to enable the negotiation of the most sophisticated market regulatory mechanisms yet written into an international commodity agreement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Yes. I do not recall precisely when the conversation took place, but it was during the time I was a member of the Opposition in 1975. From memory,  Mr Bracey  claimed he had information relating to overseas loans. I took no action in consequence of the conversation. 
3 ) As far as I can recall, none. 
and (5) Present members of my staff and, so far as I am aware, past members of my staff, have had no contact of any kind with  Mr Bracey. 
-At the moment a series of consultations is taking place between the Ranger joint venturers, the Northern Land Council which is looking after Aboriginal interests, the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development and the special advisory scientist regarding the standards of any mine that might be developed in the area. Until these arrangements have been satisfactorily concluded no approval will be given for commencement of the project. It is of interest that the honourable member should be so concerned about the development of this project, because it is absolutely vital if we are to meet our contractual commitments that this mine commence and that it be in production in the early 1 980s. To meet those commitments is in line with undertakings that the Leader of the Opposition gave in Mary Kathleen recently that the Australian Labor Party was fully committed to honouring contracts which had been undertaken prior to 1972. Those commitments can be honoured only by a continuation of the Mary Kathleen mine, plus additional mines in the Northern Territory of which Ranger will definitely have to be one. 
I think all honourable members would like to see more oceanographic work being undertaken around Australia so that we shall have a better understanding of the resources available. I am afraid that instead of a relatively small amount of money it can require a substantial amount of money to purchase the sort of vessel that we require. Whilst I am very keen that Australia should have such equipment, I am afraid that with the constraints applying to government expenditure at the moment it is not possible to do so. Government policy in earlier years had been to charter vessels to do this seismographic and oceanographic work. That was found to be rather expensive and Australia entered into joint arrangements with other international institutions whereby we could share the facilities. I think it is rather derogatory to suggest that we are just hitching rides with other institutions. What we are really doing is co-operating with other institutions and making the most of facilities available to provide that information. The Government certainly will be taking a continuing interest in this area and I hope the day will arrive when we can have the sort of vessel the honourable member has mentioned. 
-When final agreement is reached between the Joint Venturers of the North West Shelf, the Commonwealth and the 
State governments I will be only too happy to table such documents as are relevant to such agreement. The honourable gentleman canvassed the question of a trans-continental gas pipeline. This matter had been under discussion with the Joint Venturers, who discounted it as being an unsatisfactory way of handling the development of the project. They thought that it would delay the project and would add very significantly to costs. They were not interested in developing the project under those conditions. I think it is in the interests of Australia that this enormous project proceed as quickly as possible. What we know is that under the three years of the Labor regime there was no possible chance of these huge fields being developed because of Labor's foreign investment policies and because of its general opposition to the export of natural gas from Australia. 
The honourable gentleman says: 'Not so'. He is only partially correct. It was in the dying days of the Whitlam regime that honourable members opposite had to amend their policy decision in this direction because they realised that no development was taking place in Australia and that there was no way in which they would be able to get overseas and Australian interests concerned in the development of this huge field. I think we all should be pleased that we have been able to come to an agreement with the Joint Venturers, which are both Australian and overseas interests, to develop this field which at the moment is only marginally profitable. It is hoped, of course, that in the exploration of this area they will find additional fields of gas and that they will find oil. If they do either of these things to improve the profitability of the project it will be in the best interests of Australia as a whole. 
It is absolutely vital that the contracts entered into be honoured. A commitment has been given by the previous Government and by this Government that these contracts will be fulfilled. If, through any set of circumstances, they are not fulfilled, it will do immense harm to Australia's reputation as a trading nation. Companies in West Germany, 
Japan and North America have been waiting for a number of years to see whether these contracts will be honoured. We as a government intend to see that they are honoured. 
It is very interesting to note, as I mentioned earlier in Question Time today, that when the Leader of the Opposition was on his whistle-stop tour through Queensland and visited Mary Kathleen he gave a firm commitment to the miners there that the Labor Party when in government would see those commitments honoured and that they need have no fear whatsoever that their mine would not continue to produce. If that is the point of view of the Leader of the Opposition, he will also have to give a commitment to see that Ranger and Narbalek are developed, as well as the Queensland mines, because it is only by the development of these mines that we will have any chance at all of meeting our contractual commitments. 
If he does think that way- and I am quite sure he is supported by all the members of his party- he should tell the  president  of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Hawke,  just what is the policy of the parliamentary Labor Party because  Mr Hawke  has issued an ultimatum to the Commonwealth Government that unless a referendum is held within 2 months there will be no exports of uranium from this country and there will be no mining of uranium in this country. In other words, all of those miners at Mary Kathleen in front of whom the Leader of the Opposition preened himself and said that the Labor Government was responsible for the development of the mine and that Labor would ensure that the mine would continue operating will not have a job. It is about time that the Opposition, the Australian Labor Party, made up its mind as to whether it is going to hold Australia's name high as an international trading nation or is going to default on the undertakings it gave when in government. 
I will take a moment to reply to something that the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  had to say in his speech in which he made predictions of gloom and disaster. The honourable member likes idly to throw about words such as 'incompetence'. Honourable members will be aware of the dispute between Japanese refineries and Australian sugar producers in respect of Australia and Japan sugar contracts. This dispute has been of some concern to the industry and the nation over the last three months. 
The honourable member for Blaxland seemed to take great joy in thinking that this was a simple issue that could be resolved by thumping on the table, jumping up and down and by all sorts of threats being made between our two countries. I am very pleased to say that a commercial settlement has been reached this afternoon between the refiners and the Japanese producers regarding the shipments of cargo on the water of which there are 213,000 tons worth $80m. Agreement has been reached in terms of price so that the cargo can be moved as soon as possible. Now that this matter has been resolved between the commercial interests, I am greatly encouraged to believe that it will be a matter of time only before the dispute regarding contracts can be settled. But it is an enormous relief to know that this commercial problem- and it is a commercial issue- has been resolved in a sensible way without having implications for other areas of trade between our two countries. 
It would be so easy for a government to be unnecessarily provocative and to make the whole position much more complex and complicated by getting involved when really the dispute is between two contracting partners with which the governments have not been involved. I know that everybody will share my relief that the shipments will now be unloaded. I hope that the long term contract will be renegotiated satisfactorily and will continue. We have valued these long term contracts as a major advance in relations between our two countries. Japan is a country which needs assured supplies of raw materials. We believe that we have a reputation for being a dependable and reliable supplier, and we want to maintain that position. But if we find that contracts will not stand up to commercial pressures, the whole validity of such action is thrown into doubt. 
I must say that I believe resolution of this question and resolution of the contracts has been made much easier because we have been able to achieve an International Sugar Agreement which now assures Japanese refiners that the world price of sugar in the next few years will be in the range for which the contracts were signed. So they are now looking to the world price being in the vicinity of the contract prices. The absence of an International Sugar Agreement would have meant ruinously low prices and would have produced enormous complications for them in importing high price sugar at contract price as against market price, which is many times lower. It is with a great deal of pleasure that I am able to mention to the Parliament these facts and point out how groundless and weak were the remarks of the honourable member for Blaxland in criticising the Government for its approach to what was a most delicate question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) There are four libraries in the Department of National Resources. They are: 
Bureau of Mineral Resources Library- The BMR Library is located in the BMR Building (Anzac Park East Building), corner of Anzac Parade and Constitution Avenue, Parkes, Australian Capital Territory, and has branches in the BMR office, Darwin; and the BMR Geophysical Observatory at Mundaring, Western Australia. 
The main purposes of the BMR Library are: 
a ) To develop and maintain reference and research collections of monographs, serials, maps, microforms and other library materials in the geosciences and other relevant disciplines including the mineral industry, mineral resources of Australia and its territories, trade trends and statistics, petroleum technology and mining engineering. 
To store and organise for use, unpublished materials created by or received in consequence of the activities of the Bureau. 
To provide bibliographic, reference, loan, and information services to the staff of the Bureau and, as appropriate, to government and mineral industry authorities, and interested individuals. 
To co-operate with the National Library of Australia. Australian and State departmental libraries, libraries of tertiary educational institutions, the Australian Mineral Foundation and other libraries as required. 
Central Office Library- The Central Office Library is located in Tasman House, Hobart Place, Canberra City, Australian Capital Territory. 
The main purposes of the Central Office Library are: 
a ) To develop and maintain reference and research collections of monographs, serials, maps, microforms and other library materials in the variety of subjects related to the Department's policy functions e.g. mining, minerals, exports, power, fuels, energy, geography, cartography, economics, et cetera. Emphasis is placed on publications of Government and other official and semi-official agencies (State, National and International). 
To provide an information service to Library users covering all information available within the Department. 
To maintain the current awareness of all Depart mental officers in the subject areas concerned and to provide bibliographic and reference services to officers of the Department and associated Authorities. 
To co-operate with the National Library, University libraries, and Government libraries in both State and Australian Government Departments. 
Water Library- The Water Library is located in the Turner Offices, Childers Street, Turner, Australian Capital Territory with the Water Branch of this .Department 
The main purposes of the Water Library are: 
To provide library based services to officers of the Water Branch. 
To act as a repository for all reports and documents received by the Australian Water Resources Council from within Australia and overseas. 
To act as one of a system of regional water libraries in Australia which provides a coordinated system of library services to Australian water authorities. 
Hydrocarbons Library- The Hydrocarbons Library is located in the ANZ Building, 460 Bourke Street, Melbourne, with the Coal and Petroleum Branches of the Department. 
The main purpose of the Hydrocarbons Library is to provide normal library services to the fuel technologists and other staff in the Coal and Petroleum Branches. 
The Hydrocarbons Library will be amalgamated with the Central Office Library in the near future when the Coal and Petroleum Branches move to Canberra. 
(2)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The identifiable cost of administering the Export Market Development Grants Act was $638,237 in 1 976-77 and is estimated to be $786,000 in 1977-78. 
These amounts do not include the cost of common services provided by the Department of Overseas Trade and other Departments which are not separately recorded. 
Details are not available which would enable me to precisely answer the honourable member's question. 
As grants are limited by ceilings prescribed in the Act, it is not possible to dissect the cost to revenue of grant payments in relation to claims embodying both grant rates. 
However, in the first two years of operation of the scheme, the total grant entitlements according to the rate of grant and total cost to revenue are set out below: 
I think one can only look at the disruption of our export trade with a great deal of concern. There has been a great loss in our trade because of a wide range of disputes which have prevented trade. Certainly our international reputation is very much at stake with the threatened uranium ban. We also have much to answer for concerning our trade with Chile. Wheat shipments to Chile have been held up for a long time. There have been discussions and negotiations with the unions involved and the Australian Council of Trade Unions, but to date there has been no settlement of that issue. Some $100m worth of wheat trade with that area has been lost. We have also had serious disruptions to trade with Indonesia. In both cases the disruption has not been on industrial grounds but on purely political grounds. People with left wing socialist beliefs want to cause disruption to trade with those countries and therefore try to have some political influence on our foreign policy. There has been disruption to our sales of wool to Japan, which caused enormous concern to the live sheep and cattle industries which have great potential. Bans were threatened if the permissible limits that have been talked about to date were exceeded. Of course, we have lost on a number of other agricultural commodities, including dairy products, rice, honey and fruit. In all of these areas there have been periodic disruptions which can only lead me to say that sooner or later the Australian people must realise that the Government is trying to do as much as it can to resolve these matters and needs their support. How can we have a few militant union leaders trying to dictate what our foreign policy and trade policy will be? I can understand the feelings of rural producers who expend an enormous amount of effort with little return seeing their opportunities being forsaken because of the will of a few people who want to foster their socialist and communist political beliefs. 
-I do not intend to get into an argument with the honourable member as to the level of production at Mary Kathleen this year although I can soon find out that information and give the honourable member accurate figures. If the honourable member is expressing concern as to whether it will be 400 tonnes or 900 tonnes, the workers at Mary Kathleen should know that the honourable member would have no production whatsoever if he had his way. Why should the honourable member express concern as to whether the contracts will be fulfilled when his objective is to see that this Government completely dishonours its commitments and undertakings to people who are expecting it to supply that uranium? With regard to the contractual commitments undertaken by Peko EZ and Queensland Mines, the Government will use the stock pile from Lucas Heights to meet those commitments, as it has commenced doing already. The Government will endeavour to ensure that production levels at Mary Kathleen are kept as high as possible. I do not know why the honourable member should be so concerned because, when the Labor Government was in office, it took great pride in actually buying into Mary Kathleen to the extent of 42 per cent Government ownership. When the 
Leader of the Opposition was at Mount Isa only two weeks ago he boasted proudly and trumpeted loudly about how his Government had bought into Mary Kathleen and taken action to see that the mine was re-opened. I am very proud that he did so, but why does he not get the support of his Party and ensure assurance and security for the workers who have gone back to Mary Kathleen? Why does he not see that the contracts about which our trading partners are concerned are fulfilled and honoured and that there will be a firm commitment? Why does he not say to  Mr Hawke,  to the Federal Australian Labor Party and to the Australian Council of Trade Unions that whether or not there is a moratorium, those contracts will be honoured? That means there will have to be exports. That means that Mary Kathleen will have to proceed. That means that Ranger and Queensland Mines will also have to be developed. 
-I am quite sure that the honourable member for Kennedy will love to take that question back to the people of his electorate, particularly the workers at Mary Kathleen where it is now suggested by the Australian Labor Party that the mine be closed down. The Labor Party ensured that the Goverment bought into and took part ownership in that mine, and it also gave encouragement to CRA to open the mine so that we would have a uranium industry as part of our overall development including the developments at Ranger and other mines in the Northern Territory. There was a consultancy examination of the Mary Kathleen mine to see what was the feasibility of continuing the operation of it. That study showed that it would be a viable proposition but that it would need more capital for the purpose of maintaining its operations. The Commonwealth is meeting its obligations to see that the mine will continue in operation. By the time the ore body has been fully exploited there will be a profitability. In other words, the Australian taxpayers will get a return, although it will not be as attractive as the return that will come from the development of the Northern Territory mines. Of course, the honourable member who asks the question is not concerned about the profitability of uranium; all he is concerned about is that we have no development but have the maximum tension, irritation and embarrassment with our trading partners, thus putting Australia in the worst possible position in the eyes of the rest of the world. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department has 7 special libraries. A Central Library is in Canberra and a small library is in each of the Regional Offices located in the capital cities. 
The purpose of the libraries is to provide a specialised collection of world trade data for the Department of Overseas Trade and Department of the Special Trade Negotiator, in particular, and for other departments as necessary, and also for members of the business community. 
Overseas Trade Regional Office libraries serve the dual interests of the Department of Overseas Trade and the Department of Industry and Commerce and also provide world trade information to members of the public, primarily businessmen. 
(i) (ii) Information on former acquisitions is not available in the form requested. The number of items (both purchased and gratis copies) currently held are: 
Books, approx. 1 1,000 
Periodicals, approx. 1,000 titles 
Other publications, (pamphlets, reports, statistical publications, etc.) approx. 13,500 
Acquisitions proposed at this stage for the year 1977-78 number 
It is true that there are in Australia at the moment representatives of URENCO-CENTEC. They are exploring the possibility of being involved in an enrichment plant in Australia. They are well advanced in the centrifugal method of the enrichment of uranium. Therefore they are trying to get interested people in Australia involved in a joint or multinational venture, which of course would lead to very large expenditure. At the moment they have forward contracts to the value of about $ 1,000m. So one can say that they have a good deal of experience behind them. 
At the moment they are going around the various government agencies. They are having discussions with the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and with my own Department, and they are meeting with various State governments to see how much interest they can work up. They will be reporting back to me before they leave Australia. I will then have more detailed information to put to this House and the Australian people as to what is involved. I think all honourable members would welcome the opportunity of seeing more processing or upgrading of raw materials in Australia. If we are to proceed with the mining and export of uranium, it is only natural that there should be further upgrading so that we receive the maximum benefit. Such an enrichment plant would involve a very heavy investment and would provide additional employment opportunities in the area in which it was established. State governments have been extremely interested in such a venture. As I have mentioned to this House before, the South Australian Government was and, I believe, still is very keen to have an enrichment plant in South Australia. It is also interesting to note what utter confusion there is within the Labor Party on its uranium policy. In the Australian Labor Party's platform there is a clause which supports the enrichment of uranium in Australia. 
-That is very nice to hear. The Labor Party must have erased that clause suddenly because it was there during the course of the 1975 election campaign. Of course, the Labor Party had a lot of other policies while it was in office which dealt with uranium but now it is in Opposition it looks as though the Leader of the Opposition has lost control of his Party to the left wing influences which are doing their level best to stop development of uranium and to exacerbate relations with our trading partners. 
All I have heard about a change of heart by the New South Wales Government is that there has been a meeting between the Minister for Mines and Energy in New South Wales and the Premier regarding this matter and that that meeting has been deferred until tomorrow. Obviously, a good deal of concern is now developing in the New South Wales Government about the reaction to its virtual confiscation of half the very valuable Warkworth lease in the Hunter Valley. It is quite obvious from the reaction of the stock exchange, when Howard-Smith Ltd shares and Coal and Allied Industries Ltd shares fell very substantially, that there was a severe reaction. 
I think anybody who looks at the situation must be horrified and must deplore the action of the New South Wales Government, especially the way the Government went about it. It just went in and confiscated the lease. The Government said that the New South Wales Electricity Authority would be actively involved in a coal mine, but coal from that mine would not have any direct use in power generation in New South Wales; obviously it would be for export. But worse still, the Government used the excuse that it wanted to maintain Australian control and Australian equity in that operation. Only a few weeks earlier, the New South Wales Government used the Electricity Authority to sell 49 per cent of its holdings in Newnes near Lithgow to a Japanese firm. In that case, the actual foreign equity is higher than it would have been if Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd had come in and become a partner of the CAIL operation. 
All one can say is that there is a good deal of hypocrisy in the way that the New South Wales Government has approached this matter. The end result has been to put a great deal of fear into the minds of people who want to expand their operations or to carry out exploration or to invest in New South Wales. This must be looked at with glee by the Premier of Queensland who would see more people wanting to go to that State to invest when they have the fear or the threat of the New South Wales Government taking this sort of action. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l)and(2) 
No precise timing for achieving such a balance can be indicated as any projections of future trends would be little more than educated guesses. Trade projections for even 12-18 months ahead are hazardous, given the many variables of supply, demand, price and sourcing strategies involved. Australia's exports to ASEAN include bulk foodstuffs and raw materials which have been and may be subject to wide price fluctuations in international markets. 
Australia in recent years has had a surplus on its trade account with ASEAN, as shown by the answer to Question No. 1237  (Hansard,  page 13S9), but on the other hand, it has experienced a growing deficit on invisibles items such as transportation, travel, property income, etc. 
Although the Australian current account surplus increased slightly over the five years to 1975-76, existing trends indicate that this surplus could decline. Between 1971-72 and 1975-76, exports to ASEAN countries grew by 132 per cent, while imports from ASEAN countries grew almost twice as fast at 260 per cent. Over the same period, our net deficit on invisibles with ASEAN countries rose by 240 per cent. 
If recent years' experience were repeated, net identified capital flows (which averaged an annual net outflow of $2m in the 5-year period 197 1-72 to 1975-76) would not contribute significantly to net monetary movements between Australia and ASEAN. 
Telecom: Capital Works in the Electoral Division of Bowman (Question No. 1265) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) Coal-For coal mines it is not possible to give absolute capacity figures. However, a reasonable indication of coal mine capacity is given by current production rates. In 1976-77 these were: 
Black coal 85.9 million tonnes (yielding 69.5 million tonnes of salable coal) 
Brown coal 30.8 million tonnes. 
Iron ore- 123 million tonnes a year. 
Nickel-5.4 million tonnes of ore a year. 
Bauxite- 28 million tonnes a year. 
(a) Coal- Approximately 21 million tonnes of black coal a year, and 8-10 million tonnes brown coal. 
Iron ore- 10 million tonnes a year. 
Nickel-300,000 tonnes of ore a year. 
Bauxite- 1.25 million tonnes. 
b) Coal- There is a large number of projects under consideration covering all States. Development will depend on satisfactory marketing arrangements being concluded. 
Iron ore- Several new projects in Western Australia are under consideration. Actual capacity will depend on the successful conclusion of contracts with consumers. 
Nickel-One project at Forrestania, WA is currently being considered. Details of its likely rate of production are not known. 
Bauxite- Several new projects, principally Alwest (WA), Wagerup (WA) and Aurukun (Qld) are under consideration. 
Coal-Studies that have been made indicate great potential for growth in demand in a variety of world coal markets during the remainder of this century. If markets develop in the way expected, the Australian coal industry will need to expand its productive capability very greatly and most of the present projects, which are soundly based, can be expected to proceed. 
Iron ore- The companies with additional capacity under development have secured export contracts covering 8.5 million tonnes a year. 
Nickel- The world nickel market is currently in a depressed state and there are not sufficient new markets to absorb any large increase in production. However the 300,000 tonnes of ore a year increase currently under development has already been committed under contract 
Bauxite- The aluminium industry has been emerging from a severe recession and future prospects appear good. It is expected that increased export demand will account for the capacity increase mentioned in 2 (a), while most of the bauxite produced from the new projects mentioned in 2 (b) could be expected to be processed within integrated plants in Australia. 
Companies undertake normal commercial negotiations with consumers and compete for markets with other producers around the world. The Government maintains surveillance over the outcome of commercial negotiations to ensure the prices obtained are fair and reasonable relative to world market levels. 
No. The Government looks to normal commercial negotiations to result in fair and reasonable market prices. 
and (7) Information on company pricing is received by the Government on the understanding that it remains confidential. In any case there are difficulties involved in arriving at precise price comparisons as Robe River exports limonite ore compared with the hematite ore shipped by most other Australian producers. Moreover during recent contractual reviews not all existing contracts were up for renegotiation. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide the legislative framework within which the Government will implement its decision to provide assistance to the States for water resources projects under its national water resources program was outlined in my statement in the House on 17 August. Projects or activities for which the Commonwealth will be enabled to provide assistance have been defined as broadly as possible in clause 3 of the Bill. They encompass all aspects of water resources management for which Commonwealth assistance would be appropriateconservation works, water quality management, desalinisation of agricultural land, flood mitigation and flood plain management, and studies or investigations relating to all aspects of the assessment and utilisation of water resources and flood management. 
The Bill provides for the Minister to make agreements with the States on the terms and conditions of financial assistance for water projects and for copies of these agreements to be tabled in the House within 15 days after the agreement has been made. It also provides for future appropriations of funds by Parliament to meet the Commonwealth's commitments under these agreements. Clause 7 of the Bill provides an appropriation out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund of $lm. This will be used to provide assistance to New South Wales to meet the Commonwealth's commitment for urgent flood mitigation works on the coastal rivers during 1977-78. I should point out that since 1964-65 the Commonwealth has provided $ 17m in grant funds to New South Wales to implement the coastal rivers flood mitigation program on a 2:2: 1 funding basis- Commonwealth, State and local government authorities respectively. The Commonwealth has always accepted a contingent commitment in respect of flood disasters, and this particular program has without any doubt considerably reduced the destructive effects of these recurring natural hazards. It also has contributed significantly to the security of life in flood prone areas. 
This Bill marks a significant departure in respect of enabling legislation for Commonwealth assistance to the States for water projects. It is our view that a continuing legislative vehicle of this nature is more appropriate to the requirements of a long-term program than single purpose Acts as has been past practice. The proposed Act will reduce the legislative load in the House without in any way restricting the flow of information or opportunities for debate regarding Commonwealth commitments to the States for the assessment, planning, development and management of the nation's water resources. I was very heartened to hear in the course of a recent debate in the House of widespread concern regarding the Commonwealth's role in the development of our water resources. I would sum up the essence of the debate as being bipartisan support for a more active Commonwealth role. The Bill before the House is the first requirement towards this objective and the continuing nature of the proposed Act lends itself eminently to sustained initiatives by the Commonwealth to ensure the most effective utilisation of Australia's water resources. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
I really feel very sorry for the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  when he starts to make a plea that schools are going to be 5 miles away and that there will be some disability for constituents because of the enormous distances involved. Really I do shed a tear for him. It is a pity he would not shed a few tears for those people in country areas whose electorates have been made so very much bigger. The honourable member would not care one iota for them. It was the Australian Labor Party which decided to make electorates bigger by hundreds of thousands of square miles, to make them even more enormous. For example, the electorate of Riverina, which was a compact electorate and which had a community of interest, under the terms and conditions of the redistribution now takes in the borders of four States- Victoria, South Australia, the Northern Territory and Queensland. Goodness me, what an enormous electorate to have to represent! Yet we hear about people having to travel 5 miles to get to a shopping centre. I suppose they cannot even get a bus. Or is no helicopter service available? It is about time they started to realise how a few other people in Australia have to get on and how honourable members from country areas have to try to get around. They are lucky if they can get to all centres in one year. Yet honourable members from city areas are complaining about a distance of 5 miles. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for KingsfordSmith will cease interjecting. 
-The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith appears to be going off his rocker. Honourable members from city areas will have to represent 4 square miles instead of 3 square miles. They might even have to get on their bicycles instead of walking. Goodness me! When we hear all these complaints about manipulations and gerrymanders let us remember the redistribution that the Labor Government brought down in this House. In New South Wales the five seats with the largest numbers of voters happen to be enormous country electorates. The Labor Government lowered the numbers for the city electorates which are only pocket handkerchief size in any case. What could have been more of a gerrymander than that? Thank goodness the Senate was prepared to throw out the redistribution proposal and not accept it. While I cannot say that this redistribution fills me with much satisfaction it is a darn sight better than that brought down by the Labor Government. 
The National Country Party will not try to prevent these proposals being adopted. However, we take that attitude only with the greatest reluctance and with serious misgivings. To say we support the proposals would be to put the matter in the wrong perspective. We believe that they are grossly unfair to country people. They are based on a principle which is wrong, one which does not even apply. I have no doubt that within the Parliament, particularly on this side, there is a degree of understanding of, sympathy with and support for the point of view put forward by the National Country Party- that there needs to be a degree of tolerance to try to compensate for all the disabilities of the large country electorates. We say that all Australians wherever they live, should have the opportunity of at least some equality of representation. 
All parties, Labor, Liberal and our own Party, until recently supported provisions which would have allowed the electoral laws which have applied since Federation to be maintained. They provided for a tolerance of 20 per cent above and below the quota for electoral enrolments. Today it seems that only the National Country Party supports that provision. So far as we have been able we have endeavoured to have the 20 per cent provision restored. We believe that it should be restored. We will continue to try to have it restored. It is fair and reasonable and it has applied for a long time. The proposals which applied were based on rules which allowed a degree of equity. However, they have now been circumscribed so that the discretion of the Distribution Commissioners is exercised in a way which does not apply to any other democratic country in the world. I shall illustrate this point in a moment. I think that the claim we have heard so often, that Australia is now blessed with a system of one vote one value or close to it, should be exposed for its hypocrisy and nonsense. 
Under the electoral laws as they now stand, and as they were drawn up by the Whitlam Government, Australia's smallest electorate can contain 45,048 voters and the largest electorate can contain 8 1 ,457 voters- a difference of 36,400 voters. That was brought down under Labor's rules. What hypocrisy, what humbug for these self-styled champions of democracy to claim that they have prevented the destruction of democracy in Australia, that they enshrined the socalled sacred principle of one vote one value in our laws. Labor's rules, which have not been changed, allow for one electorate to contain 80 per cent more voters than another. What is the maximum tolerance in enrolments? Is it really 10 per cent? The average enrolment in Australia's 124 electorates is 68,906 voters, yet we have an electorate with only 45,000 voters and another which can have as many as 8 1 ,000 voters. That is a departure from the average not of 10 per cent but of 35 per cent below the average in one case and of 1 8 per cent above it in the other. 
These figures are based on the enrolments in the Northern Territory compared with the permissible enrolments in electorates in South Australia. Even if we regard the Northern Territory as a special case and base the comparison on electorates in Tasmania and South Australia we still find that, under Labor's rules, there can be as few as 47,162 voters in a Tasmanian electorate and as many as 81,457 in a South Australian electorate. That is a difference of 34,000 voters. 
-The honourable member says that it is in the Constitution, but if the principle is so great, why do honourable members opposite not work towards constitutional change? They will not do that. Of course, the principle is not great enough! It is quite all right for little, compact electorates in Tasmania to have smaller numbers but big electorates elsewhere have to have the normal numbers. We know how phoney the Opposition's proposals are. They are nothing more than a political device to try to concentrate political power and votes in the city areas, at the expense of country people. 
I said that there could be a difference of 34,000 in the number of voters in electorates. This means that there can be 73 per cent more voters in one electorate than in another electorate under 
Labor's rules. So much for Labor's principle of one vote one value. It means there can be a departure from the average of 32 per cent below and 18 per cent above. Yet Labor Party has hoodwinked many people into believing that it gave Australia one vote one value. What a fraud! What we have in Australia is a system which allows a far greater tolerance in electoral enrolments than the great majority of people believe is provided under the law. So why all this humbug about one vote one value? The trouble is that the tolerance is not applied when common sense and fairness require that it should be applied. The system requires that the tolerances I have described apply in a back-to-front manner. The result is that the relatively small electorates in Tasmania can have very small enrolments and that the large mainland electorates must have higher enrolments. It should be the other way around if honourable members believe in that principle so strongly. 
I said earlier that the Commissioner's discretion is circumscribed to a greater extent than occurs in any other country which can claim to have a democratic tradition such as ours. Let me mention two examples. In Britain in 1974 the larest enrolment was 118,000 voters in Antrim outh and the smallest was 23,000 voters in Western Isles- a difference of 95,000 voters. In Canada in 1974 the largest enrolment was 125,000 voters in Yorke-Scarborough and the smallest was 12,300 voters in Yukon- a difference of 1 12,000 voters. The British example is especially significant. Britain regards her electoral laws as being based on one vote one value but applies that principle, even in such a small, compact country, in ways that take greater account of factors such as remoteness, communication difficulties and distances, than we do in this vast continent of ours. Britain, in other words, does not adopt the rigid, unthinking, mathematical approach that we do, but tries to see that voters in every part of the country have some opportunity for equality of representation. I think it is about time we did the same. The National Country Party is in complete agreement with the Leader of the Opposition on this point- or at least with the views he expressed a few years ago when he was in a more rational frame of mind. 
Speaking in this House on an occasion which should be recorded in the history books, he said the 20 per cent tolerance above or below the quota was 'perfectly reasonable'. Let me repeat that: the Leader of the Opposition is on record in  Hansard  as saying that the 20 per cent tolerance is 'perfectly reasonable'. He emphasised that he was speaking impartially. 'I am speaking impartially and without party political bias on this matter', he said. He went on to say on the same occasion that the principles enunciated in the Electoral Act should be 'preserved and enshrined in the Constitution'. So what we have is the Leader of the Opposition saying, when he speaks impartially and without party political bias, that the 20 per cent tolerance is perfectly reasonable and should be preserved- in fact, should be enshrined in the Constitution. I suggest that all those people who have been conned into seeing the Leader of the Opposition as the great saviour of the principles of democracy ought to look at what he says when he speaks in different circumstances. 
The fact is, of course, that a 20 per cent tolerance is perfectly reasonable- for all the reasons I and others have described over and over again, in this House and elsewhere. A 20 per cent tolerance is absolutely necessary if the commissioners are to be able to draw boundaries that go even some of the way towards providing some opportunity for equality of representation. But we are told that it is far more important to see that there are more or less equal numbers of people in each electorate than to try to ensure that each elector enjoys at least some equality of representation with his fellow citizens. No one, except the National Country Party, is prepared to say that the rights of people, the interests of people, should come before theories based on numbers and an irrational attachment to an allegedly sacred principle- a principle which, in practice, is not applied. 
What we have is a situation in which hypocritical lip-service is paid to a principle while approval is given to a practice which ignores that 
Erinciple- and in fact turns it upside down. We ave a situation in which people are told that there is a 10 per cent tolerance, while in fact a 35 per cent tolerance is actually perpetrated in the current redistribution proposals; but, of course, it cannot be applied in a reasonable and sensible way, whereby the big electorates can get the tolerance that should be given. It is about time there was an end to all the nonsense and hypocrisy about one vote, one value. It is about time there was some attempt made to understand the real difficulties faced by country people in gaining adequate and fair political representation. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase the existing excise on coal from 10c to 15c per tonne for the purpose of financing coal research. The existing excise of 10c per tonne is used to finance the Coal Mining Industry Long Service Leave Fund. The additional 5c per tonne will be used for coal research. This follows the statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his Budget Speech on 16 August 1977 that the Government would levy 5c per tonne on coal produced in Australia, to which I referred in introducing the Bill to establish a Coal Research Trust Account. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
Considerable discussion has been proceeding and some very interesting remarks have been made in recent days. I think one of the most interesting remarks was the reaction of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to the comments made by  Dr Mabon,  who was in Australia to have talks with me, with the Government and with people from the uranium industry. I should have thought that the honourable member would value the viewpoint of another country, particularly a country such as the United Kingdom, which also has a Labor Government. I think some of  Dr Mabon  's remarks are very pertinent to the international situation as it exists today. On  AM  the other morning he said: 
What 1 am trying to say, particularly to our trade union friends in Australia, is that they really must understand that uranium for us is extremely critical for the wellbeing of the working people in Great Britain. 
I think that is a factual statement. Britain today generates 1 1 per cent of its power from nuclear sources. It was the first country in the world to embark on a nuclear power program. It has developed to be the second largest proportional producer of electric power in the world- second only to Switzerland. I think the remarks made by an eminent British Minister, such as  Dr Mabon,  should be considered seriously. 
It is interesting to see the remarks of the  President  of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Hawke,  who said that, whilst  Dr Mabon  had a right to make comments to the Government, he should not be making these comments publicly. I ask you,  Mr Speaker!  I should have thought that the pleas by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition ' and other Labor supporters for public debate would mean people making public statements rather than little private statements to the Government. This is where the Labor Party is in a confused, contrary situation so far as uranium is concerned. 
Might I add also that  Dr Mabon  was in Australia to talk very seriously about a long term uranium contract with the United Kingdom. He was canvassing the possibility of a contract from 1982 to 1995 for one thousand tonnes of uranium a year, worth $ 1,200m to Australia. This contract, of course, would guarantee to the United Kingdom during that period the supply of uranium so that the British Government can help the working people of England to remain employed. To Australia it means added income that will maintain the living standards of this country. If the Labor Party wants to disown a contract that this Government might enter into with the United Kingdom to help it maintain its economic stability, it is up to the Labor Party to tell the Australian people during the election campaign that it will disown such a contract. 
I understand that work has commenced on the clearing and levelling of the site for a proposed alumina smelter at Gladstone. It has been the Government's wish for a long time to be able to attract a major smelter works to Gladstone. The honourable member will recall that several years ago the Government involved itself in providing the bulk of the funds for the big power station at Gladstone and it hoped that it could interest Comalco Ltd. In fact, Comalco had the option of taking part of the power from that station at an attractive price so that it could compete with overseas smelters. I am now led to believe that early next year Comalco will be making a decision to construct a 320,000-tonne alumina smelter there, costing some $300m and providing about 700 jobs for people in Gladstone. I think that all of us welcome these sorts of decisions which are giving more job opportunities to Australians. 
But one has to recognise that between now and the beginning of next year a decision will be made to determine who will govern this country for the next three years. I think that a decision to return a Liberal-National Country Party government would more or less make it conclusive that such a smelter would be constructed at Gladstone, whereas any other decision, which I believe is most unlikely to be made, would put a lot of doubts and fears in the minds of people who have such very large contracts to consider. 
I am also pleased to say that Comalco has extended its Bell Bay smelter, and currently Alcan 
Australia Ltd is expanding by half its Kurri Kurri plant at a cost of about $45m. In addition, at Weipa in north Queensland Comalco is undertaking an expansion costing about $80m. Both Alcoa of Australia Ltd and Alwest have prospects for a further expansion in Western Australia. So all round the prospects for substantial increases in aluminium production are attractive but, I suppose, the final decisions will depend on the outcome of the election on 10 December. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to establish a Coal Research Trust Account for the receipt and disbursement of funds for coal research. This follows the announcement by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his Budget Speech of 16 August 1977 of the Government's decision to finance increased coal research by a levy of 5c per tonne on coal produced in Australia. The primary sources of funds for the Trust Account will be amounts received by increasing from 10c to 15c per tonne the existing excise on non-State owned black coal production in Australia together with amounts received from States in respect of brown coal and State-owned black coal not covered by the existing excise. 
In addition to identifying the source of funds the Bill describes the area of research to be covered and the method of disbursement. The Bill provides for the establishment of research advisory committees to provide advice and recommendations on appropriate research programs to be funded from the Trust Account. The importance the Government places on this area of activity is reflected in the contribution which the Government makes directly through the valuable coal research activities of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. More recently the Government decided to fund, in partnership with interested State governments and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany a study which will look at the economic and technical feasibility of a plant to convert Australian coals to synthetic liquids. 
As the major technological effort in this field is undertaken overseas, it is vital that Australia should pursue opportunities for international cooperation in coal research. In this context an agency-to-agency agreement on coal research co-operation was recently signed by the Department of National Resources and the National Coal Board of the United Kingdom. Similar agreements with the United States ' Energy Research and Development Administration and with the United States Bureau of Mines, which have recently been subsumed within the new United States Department of Energy, are at an advanced stage of negotiation. Part of the funds raised by the coal research levy will be set aside to stimulate research co-operation under each of these agreements. 
Expenditure on coal research and development in Australia has been extremely modest. In 1972-73 it totalled $5m rising to $9.5m in 1976-77. The measures now being introduced are expected to increase this figure by approximately $4m. The need for an expanded energy research and development effort has been recognised by Ministers with energy responsibilities from each of the major Australian political parties. At the 19 August 1977 meeting of the Australian Minerals and Energy Council, the Council expressed the unanimous view that there is a need for an active and co-ordinated national energy research and development effort. This judgment was based on the recognition of Australia s vast coal reserves; the certainty that without further major oil discoveries Australia will become increasingly dependent on imported oil; and the increasing attractiveness of coal both as a source of energy by itself and as a proven basis for the production of liquid fuels for the transport and petrochemical industries. The State Ministers agreed that there was need to pursue coal research and investigate feasibility in respect of better definition of coal resources, improved mining techniques, conversion of coal to gas or liquids and improved combustion of coal. 
This Bill and associated measures I am about to introduce represent an important step towards achieving these objectives. I commend this Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the States Grants (Coal Mining Industry Long Service Leave) Act 1949 to provide for two-thirds of the amounts raised as duties of excise on coal to be paid into the Coal Mining Industry Long Service Leave Fund. At the present time this Act provides for all amounts raised as excise on coal to be paid into the Fund. However, following the announcement by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in the Budget Speech of the introduction of a levy of 5c per tonne on coal produced in Australia to finance increased coal research, the excise on coal is being increased from 10c per tonne to 1 5c per tonne for this purpose. The effect of this amendment is to provide for two-thirds of the amount raised as duties of excise on coal after 2 a.m. on 17 August 1977 to be paid into the Coal Mining Industry Long Service Leave Fund. The remaining one-third will be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund for appropriation to the Coal Research Trust Account. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
There are very encouraging signs of increased investment in oil exploration and in mining ventures. Recently 14 new offshore permits were granted. This is the greatest number of exploration permits to be issued since the late 1960s. It shows the renewed confidence and interest that is now developing in looking for oil in Australia after the very dismal years the industry went through under the Whitlam Government. In the area of mineral development, I am very pleased to say that there is a long list of projects under way and I will just mention a few of them. There is the Hamersley expansion project worth $375m; the Robe River project worth $65m; the Weipa project worth 80m; the Alcan project at Kurri Kurri worth $45m; the south Blackwater coal project worth $72m; the New South Wales south coast coal project worth $80m; the Woodlawn base metals project worth $75m; the Agnew nickel project worth $120m; and the Western Mining Corporation nickel project worth $ 1 20m. Those projects have already started. There is on the verge of commencement other very substantial projects, such as the Norwich Park project which at the moment of course is held up by industrial trouble; there is the Gregory coal mine project which is a $200m project and the Oakey Creek project worth $120m. All these projects indicate the renewed confidence that people have in investing in Australia. On the drawing board there are projects on which no doubt decisions will be made next year. They include the Alcoa refinery project in Western Australia worth $650m; the Comalco smelter at Gladstone project worth $300m; further Bass Strait exploration which is worth about $200m; the Ranger uranium development which is worth $250m, and of course there is the North West Shelf development which is worth $2, 500m. 
During the two years this Government has been in office we have tried to demonstrate to the world at large that we have policies which will encourage people to invest and to develop our resources in this country. It is by the development of these resources that we have a chance of taking up some of the unemployment and bringing about business recovery, something which is much needed in this country. I venture to say that should a shadow be cast over the scene, should there be any suspicion of the doctrinaire approach that we saw during the 1972-75 period, not many of these projects will come to fruition. 
I share the concern of the honourable member for Maranoa about the worsening drought situation across Australia, particularly in Queensland where it is becoming widespread and is a little reminiscent of the very serious circumstances that Queensland experienced in the late 1960s. However, relief measures have been agreed to by the Commonwealth and Queensland governments and these can be brought into action immediately requests are made. Queensland is required to provide a base amount of $2m and after that the Commonwealth will meet obligations. Regarding the export of beef from Queensland, as in other States of Australia, there has been a very creditable performance over the last year by all parties concerned in exploring new markets, particularly in the Soviet Union, the East European countries and the Middle East. Of course, it is pleasing that we now have an additional 10,000 tonnes of beef going into the Japanese market. All of these facts mean that we are making record sales and the potential for the next six months looks very encouraging indeed. 
However, one of the things that are reacting against the industry, particularly in Queensland, is industrial trouble. It has not been possible to slaughter something like 250,000 head of cattle because of this trouble. It means that there are more cattle eating their heads off. The trouble has placed a burden on the market, which has tended to dampen down prices. The other day at the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council conference  Sir Samuel  Burston estimated that industrial trouble had cost the Australian cattle industry some $45m. With this on top of the difficulties the industry has at the moment, it is little wonder that the cattlemen are very concerned about the industrial troubles. I certainly hope that moderation and reason will be shown by the meat industry workers, to see that this sort of trouble does not continue. 

 -Yes, Mr Speaker. In today's Melbourne  Age  there is a report of a statement by  Senator Button  to the effect that I hold substantial media interests. That statement is not true. I hold no media interests. My wife holds 800 shares in Northern Rivers Television Limited which she has held virtually since the station started operating some years ago. I understand there are two million shares in that company. My wife's dividend last year was the princely sum of S50. Some of my wife's family hold shares in media companies. I do not know the extent of those interests and I accept no responsibility for them. I am making this personal explanation so that anyone who might be tempted to rely on  Senator Button's  statement will know that it is not true. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Indonesia took delivery of 5.3 per cent of Australia's exports of wheat and flour during the year ended 30 November 1976. 
Yes. Indonesia's present import requirements of wheat are about one million tonnes a year and it is forecast that by 1985 this could rise to about two million tonnes annually. 
Yes. In November 1975 a meeting of Australian maritime unions resolved in favour of a ban on the handling of Indonesian flag vessels and on war materials bound for Indonesia, in protest against Indonesian involvement in East Timor. The Australian Council of Trade Unions Executive in February 1976 passed a resolution endorsing the ban, which is still in effect. 
It is known that at least one Indonesian flag bulk carrier especially fitted out for the Australian wheat trade has been sent to the United States of America for the carriage of wheat to Indonesia. 
The ban represents a very serious setback to Australia's wheat trade, especially in the present market circumstances where there is a growing surplus of wheat in the world and Australia's competitors are making every effort to sell wheat in this area. The Australian Wheat Board advises that recent discussions with the Indonesians indicate that the removal of the ban would ensure that Australian wheat would continue to be purchased and the Australian share of the market increased. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As stated in the answer to question No. 1624, the GATT panel of experts, appointed to examine complaints relating to the United States Domestic International Sales Corporations (DISC) legislation, reported to the GATT contracting parties on 2 November 1976 that there was a  prima facie  case of nullification or impairment of benefits which other GATT member countries were entitled to expect under the General Agreement. No decision has yet been taken on the report although it has been considered at several meetings of the GATT Council. 
Asia Dairy Industries (HK) Limited  (Question No.  1698) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. Australia has no dairy products surplus to existing domestic and export requirements on hand at the moment because of the reduced level of production. It cannot be said that we are losing markets through lack of marketing effort. 
The market shares of imported dairy products for the years indicated (the latest available) are: 
Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1977: 
With reference to the Australian role in the provision of equipment technical assistance and training for the extension of centralised electrification systems m Asian-Pacific 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) The matters raised by the honourable member's questions were covered in my statement to the House on 24 August 1977 on 'The Development of the North West Shelf Gas Fields'. 
I am unable to answer that question off the cuff. I shall take it as a question on notice and give the honourable gentleman a reply. 
For the information of honourable members I present a resolution of the International Sugar Council for the third extension of the International Sugar Agreement 1973. 
No approval has been given at this stage for the commencement of mining for the Ranger uranium deposit. I made this quite clear. No authority will be given until all the appropriate measures have been taken. However, if work is to continue on proving up the ore body under a normal exploration licence that work can proceed. Work can also proceed on an extension of the road to Jabiluka which is part of the development of the whole region, including the potential national park. I see no difficulties with the development of the road, and I am sure that it is in no way in conflict with the Ranger report. However, it seems pretty obvious that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is determined that he will embarrass the Australian Labor Party throughout the election campaign by being absolutely adamant that it does not matter whether contracts are breached, whether relationships with other countries are strained or how he embarrasses the British Labour Government or anybody else. He is hell bent to see that no mining will be done in this country so that it appeases all his left wing and communist sympathisers. 
There has been considerable discussion with the Queensland Government over a number of years on assisting it to supplement its existing electricity network. Of course, the big contribution that the Commonwealth Government has made has been financial assistance towards construction of the Gladstone power station. It has paid the larger part of the cost of construction of that very large power station and has guaranteed the Queensland Government that further funds will be made available for continuing development of that station. The matter of hydropower which the Leader of the Opposition mentioned incorporates not only power generation but also the question of water resources. I have already made a statement to the House that the Government is looking at a national water resources program, for which legislation is now before the House, so that any agreements reached between the States and the Commonwealth can be implemented quickly. There will be continuing talks with the Queensland Government and other State governments on the question of water resources. 
Of course, we will integrate water resources programs into any electricity programs that the States might want to introduce. 
I am sure that the views of the Prime Minister and myself in relation to fuel prices in rural areas are well known. Indeed, if it had not been for the economic mess that we inherited from the Whitlam Labor Government, it would have been possible to reintroduce the fuel equalisation scheme which it abolished in 1974. Because of the constraints we have had to apply and the need for a responsible approach to economic management, we have not been able to reintroduce as many measures as we would have liked. I now see that apparently the Australian Labor Party is recognising that this is a political issue and it is talking about bringing in the equalisation of fuel prices. We have not heard any details as to what this scheme will be, but I suppose another $ 100m here or there does not really add much when Labor is promising thousands of millions of dollars. 
All I can say to the Australian people, particularly country people, is that they should remember very clearly the circumstances of 1974 when the fuel equalisation scheme was abolished. There was an uproar within the Labor Government at the time and the so-called rural rump was going to have it reinstated. So much for the rural rump. The thumb was put down very hard by  Mr Whitiam,  the then Prime Minister, who said that there would be no return of the fuel equalisation prices. What I say to the rural people of Australia is that when they hear these promises being made by the Labor Party they should ask themselves how much reliance they can place on them. All the experience and all the performance of the Labor Party have pointed to Labor withdrawing forms of support and assistance to country people. By contrast, when a Liberal-National Country Party government says something it does it. 
by leave- The purpose of this statement is to provide a summary of the more important aspects of the Government's energy policies to date and to outline some policy objectives for the future. In my statement today I will be dealing briefly with the rationale of energy policy, the usefulness of individual policy measures and general policy targets. 
The continued use of large and increasing quantities of energy by Australia is essential if we are to maintain our current living standards and see a continuation of reasonable rates of economic growth. Until the 'oil crisis' of 1973-74 it was widely assumed that growing world demand could and would be satisfied from established sources of supply without major upheavals. The Middle Eastern war of October 1973 and the subsequent oil supply restrictions showed dramatically how wrong that belief was. Secure and stable supplies of energy are now explicitly recognised as an essential ingredient of economic growth, and policy makers in the major energy consuming countries spend much time analysing energy problems. 
Many groups in the community have recently been expressing the view that there is a need for the Commonwealth Government to develop and implement a comprehensive energy policy, covering all forms of energy, because of the dangers and uncertainties that lie ahead in the energy field and the benefits that are thought to be likely to flow from far-sighted and resolute Government action. It is a view which we as a Government endorse. Usage of energy in our sophisticated industrial economy is so widespread that energy policy cannot be determined in isolation from other significant policy considerations. Our energy policy needs to recognise the interdependence of economic activities and the ways in which changes in energy costs and the availability of energy could affect the outlook for the economy generally, particular industries and private consumption. In our approach to energy policy we will be ensuring that these considerations are taken fully into account. Two of the most basic problems in energy policy are the conservation of energy generally, and the related question of the replacement of fuels in scarce supply by others in more plentiful supply- for example, oil by coal. Both these problems are linked to the more general problem of the need for a reasonable level of selfsufficiency in those major fuels. 
A number of countries have, under the impact of the oil crisis, adopted objectives of energy 'self-reliance', 'energy independence', or 'greater self-sufficiency' in energy. These have some of the characteristics of slogans. Nevertheless, there is a considerable amount of truth in the notion that self-sufficiency in major fuels is a worthwhile objective. There are strategic and political advantages in being relatively free of the threat of embargoes; there is also the probability of being able to avoid the very significant losses to national output of goods and services that would occur if embargoes were actually imposed. Some of these factors are quantifiable to a degree. On the other hand, efforts to achieve greater self-sufficiency can involve considerable costs for the consumer and the nation. It is necessary for governments to strike a careful balance between these costs and the benefits of selfsufficiency. Australia is, of course, self-sufficient in and indeed a major exporter of energy fuels, with the exception of crude oil. It is our dependence on imports of crude oil which brings into sharper focus and need for energy conservation, inter-fuel substitution, and energy research and development. It is in these areas that much of our energy policy efforts will be coming in the future. 
One of our main tasks as a Government in the field of energy policy is to develop, as far as practicable, firm and stable guidelines for the development of the energy industries. Firm guidelines are desirable because the lead times involved in major energy projects are frequently so extended that the commercial risks to private enterprise in undertaking its projects can rise to very high levels. This argues for the development of a national consensus in energy policy, to the extent possible, because private enterprise will continue to be wary of a situation in which the 'ground rules' could change drastically with a change of government. In addition to these considerations affecting the private sector, we as a Government may have to take decisions in the public sector affecting Australia's energy future, for example, on energy research and development, which have ramifications into the distant future too far for commercial interests to register effectively in the present. 
One of the main problems in developing firm and realistic guidelines for energy policy is, of course, the degree of uncertainty which exists as to the situation we will be in in 20, 10, or even five years time. Five years ago the present level of energy prices was predicted by almost no one, yet the effects of these price movements have been very far reaching. Energy is required as a complementary commodity to all other goods and services we consume. To attempt to develop on a rational basis a complete blueprint for Australia's energy future would be an exceedingly daunting prospect. Quite clearly, the Commonwealth Government's role should not be to attempt to dictate the precise future path along which energy producers and consumers should move. Apart from being repugnant to our philosophy as a Government, such an approach would be beyond our powers and almost certainly could not be made to work effectively in any case. It is, however, necessary to set the scene within which the private sector and government instrumentalities can operate with confidence, while, as far as practicable- that is, given our other objectives- allowing the forces of the market to allocate our available resources of manpower, capital, and technology. 
In one sense, Australia as a nation is still at a relatively early stage in the formulation of a national consensus in which all aspects of energy policy have been thought through in detail. Much public discussion will be needed before the finer details are settled. We are, however, well placed in another way in that the principal planks in our energy policy are to a large extent already in position as a result of the many important policy initiatives we have taken. The main policy initiatives we as a Government have taken in the field of energy policy over the last couple of years have been in the areas of mining taxation incentives, energy pricing, the administration of export controls, foreign investment guidelines, decisions on the development of uranium and natural gas resources, assistance to energy research and development, and the formation of energy consultative and advisory bodies. 
The incentives we have provided to the mining industries have been designed particularly to help the oil industry, for example, the provision for petroleum explorers to be able in future to write off their exploration expenses against income from any source. In general, the energy extraction industries have benefited from the new provisions available to the mining sector generally. These decisions have improved the economics and financibility of most energy projects. The decision on crude oil pricing has also markedly improved the economics of the oil extraction industry- and is of significance in another way in that producers of hydrocarbons now have some tangible evidence of government support for the concept of world parity prices for local energy sources. We have prepared the way for uranium mining and for development of the North West Shelf gas reserves by the provision of assurances to potential developers and by the appropriate safeguarding of environmental and other interests. I am pleased to say that this afternoon the companies have announced that they will now continue to proceed with the $50m feasibility study. 
We have diverted additional funds to energy research and development. Finally, we have taken a number of important initiatives in the setting up of consultative and advisory bodies in the energy field. These initiatives between them amount to a very considerable onslaught on the energy problems facing Australia. In fact it could fairly be said, on the strength of these initiatives, that we have given energy a high priority in our overall policy program. 
I will now deal briefly with the types of policy measures which are available for the implementation of our energy policies. Of all the measures which might be used to implement an energy policy, energy pricing is perhaps the most fundamental. Correct pricing will to a very large extent limit consumption of energy and encourage exploration for and development of new energy deposits. Other conservation measures- that is, provision of information- may also be able to play an important role. Encouragement of the substitution of fuels in plentiful supply for those in scarce supply may be economically feasible in some circumstances and efforts to develop means of converting plentiful fuels into scarce fuelsthat is, coal into oil- would be an even more direct way of tackling the same problem. The setting up of strategic reserves of liquid fuels may also be justifiable as a measure to give protection from supply embargoes. Finally, assistance to research and development, particularly in coal liquefaction and solar power, should assist in developing new options which we may be able to capitalise on at some future stage. Measures along any of these lines would involve costs, so careful judgments of net benefits are needed. 
Some further remarks on individual policy measures are in order. First is the price of energy. 
The price of energy provides a fundamental control of myriad individual decisions about the production and consumption of energy. The prices to which both producers and consumers react should therefore fully reflect the present and future value of our non-renewable energy resources. In practice, what this means in the Australian context at the present time is that policy measures will need to be taken to move the overall energy price level toward international parity levels, which have, other things being equal, a particular status as a measure of the relative values to the community of tradeable commodities. At the same time it will be necessary to ensure that the prices of particular fuels reflect the relative domestic scarcity and abundance of resources. In determining and influencing the price of energy in Australia we need to avoid making adjustments which are too rapid and which could cause serious damage to the prospects for industries using energy. A careful approach taking into account the fact that industry is a major user of energy is warranted. When considering the objective of moving energy prices towards international levels, we are, of course, aware that the Commonwealth Government does not have complete control over energy prices. Electricity prices, for example, are set by State electricity authorities. Domestic coal prices are set by the coal producers, many of which are vertically integrated with the electricity generation industry or with the steel and cement industries and which therefore may, and often do, transfer coal at prices which are not fully commercial. The Commonwealth Government can, however, exert some influence on other domestic energy prices through its control over the price of indigenous crude oU. For example, the increases in oil prices which we announced at Budget time can be expected to enhance the economics of possible large new gas projects by allowing domestic gas prices to increase further whilst still remaining competitive. The economics of coal to oil conversion processes and other new energy generation methods could also be favourably influenced by a higher oil price although these processes are still a long way from commercial feasibility in Australia. By promoting a price differential between oil and other energy forms, we could encourage conservation of oil, together with fuel substitution. Co-operation between the Commonwealth and State Governments will be essential in the implementation of the pricing aspects of a national energy policy. It will therefore be necessary for the target of moving energy prices toward international levels to be canvassed in the forum of the Minerals and Energy Council. Taxation incentives for the industries producing energy materials may assist new energy mining projects by making them easier to finance, but of course such incentives can be achieved only at a cost to Government revenue. Concerning energy conservation measures, improvement in the efficiency of use of energy will require wide public acceptance of the need for greater efficiency, and greater public knowledge and skill in methods of achieving it. An effective energy conservation program would essentially represent a campaign to change national attitudes in relation to energy usage. 
I endorse the National Energy Advisory Committee 's advice that conservation is the most effective action which can be taken to lessen our dependence upon imported oil in the immediate future. The Committee has recommended that a major national program should be undertaken to conserve energy, especially oil. Basically the proposed program calls for immediate action which could inform the public of the need to conserve, educate consumers as to how savings might be made, and provide specialised advice and assistance to energy users. Fuel savings would be achieved by means such as better maintenance of industrial plant and vehicles and increased use of insulation to minimise heat losses. Because the States have much of the expertise in the public sector, it is recommended that the national energy conservation program should be a joint undertaking of the Commonwealth and State governments, industry, and various other bodies. One of the most direct ways in which security in short term supply of energy materials can be achieved is by stockpiling of major fuels. The governments of several overseas countries, notably the United States of America and Japan, have already taken major measures along these lines. Only essential materials which could be vulnerable to supply interruption at short notice need be considered for stockpiling. For Australia probably only crude oil and/oil refinery products would qualify, as our supplies of oil in the future will depend to a large degree on its availability from OPEC countries. 
Prevailing forecasts indicate that a desirable timing for stockpile establishment, if this is necessary, would probably be the early to mid-1980s. The main value of inter-fuels substitution would be in diverting demand away from oil to other fuels, and in ensuring that all fuels are used in their most appropriate applications. At both the level of the individual firm and at the national level, inter-fuel substitution is likely to impinge upon national and regional policies other than energy policy, and some degree of conflict is inherent, particularly in respect of environmental objectives, economic efficiency, industry and employment policies, and with energy conservation itself. Quite apart from interfuel substitution, as such, there is also the possibility of actual physical conversion of one fuel to another. The principal practical possibility here is the conversion of coal into synthetic oil or gas. Basic to any discussions on the conversion of coal to oil should be the understanding that this is essentially a long-term proposition and is likely, in practical terms, to represent only a modest share of Australian oil requirements. It is no panacea. 
The quickest route to significant quantities of synthetic transportation liquids from Australian coal would appear to be the South African 'SASOL II ' process. However, this would be likely, in practical terms, to represent no more than 40,000 barrels a day, probably about five per cent of estimated total market requirements, by 1985. This route, with its significant chemical by-products, presents some problems for Australia. An alternative approach is the West German proposal for combining established hydrogenation, gasification and synthesis technologies. However, as this system is likely to require a demonstration plant to prove its effectiveness, the earliest date for a 60,000 barrels a day plant might be as late as 1992. This would probably account for about 6 per cent of our expected requirements at that time. Alternative approaches could be expected to take even longer time periods. For example, even with the rapid commercial development of solvent refined coal, commercial production would not be possible before 1995. The integration of pyrolysis with power generation would fit a similar time-scale. 
The only renewable energy resource which is likely to make a significant contribution to Australia's energy balance in the foreseeable future is solar energy. Solar energy is in fact, making a small contribution at the present time. The present main area of application for solar energy in Australia is the area of domestic applications typified by the flat plate collector for use as a domestic water heater at temperatures of around 60C. One area in which solar energy makes a small contribution at the present time is in solar evaporation in the Western Australian salt industry, while other areas of potential commercial importance are in the kiln drying of timber and in water desalination. Solar energy used for these purposes in Australia at present comprises less than 0. 1 per cent of total energy consumption- although it is possible that the contribution from solar energy could amount to several per cent by the end of this century. With the development of commercial solar collectors at temperatures up to 150C, solar energy could make a not insignificant contribution to Australia's energy balance by substituting for present oil consumption. Solar energy would be valuable in those sectors of industry, such as food processing, which use hot water produced directly and not from waste heat. 
In Australia there appears to be little possibility of generating electricity from nuclear power before 1990. At present, neither the Commonwealth nor the State governments and their instrumentalities have any intentions to proceed to nuclear electricity generation. New South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland have abundant reserves of low cost coal, and as yet nuclear generation cannot be justified on economic grounds. A major question for consideration is the extent to which assistance is provided to energy research and development. Past experience indicates that the development of new energy technologies to the stage of commercialisation usually spans several decades. If Australia is to provide for the future, it is very desirable that appropriate steps be taken now. This raises the question of the need for substantial government participation in all phases of energy research, development, and demonstration. Direct government funding will facilitate the integration of our national effort in energy research with overall policy objectives, and ensure that the research effort is properly co-ordinated. It also will help to ensure that the application of successful results is not unnecessarily restricted. There is a particular need for government participation in the demonstration phase of many energy technologies because of industry reluctance in this area. It is critical that effective vertical integration be achieved in these energy projects, and this will often be achieved by co-operation in joint ventures between industry, universities and government. 
I conclude this statement by sketching in some general policy targets to which energy policy should be directed over the next several years. The first target is to move crude oil prices in the direction of international levels. The first steps have already been taken towards this. There is no need, nor would it be desirable, for prices to move to world parity levels overnight. A second objective of a general nature, closely related to the first, is for the average rate of growth of energy consumption, particularly in liquid fuels, to be restrained. Prior to the rapid rise in energy prices in 1974, growth rates of energy consumption in Australia were in the order of  5Vi  per cent to 6 per cent per annum. Primarily as a result of slower rates of economic growth in recent years, the growth of energy consumption over the past three years has decreased markedly. It is projected that the average rate of growth in energy consumption in the period 1977 to 1985 might decline to about 3Vi per cent per annum. This would mean that consumption of crude oil in 1984-85 could be as much as 50 million barrels per annum below the level of consumption which would be indicated by historical growth rates. To the extent that this reduction in rates of growth in energy consumption is brought about through increases in energy price levels and by more efficient usage of energy- that is, not by reductions in rates of economic growth- it may be recognised as a sign that our energy policies are working. To assist in achieving this objective the recommendation of the National Energy Advisory Committee in its report on energy conservation will be studied and as appropriate developed into an action program. 
A third objective is the highest degree of selfsufficiency in liquid fuels broadly consistent with the economic utilisation of energy resources. Self-sufficiency in oil supplies is particularly relevant to the supply of crude oil from new deposits to be discovered and developed over the next decade or so- and as such is dependent to a large degree on the likelihood of success in discovering new deposits. It would not appear to be realistic, on the basis of presently estimated probabilities, to expect to achieve very high levels of self-sufficiency in crude oil supplies over the next 20 years or so, because of, amongst other things, the time lags involved in exploration and bringing new discoveries on stream. The continuation of substantial incentives for petroleum exploration and development will very probably be required. The possibility of establishing strategic stockpiles of major energy fuels will be investigated, and the potential for inter-fuel substitution will be fully explored. 
A fourth energy policy objective is that economic oil and gas reserves be developed. Known reserves of oil and gas in onshore and offshore fields yet to be declared commercial amount to 160 million barrels of oil and 6.6 trillion cubic feet of gas- not including reserves in the North Rankin, Goodwyn, and Angel fields on the North West Shelf. Prospects for the development of known oil fields yet to be declared commercial have been considerably enhanced by the new pricing arrangements for 'old' oil, and the other incentives recently introduced by the Government. Careful consideration will be given to the design of any secondary tax on crude oil to ensure that it will not detract from the economic viability of oil fields yet to be developed, The new pacing arrangements, and the possible application of new equipment and techniques, will be significant factors in reassessment of the viability of production from reserves in Bass Strait which until now have not been considered economic. The Esso-BHP partnership recently announced an increase of 329 million barrels in estimated oil reserves in developed Bass Strait fields, of which 35 per cent is directly attributable to the higher crude oil price now applicable. The proving-up of appropriate reserves, and the existence of necessary markets will be key factors in determining the viability of gas discoveries not yet considered commercial, especially in offshore areas remote from the coast. 
A fifth objective is to encourage individual major energy projects to meet overseas demand for energy minerals where those projects are economic and will provide an adequate return to Australia. Australia has a large number of new projects available to meet overseas demand for energy minerals. Much of the work needed to ensure the right climate for a new upsurge of mineral development has already been done- a very large proportion of it in the energy field. Foreign investment in developments arising from these objectives would of course be subject to the Government's foreign investment guidelines. 
Nevertheless, the danger of any renewal of cost inflation must be avoided. Internal economic and industrial conditions play a significant role in the evaluation of large projects through their effect on developmental and production costs. Most of the projects are export-oriented, with the prices obtained being determined by international factors which are not directly related to indigenous economic conditions. Australia is now poised to play a major role in meeting the world's energy needs. A recovery in world economic conditions will see this development take off. In the meantime the Government must continue to monitor events to facilitate the early identification of possible impediments and the development of appropriate policies to meet them. No changes to existing guidelines, that is, depreciation rules, will be made where these would be likely to have a detrimental effect on the energy industries. 
A sixth objective is that energy research and development be substantially increased. Special machinery will be established to administer the expanded program and allocate funds, and a high level body, having close links with the National Energy Advisory Committee, will be established to report to me, as -Minister for National Resources, on these matters. Pursuance of the policy targets which I have listed today will enable Australia to tackle its energy problems in a responsible manner, and with reasonable hope of being able to capitalise on the opportunities and avoid the dangers that lie ahead. Energy policy cannot, however, be determined in isolation, and must be consistent with other major areas of policy including those relating to the Budget and taxation, industrial and commercial development, overseas trade, and transport. I present: 
National energy policy- Ministerial Statement, 7 November 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department of National Resources is examining, inter alia, factors affecting Australia's energy balance, including the contribution of natural gas ana petroleum products to Australia's energy requirements. 
Also, the National Energy Advisory Committee which was established in February  1977,  to advise me on matters relating to energy policy, is directing its attention to a number of aspects of the same problem. 
As I announced to the House on  1  6 August  1 977,  1 am currently preparing a statement which will deal comprehensively with all forms of energy. That statement will be presented to the House as soon as practicable. 
(a) See the answer to Question No.  171,  Hansard,  4  May  1977,  page  1584. 
See (1) Above. 
I recall very well the High Court proceedings which made invalid and null the Petroleum and Minerals Authority created under the Whitlam Labor Government. That organisation was intruding into mineral activities which could well have been carried out by private enterprise or under State authorities. I am pleased to be able to say that in the case of the Wambo Mining Corporation $3m was repaid to the Commonwealth on 29 June 1977. In relation to Mareeba Mining N.L., its loan will be repaid by 1980. In the case of the Cooper Basin natural gas project which also has interests in petroleum exploration licence areas in South Australia, over a period of discussion with the South Australian Government we have been able to make arrangements to divest the Commonwealth's interest in this. We have been holding an 18 per cent interest in it. Whilst these negotiations have been somewhat protracted we have now reached a satisfactory conclusion. I hope to have the agreement signed by South Australia today and to be in a position later today to put out a statement giving the details. 
-My attention has not been drawn to these so-called threats by the Premier of Queensland; but I can well imagine the threats there would be to the people of these outlying areas if there were a change of government in Queensland, just as there would be if there were a change of government in the National Parliament. The whole performance of the Australian Labor Party over the years has been to concentrate expenditure in the public sector, and very much against the rural sector. One classic example was water resources. Under Labor Party policy we saw the tapering off of water resources programs over a number of years. Money for local government was contained to a very low level. When we came to office we ensured that more money would be made available for local government, and more money is being provided for local government. We ensured that there would be a return of many of the incentives and benefits to the rural community, and they have been returned. Under the Labor Administration they were taken away. The interpretation which the Labor Party is putting on the things which the Premier of Queensland has been saying is prompted by its own conscience. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Earlier this year,  Sir John  Kerr made a private visit to the Philippines to attend the International Law Conference. Whilst in Manila he paid a call on  President  Marcos and during their conversation,  Sir John  asked the  President  for his views on Philippines-Australia trade. However,  Sir John  offered no comments of his own on the subject and entered into no commitments. 
Suggestions to the contrary seem to be based on an inaccurate newspaper report which appeared in Manila shortly after the protocol call and which was substantially reprinted in the  Financial Review of 21  October 1977. 
The story cited by the honourable member contains the same inaccuracy. 
On behalf of my colleagues in the National Country Party, I would like to congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  on again being elected to the very high office of  Speaker  of this House. I recall pointing out two years ago that you had the experience and the qualities to make an outstanding  Speaker.  Two years have shown that you have excelled in this position. Your re-election confirms the faith of the members of this House in your ability to exercise command over it and to dispense in an unbiased and unprejudiced way the authority you hold in that chair. I am sure that in the ensuing three years you will have the support of members of this House. I congratulate you and wish you well. 
I wish to inform the House that I have been elected Leader of the National Country Party. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has been elected as my  deputy  and the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  is the Party Whip. 
I should like to congratulate the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar).  I have every confidence in his ability to be an outstanding  Chairman  of Committees. At the same time, I should like to pay tribute to the long and meritorious service of" the previous  Chairman  of Committees. 
I would like to join in the condolence motion moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the tribute and sympathetic remarks offered by both the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  We are paying tribute today to five former members of Parliament who dedicated their lives to giving public service to this nation. They are men we can all be very proud to have known or to have been associated with. I would like to speak of two of them because I remember them very clearly. One is Allan Fraser who was a well established member of this Parliament when I first became a member. I remember him as a very lively and very effective debater in the Opposition. When men like Eddie Ward, Reg Pollard, Les Haylen and the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  all got going the sparks really flew in the Parliament. Allan Fraser was a man I respected because of the effectiveness with which he presented his case. It was always analytical, yet if anyone crossed him he had a very sharp and cutting tongue with which he could quickly silence those who interjected upon him. He was a man of principle. He was a man who gave public service even after he retired from Parliament. He continued to participate in many of the public organisations in Canberra. He will be long respected and loved by those who were associated with him. 
I make special reference to my colleague Ian Pettitt. He was a chap who evoked great affection from all his colleagues. He was nothing more than himself. He was a good man through and through. He dedicated himself to doing the best he could for this country. He contributed in war. He contributed in farming organisations with which he was associated. He certainly worked as a dedicated man to try to be the best possible parliamentary representative for the electorate of Hume. If there is one single thing I remember about Ian Pettitt it is the way in which he worked tirelessly to try to give representation to that electorate. Few honourable members would have travelled more miles in a car each year than Ian Pettitt. He travelled some 40,000 or 50,000 miles trying to attend every single function within his electorate to which he was invited. He was an example to other honourable members of how one should look after his electorate, but he literally worked himself into the ground. 
He was a very good farmer and initiated a lot of new farming methods in his area. He was a leader, but he brought his association with the land into the Parliament. Whenever there was a debate dealing with rural affairs Ian Pettitt would always be involved in it. Prior to Christmas I, along with my colleagues the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  had the opportunity to visit Ian Pettitt on his sick bed. It was pleasing to be able to convey to him messages from his colleagues in the Parliament. He was always interested in what was going on. It was a very sad Christmas when he died on Christmas Day. Our sympathies go to his wife and three boys. He will be long remembered by his colleagues in the National Country Party. 

 - Mr Speaker, I would like to make a personal explanation. 
I am aware of the report. In making the statement I believe that  Mr Vanik  was being helpful to Australia in preserving its position in the United States market. At the moment there is no way in which we can get more meat into the United States or sell more meat in the United States because of the voluntary restraints which operate. These impose a ceiling of 301,000 tonnes of beef for this year. I believe that that quota will be filled. However, I believe that there are some prospects that there might be a relaxation of that quota. There has been a sharp increase over the last couple of months in the price of manufacturing type meats in the United States. Its national herd has receded considerably in the past two years. There seems to be growing consumer pressure to try to hold down prices in the United States. 
To assist in gaining further access to that market- we will also be trying to gain further access to other markets- the Minister for Special Trade Representations has been in Washington this last week. He will be further putting our case to see whether we can sell more meat. It is interesting to note in passing, however, that the American International Trade Commission found, following a request from American cattle producers, that imports of meat in the United States were not causing serious damage to the meat industry; nor did they look like causing serious damage to the American meat industry. So I am hopeful that in the not too distant future we will see some relaxation of the American restraints. 
-Trying to get the United States to reduce the duty that it has imposed on the importation of raw wool from Australia has been a continuing saga. We have always considered that this duty was unwarranted and unreasonable. However, it is highly likely- I do not want to refer to specific commodities- that this matter will come up for discussion in the course of the multilateral trade negotiations which are being lined up for about the middle of this year. Countries are requested to make a submission on offers in respect of which they will be prepared to negotiate. Of course, one of the issues that we have with the United States is the question of the entry of wool without duty. So, it is certainly hoped that we will be able to get into discussions with the Americans on this. Recently Ambassador Wolff was in Australia and during the course of discussions with him I did mention to him that we would be looking to some action being taken on the question of the duty on wool. 
-The Leader of the Opposition is referring to a document which was leaked during the course of the last Federal election campaign. That document, as was revealed, was some months out of date and needed to be revised in accordance with more up to date figures. It is true that we have a balance of payments situation that cannot be taken complacently. Therefore, it is the Government's policy to ensure that the strategy that we are following in trying to get more investment in Australia under way will be pursued. If we can do that it will help with the balance of payments situation not only in regard to capital inflow into the country but also in regard to developing industries which will help to earn overseas exchange. 
Pursuant to section 88 of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Act 1974, I present the annual report of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
We have been listening to a rather hysterical performance by a person who obviously is obsessed with bitterness and hatred. I think it is very timely that we have a public debate on this issue because it gives people the opportunity to recall the events of 1975 which led to the bitterness of the Australian Labor Party being displayed. If there is an inherent weakness in the Labor Party it is its unforgiveness. If it dislikes someone it will hate that person until he is dead. The Labor Party is trying to make life impossible for a man who did what was right and proper for his country. I believe that the bitterness and vindictiveness which the Labor Party is displaying towards  Sir John  Kerr has no place in Australia and will be supported only by a minority of people. If the Labor Party wishes to pursue  Sir John  Kerr and not let up on him it will continue to take the consequences which the Australian people have demonstrated on two occasions. This will happen because what  Sir John  Kerr did in 1975, whether the Labor Party understands it or not- and perhaps it will never understand- was right, proper, correct, legal, constitutional, necessary and inescapable. If the Labor Party continues to pursue him the Australian people will overwhelmingly reject it as a bitter party which wants to keep divisions within our society and not accept the facts of the day. 

 Sir John Kerr has paid an enormous personal price for the action he took. He has paid an enormous price to the people who were his friends and associates and to the government that appointed him to do the job, a government which respected his service to the country. But when this man saw the need to act, and to act correctly, that government turned against him. In fact, members of that government and its supporters have virtually exiled the man from this country. The Labor Party has pursued this vigorous and personal vendetta not because he did anything wrong but because of its own bitterness and resentment at being denied the chance to carry through its plans to smash our democratic system and the principles and traditions by which we govern this country. It was denied the chance to govern this country without the authority of parliament and without Supply. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  said today that Supply should have been allowed to run out before the Governor-General exercised any judgment. What a defeatist situation that would have been. We would have reached the point of chaos before action was taken. As it was the Governor-General allowed the matter to go on for three weeks before he took action. He took action at the last moment. But no, the Labor Party believes that when it appoints a person that person must, at all times, do exactly what it tells him. Well, there are a few people of principle who are prepared to accept their responsibility in respect of the job they are doing and thank goodness that  Sir John  Kerr accepted his responsibilities. 
-The Labor Party continues to pursue the attitude that the then Government was changed by  Sir John  Kerr. That is not true. What  Sir John  Kerr did was to give the Australian people the right to determine who should govern the country and who was right in view of the circumstances. If that is an attack on democracy it is the first time that democracy has ever been threatened by giving the people the right to vote. Yet that was the nonsense we heard right through the 1975 election campaign. If the 
Labor Party felt that this was an emotional issue of the moment it certainly did not display itself in the result of the 1977 election when the people again had the right to vote and again supported the actions of this Government. 
I believe that the performance of the Labor Party in the last few days in relation to this matter again shows that it is not prepared to change its ways. Anyone who questions  Sir John  Kerr's suitability and qualifications for this appointment ought to spend a few minutes in the Parliamentary Library. If they look through the Australian Parliamentary Handbook they will see the responsibility and service he has given to this country.  Sir John  Kerr's appointment to the position of Ambassador to the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation is to a position in which we know there will be increasing work activity this year. It needs a permanent official. He is a man who can admirably fill that job. But the Australian Labor Party will chase  Sir John  Kerr to the grave. Under its philosophy there is no forgiveness for a person whom it believes has scabbed. A scab, no matter how right or honourable he is, who goes against the principles of the Labor Party must be destroyedhe must be annihilated. There are people who are prepared to stand up to defend the parliamentary system in Australia. That is what  Sir John  Kerr did. 
One issue which seems to concern many people is the former Governor-General's pension and salary he will receive in his new post. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  pointed out, it was the former Prime Minister,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, who took action in this Parliament to ensure that holders of public office would not have to forfeit their pension entitlements in the event of those people accepting another public position. I think that is correct. Does the Labor Party now dispute what its former leader did? Does this anger apply to all former holders of public office or only to  Sir John  Kerr? Of course, it would not apply to a certain appointment to the High Court of Australia. Was the change made at the time to suit a particular appointment- maybe the one at the High Court? Would the Opposition have the Parliament pass special legislation now to allow it to pursue further this vicious vendetta so that one man cannot get his pension or cannot have the job? 
Is it suggested that the pension which attaches to a public office should be forfeited in the event of the holder of that office taking on further employment to give further service to this country, particularly if he is known to have suitable qualifications and experience? Surely the pension attaches to an office and is payable in recognition of service given to the nation. That is what  Sir John  Kerr gave as Governor-General of Australia. Is further service undertaken or employment accepted to provide for a man to have a salary in recognition of the further work that he is doing? It is no additional expense for the Commonwealth. If another man were appointed he would still have to be paid the salary. Of course, no matter what job  Sir John  Kerr took, the Opposition would use it as an excuse to lampoon him in this Parliament as often as it possibly could. 
A great German philosopher, Goethe, once said that hatred is a heavy burden and that it sinks the heart deep into the breast like a tombstone on all joys. This malady is obviously within the Labor Party. It was an obsession of the previous Leader of the Opposition. Apparently this new Parliament will be infected with the same disease by the Opposition continuing this bitterness against a very honourable Australian- a man who did what he believed was right and proper and whose service to this country should be recorded. If he had not taken the action that he did there would have been absolute chaos and turmoil in Australia. Thank goodness that was avoided and thank goodness the Australian people had the opportunity of making a choice. As it turned out, it was the right choice. 
I can understand the honourable member's keen interest in this matter because he represents a large wheat producing area. Discussions have been continuing for quite a considerable time about the possibility of negotiating a new international wheat agreement. Because of the way in which pressures were bearing down on the world market towards the middle and the latter part of 1977 it looked as if some emergency action would have to be taken. It appears now that if there is to be a new international wheat agreement it will probably emerge out of the multilateral trade negotiation discussions which will take place during the course of the year. The new international wheat agreement contains a new feature, namely, the possibility of stock holdings. When prices are low, countries are expected to accumulate stocks and as prices increase they are expected to release them. This is a new feature that I know America is particularly keen to introduce. 
However, we do not want to be a party to any agreement that will place the Australian industry in a competitively disadvantageous position. We are very keen to ensure that none of our traditional markets is lost if we are to be part of a new international wheat agreement that has certain stock holding obligations. We have made this position very clear wherever we have had discussions, particularly in Geneva of late where work has been proceeding on this matter. I want to see an international wheat agreement but I also want to see one that does not prevent Australia from being able to maintain its traditional markets. 
Retrenchments in southern New South Wales coal fields are not the result of any disproportionate cutback as compared with Queensland mines. One of the things that I have made very clear to our customers and to the industry is that I want to see a pro rata export performance by the New South Wales mines, whether they be open cut or underground mines, as compared with the open cut mines in Queensland. From my information, that is occurring. 
However, one problem that is causing a major disability in New South Wales is the inadequate port facilities. That is causing very great concern. There is absolute confusion in New South Wales as to where port developments will take place and as to what new mines will be able to be opened so that the large tonnages concerned, especially of steaming coal, will be able to leave New South Wales from deep ports. At the moment the two major ports are Port Kembla and Newcastle. Port Kembla is quite inadequate and, unless something is done about Botany Bay, Port Kembla will have to be expanded rapidly. There are some limitations on the capacity to expand that port to meet the demands in southern New South Wales. In addition, transport facilities are a problem. At the moment the coal industry is at a loss to know what are the policies of the New South Wales Government in relation to increasing the railroad capacity to enable those mines to expand. New South Wales certainly has the opportunities for expanding the coal industryparticularly with regard to steaming coal- but I am afraid that the industry is being hogtied by the indecisiveness of the New South Wales Government. 
I am not aware of any request to halt export licences for coal. Furthermore, I am not aware of any contract which has been signed for reduced prices or a fixed price over two years as has been suggested by the honourable member. However, I am aware that negotiations have been going on and that these factors have been brought up in the course of the negotiations. I think all honourable members would be aware that there has been some slackening in the international trade of commodities, particularly steel. This is having its repercussions on Australia as a supplier of raw materials to the Japanese industry. If Japan is unable to produce steel in the quantities being produced previously, it is not possible for that country to take the same quantity of raw material. That should be clear to any person. I had discussions with Japanese officials towards the end of last year.  Mr Saito,  the  Chairman  of Nippon Steel Corporation, assured me at the time that even though restrictions might have to be placed on imports of coal and iron ore by Japan, Australia would be considered favourably and that it would be the last country to feel the more severe impact of any restrictions the Japanese had to undertake. This was because our coal and steel industries had developed largely to meet the requirements of the Japanese steel makers. If too many limitations were placed on their capacity, they would not be able to continue to operate. However, in a few weeks time I will be going to Japan and having discussions with the Japanese steel makers. Of course, this matter will be brought to the forefront. 
I have seen those reports. It is accepted and understood in the industry that there will have to be some restraint on production. As a member of the International Sugar Agreement Australia is required to limit the amount of sugar it exports, and this means curtailing production. Of course, the sugar industry has a choice as to whether it should be a member of the new International Sugar Agreement. It has opted to sign that agreement, which means managing its exports to try to get a better international price. The alternative is to allow the situation to continue in which excess exports are causing ruinously low prices. The industry, the Queensland Government and the Commonwealth Government have accepted that these obligations are in the best interests of the industry in this country and internationally. 
However, it does not mean to say that sugar cane will necessarily be wasted. In some cases sugar could be carried over from one year to another and harvested the following year. In the meantime the industry will be in a much better position to assess what it should be preparing to plant for the following year. So by judicious management of the acreages planted, the industry will be able to avoid any loss or to ensure that the loss will be only small. Within the sugar industry it is well known that there are peaks up to which the industry can produce. Every mill has its mill peak, and people who produce in excess of mill peak take a risk. In years gone by people have had to pay the price for going above mill peaks. Within the new International Sugar Agreement, the undertaking that I have been able to obtain for Australia means that producers in this country will be able to produce up to mill peaks. That at least gives them a guarantee of performing up to the undertaking which they have been given by the Queensland Government and the sugar industry. 
It has been a commitment of this Government and of previous governments that contracts entered into by mining companies prior to 1972 would be honoured. I am pleased to see that the trade union movement has also accepted that these contracts should be honoured. I think people should be aware that the contracts entered into by Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd, Queensland Mines Ltd and the Ranger partners involve about 11,700 short tons of uranium which is to be delivered up until 1986. Those shipments commenced in 1 977. Up to date that commitment has been met partly with exports from Mary Kathleen and partly from the Government's stockpile. But the reserve at Mary Kathleen is only 6,500 short tons and the Government's stockpile is 2,000 short tons. If one does the arithmetic one will see that we are still about 3,000 short tons short of being able to honour our contractual commitments. Another mine or more mines will have to be brought into operation if those contracts are to be fulfilled. I think the more important thing to realise, however, is that the rate of delivery from Mary Kathleen is to be spread over that whole period until 1986. That means that mines will have to come on fairly quickly if we are to meet our obligations. Even at the moment it looks as though we could be in a serious situation by 1981 to 1982 if more developments do not take place. This only heightens the importance of developing the Ranger mine as soon as it is possible to do so after all the negotiations have taken place with parties to which the Government has given a commitment that those negotiations would take place. 
I am aware of a longstanding dispute between the New South Wales Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board and the Department of Mines. I know that the present Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs is also well aware of it. I think he was responsible for appointing the Reynolds Commission in New South Wales to arbitrate on that matter and to investigate it thoroughly. After about three years the Commission reported back to the New South Wales Government that, provided adequate safety measures were taken, mining could take place underneath water storages. One of the Departments involved in the Royal Commission is now having legislation introduced in New South Wales to stop mining taking place under these water storages. I know it is for New South Wales to make these decisions but this matter has a certain bearing upon the national interest, the export performance of this country and the availability of coal. I am aware that the mining operations of a subsidiary of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd, at Wongawilli in the honourable member's electorate will be forced to close down immediately putting off some 300 men should this legislation be passed. There is also the Bulli colliery which has reserves to keep it going for 10 to 15 years should it be able to mine underneath the water storages. If the legislation is introduced that operation will cease probably in five or six years time. This matter has implications for employment in the honourable member's district. I think it is a strange decision to make after having a royal commission into the matter. 
I have seen reports of some comments made by  Sir Frederick  Catherwood and I do not take to them kindly. Australia sees evidence of protectionism in many other countries and has committed itself to joining with other countries in trying to achieve a balanced reduction in tariff barriers- not just straight out tariffs but also other non-tariff devices. We want to see tariff barriers reduced in relation to agricultural products as well as industrial products.  Sir Frederick  seems to assume that the policies of protectionism accorded to agricultural industries in Europe should not be questioned. At the same time the modest levels of protection that we give to our secondary industries in Australia are to him unreasonable and unfair. To me that is an indication of the double standards of thinking that exist in the minds of many people in Europe. It seems that agricultural industries in Europe are sacrosanct and that any amount of protection can be provided to them. It is almost immoral to question such a policy. Apparently the European countries have a right to do whatever they wish in terms of economic security but we, as a developing industrial nation, have no right to give degrees of protection if we have problems. 
I believe that  Sir Frederick  will be coming to see me this afternoon. I do not know whether this matter will be a topic for discussion but I am sure that I will find it an occasion on which to make some comments to him which he might like to put in the Press. If Australian exporters found it as easy to get into the European markets as the European exporters find it is to get into the Australian market, our exporters would be in a very favourable position. 

 -The Deputy Leader of the Opposition raised a number of questions. One of them, which is of particular interest to me, is the last one relating to mills in northern New South Wales because two of them happen to be in my electorate. It is a matter of very deep concern to the industry and to me that there be a satisfactory transfer of ownership of the mills to the growers in northern New South Wales. Consultations have been proceeding under the auspices of the New South Wales Government, and I am hoping that a satisfactory conclusion will be arrived at. The honourable member made reference to Australia's obligations under the International Sugar Agreement. One of our obligations is to restrain our export deliveries in the hope that the international market might tighten. That means that we have to suppress the level of our production and to put in storage part of our production so that if world demand increases and prices respond accordingly adequate stocks will be available for the consumer countries. This is part of our international obligation. 
In answer to the honourable member's question as to whether this will have any bearing on Australian consumers, no it will not. The additional storage facility to be provided is to be financed by the sugar industry itself, generally by loan moneys which will be repayable, so it will have no implications at all on the domestic price of sugar. However, as the honourable gentleman knows, the question of the domestic price of sugar is to be considered by the Government. When the decision is made an announcement will be made to this House. 
-An important part of my mission to Japan was to re-emphasise our concern about access to the Japanese market, which is an extremely important one for our beef. Last year it was the second major market, but it is a highly restricted one. It operates on a sixmonthly quota basis. That is something that has not pleased us and we would like to see annual quotas. Also, high charges are imposed upon imports into Japan. On a couple of occasions in Japan I detailed the additional costs involved. To simplify it, I pointed out that Australian chilled beef lands in Japan at $1.77 a kilogram and retails to the Japanese consumer at about $12 a kilogram. That is due in part to a levy and duties imposed once the beef lands, but is also due to a very costly distribution system within Japan. 
The Japanese Government informed me that it is doing what it can to reduce some of the costs of distribution so that the high cost to the consumer can be reduced. The price of beef in Japan would be the highest in the world. The Japanese Government gave me an assurance that for this six-monthly quota period we can expect a 5,000 tonnes global increase, with another 5,000 tonnes increase in the next six-monthly period. From what I was told, I believe that we can look forward to a continuation of that 5,000 tonnes increase each six-monthly period. That will put us close to an annual quota of 100,000 tonnes this year, but I have made a plea to the Japanese Government for quotas up to about 130,000 tonnes by 1980, which would get us back to somewhere near the figure for 1 973-74. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 had two discussions with representatives of the Japanese Government concerning the long term sugar contract with Japan. 
In February 1 976 1 had talks on this subject with  Mr Abe,  the then Minister for Agriculture and Forestry. In July 1977, in Canberra, I spoke with  Mr Sugiyama,  Director-General, Food and Marketing Bureau, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. In these discussions I emphasised the importance we attached to the contract with Japan and expressed the hope that a satisfactory settlement at the commercial level could be reached. In addition, the then Department of Overseas Trade consulted me and kept me fully informed concerning the numerous discussions on this issue which took place both in Canberra and Tokyo after December 1 975, between Australian and Japanese officials and sugar industry representatives. 
A successful commercial resolution to the dispute was reached on 26 October 1977 and was supported by letters exchanged between the Australian and Japanese Governments dated 1 1 November 1977. 
See (1)above 
The records of the conversation are confidential and it would be inappropriate for me to table these in Parliament. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information provided relates to advertising by the Department in Australia. 
1 ) The figures provided for periods prior to 20 December 1977 refer to expenditure incurred by the former Department of Overseas Trade. 
$2,356 
$5,032 
$15,185 
$7,820. 
) The nature and cost of advertising was: 
Inviting applications for vacant positions- $7,030 
Advising closing dates for applications under the Export Market Development Grants Act-$ 1 1 , 808 
Advising amendments to the New Zealand/Australia Free Trade Agreement- $3,555 
Trade Promotional Activities-$8,000. 
470.2.04- Department of Trade and Resources, Trade Promotion 470.2.06- Department of Trade and Resources, Incidental and other expenditure 474.2.03- Department of Trade and Resources, Export Development Grants Board, Incidental and other expenditure. 
to (6) All advertising was arranged through the Australian Government Advertising Service. 
The estimated cost of advertising for 1977-78 is $19,500, including $9,800 for advertising by the Export Development Grants Board. 
I have received representations  from  automotive product manufacturers in Australia who are very concerned about the announcement that New Zealand is to adjust its tariffs from 1 July this year. I believe this will have a significant effect on the capability of the Australian industry to sell as well in New Zealand. At the New Zealand-Australia free trade talks- the NAFTA arrangements- that we have each year, we have agreed that consultation should take place prior to any alterations in the preference tariff arrangements. I am sad to say that in this case an announcement was made before any consultation started. Consultations are now under way. 
It could be argued that the new tariff levels do not come into effect until a few months time. I believe consultations would have given us more time to explain the situation to the industry and also to make strong representations to New Zealand concerning the consequences which will flow. There are to be talks between Australia and New Zealand in two weeks time. I intend registering very strongly with New Zealand my view that there should be modification to the tariff adjustments which it is suggesting, because of the impact the adjustments will have on the Australian industry. I think it is fair to mention that a general review of tariffs has been going on in New Zealand. The announcement that was made covered about 4,000 items. The new adjustments in tariff levels apply from 1 July. That in no way diminishes my very great concern as to the consequences of this new tariff on Australian motor products imported into New Zealand. 
-I noticed a number of reports in the Press today based on speculation about the Government's decisions with regard to export incentives and export promotions. It should be no secret at all that the Government considers it important to maintain and expand our existing export performance for reasons of employment and balance of payments. For these reasons the Government announced during the last election campaign that it would introduce a new incentive scheme to encourage and assist exports. That scheme has been under examination. Industry people have been consulted and have made comments. There has also been an Industries Assistance Commission report looking into the export market development grants scheme as well as other export incentives. All these matters are being considered by the Government and until they are resolved I am not in a position to make any further comment. As soon as the matter has been finalised by the Government, an announcement will be made in this House. 
It is fairly obvious that this is a political exercise on the part of the Opposition. One naturally would expect that the shadow Minister for Trade and Resources, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  needs to put up some performance so that he can circulate a speech to the branches of the Australian Labor Party in his electorate. It is unfortunate that this has some ramifications. Certainly, it does not help a common national objective of trying to facilitate the maximum amount of trade between Australia and Japan during times of difficulty. The honourable member talked about my trip to Japan as a cap-in-hand approach to negotiate and suggested that the Japanese should come to Australia. Clearly, he does not understand the intentions of my trip. 
My visit to Japan was for the purpose of discussing Government policy, to meet with Ministers, officials, organisations, utilities, trading houses, to help to create good relations and to cement goodwill between our two countries. This probably was one of the most valuable trips I have had. I received a particularly good reception in Japan. We had frank and understanding discussions about the problem of both countries. There are mutual problems that must be discussed. But it is ridiculous to talk about the Japanese coming to Australia. I ask honourable members to look at my program and have regard to the multitude of people I saw. We would need to bring the representatives of half the business houses in Japan to Australia in order to undertake the same program. 
Annual discussions are held between Australia and Japan. They take place alternatively in Japan and Australia. I mention this in case the honourable member does not know it. There are to be joint ministerial meetings in Australia within the next two months. This is part of a regular pattern of discussions at ministerial level. But these meetings are undertaken for other reasons. It could be assumed from the way in which the shadow Minister spoke that only coal and iron ore are important in our trade. A multitude of other matters need to be discussed. They range from uranium to citrus fruit exported to Japan. All of these matters must be discussed. As it was two years since I had been to Japan I thought that discussions in that country were long overdue. They took place at a time of very serious problems in the Japanese steelmaking industry. It was most appropriate for me to be there to put the strongest case I could and to create the best climate or atmosphere- call it what you like- for our commercial people to go to Japan to negotiate the best possible terms and conditions. 
There are serious problems for Australia and serious problems for Japan. They have been brought about mainly because of the downturn in the Japanese economy. That downturn has been occasioned primarily by a world recession in trade. Because we are so closely linked in trade with Japan, what reflects on Japan reflects on Australia. We are totally interdependent upon each other. There is a special relationship between our two countries. It has developed over the last 20 years. It is a terribly important relationship and one that has to be nurtured and looked after. It cannot be fostered by the ALP approach of going like a bull at a gate, telling people what to do and making pronouncements. That is its doctrinaire philosophy. It is like the bullock driver yelling, screaming and using wild language in the hope that he will move the bullocks. That is not the way to maintain a proper relationship with our most important trading country. It is a very delicate affair and must be handled with the greatest diplomacy. 
I know that my trip to Japan was of value. Anybody closely associated with the trip and the industries involved will support what I am saying. This has been the common approach adopted by the Commonwealth and the State governments. I am pleased to say that on this occasion there has been complete unity between the Premier of Queensland and the Premier of 
Western Australia. They went to Japan and coordinated their approach. They knew that this was in the national interest. I think it is unfortunate that the ALP, for some petty political reason, now tries to divide the nation at a time when those companies involved in coal and more especially in iron ore are struggling to get the best terms and conditions they can. The honourable member criticised  Sir Charles  Court for going to Japan and trying to get new iron ore developments going. He said that if  Sir Charles  Court had gained something last year it would have worsened the situation this year. How ignorant and stupid can the honourable member be? 
If Area C project had gone ahead it would have been about five years before it got into production. We would be looking to the middle 1980s before that project came on to supply. Why should we not want new iron ore developments? Is it the philosophy of the ALP that it does not want resource development? That is what we heard from the mouth of the honourable member today. If  Sir Charles  Court can go to Japan and get replacement developments for Goldsworthy Mining Ltd which will run out of ore within a short period of time, I think he is doing a great deal of national good as well as good for his State. He has my support. If the Labor Premiers of South Australia and New South Wales want to go overseas to try to facilitate trade and they are prepared to co-operate at a national level, which they do, that is in our national interest. We should work together on these things. There should be a bipartisan approach and not the niggling, nitpicking attitude we heard from the honourable member today. If any accusations are to be made, they ought to be levelled at the honourable member and the Australian Labor Party in this House for their failure to understand the circumstances of today and the difficulties of the Japanese steelmaking industry. 
This is a difficult time for the Japanese. As the honourable member mentioned, I was in Japan in 1976. At that time  Mr Inayama,  who was then the  president  of Nippon Steel Corporation, told me that the company was forecasting a total annual steel production of 140 million tonnes to 150 million tonnes by 1980. He told me that in 1976. I returned to Australia and had the Government approve of a number of things to help the development of our coal and iron ore resources. We introduced a new taxation regime. We cleared our investment guidelines. There were a number of road blocks preventing new developments getting under way in this country. All of these moves helped the development of our steel industry to meet the forecast about which the Japanese had told us. What has been the consequence? There has been a recession in world trade. Today the Japanese steel industry is operating at only 70 per cent of capacity. Japan is producing 100 million tonnes of steel per annum. This is well below expectations. The situation is so bad that they have enormous stockpiles of those raw materials and pig iron and scrap. 
At present Japan has 20 million tonnes of iron ore on the ground. That represents 60 days supply for Japanese mills. Normally, the mills hold about 40 days to 45 days supply. They have 14 million tonnes of scrap and pig iron steel worth over $3000m and eight million tonnes of coal on the ground. The Japanese are knee-deep in the stuff. Yet the honourable member for Blaxland says that the Japanese must honour contracts and take more. I say that we must try to get the best agreement possible. The honourable member talks about basic export tonnages and contracts. I would like to mention that their basic contractual arrangements are for the supply of 145 million tonnes of iron ore and their minimum contractual arrangement is for 142 million tonnes of iron ore. So the Japanese must negotiate with various countries to try to achieve some reductions. They are knee-deep in the raw materials. They cannot eat the stuff. There has to be some conciliation. There has to be some understanding of the situation. It is not possible to force it upon them. It is sheer stupidity to take that attitude. The adoption of such an attitude will make hopeless any attempt to develop any form of negotiation with them. When I went to Japan, I pointed out the importance of the Japanese market and the fact that we have developed an iron ore industry. No other country in the world has spent as much money as we have on the development of iron ore and coal for the Japanese market. We have spent $3 billion to $4 billion and 80 per cent of our production goes to the Japanese market. Forty nine per cent of Japan's iron ore imports comes from Australia and 42 per cent of its coal imports comes from Australia. So, there is a special relationship. 
I can give an assurance to this House, because it has been given to me and repeated to  Sir Charles  Court, that we will maintain our share of the market. We will not lose it. But that does not mean that there might not have to be some reduction. We have this special relationship and it is something that we value. A special relationship is not something for today and tomorrow; it must be a lasting affair. It is something that takes time to build. There must be mutual trust and understanding. Since Australia and Japan signed the Treaty of Commerce in 1957, there has been an unbelievable growth in trade with Japan. It has been fortunate for Australia that this has happened. With the United Kingdom going into the European Economic Community, Japan now has become the alternative market to the United Kingdom. Japan is our largest market for iron ore, coal, bauxite, mineral sands and all the non-ferrous metals. In the agricultural area it is the largest market for wool, sugar, cheese and skim milk powder and a very significant market for our beef. It is our main market for coarse grains and a major market for wheat. Is that not evidence of a special relationship? Of course Japan is looking to Australia as a supplier of uranium. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  did not mention today what I have heard him mention in radio interviews- the contractual arrangements for uranium. What about them? This was a case where Japan negotiated a certain quantity and price for uranium, but the price was quite unrealistic in today's circumstances. However, it renegotiated the price from about $6 or $7 per lb to about $30 per lb. Japan did so because it was realistic. It knew the price had to be changed and in that case it was to Australia's advantage that the price was renegotiated upwards. 
Of course, there must be understanding on all these contracts. I ask: What about the sugar contract? Certainly some pretty hard negotiating went on but fortunately both sides saw reason. There was a compromise and today we have a very good contract which is extended a year longer than the previous contract. That is the way one deals when one has a special relationship. OK, the dealings are tough and solid; but there should be none of this business about threats because today, when Japan can obtain iron ore from other countries around the world, we will be the loser from such action. To make allegations against this Government is quite improper. Part of the reason for today's trouble is that Japan is obtaining additional quantities of iron ore from countries such as Brazil, Chile, India and South Africa and additional coal from South Africa because during the period of 1973, 1974 and 1975 it became so disturbed and upset about the way it was bullied by the Labor Government of this country, that it formed a deliberate policy to invest in other countries. That investment now is starting to pay off with the additional supplies that Japan is obliged to take from those countries. As I said, Australia will be given preferential treatment. We will maintain our share of the market. It would be totally wrong if we were to lose any share of our market to any other country of the world, although I do not believe this will happen. We will finish in a preferred position and that is what I went to Japan to achieve with respect to iron ore and coal. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Trade and Resources was created on 20 December 1977. The figures appearing below refer to expenditure incurred by the former Department of Overseas Trade. 
1 ) The amounts expended on fares and travelling allowances in 1976-77 are set out below. For comparison, figures for 1973-74 and 1974-75 have been included. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are a total of eight full-time staff employed on tea-making and distribution in my Department. Four are employed in the Head Office and four in other offices located in the States. 
(i) The total cost for salaries in 1976-77 (in the then Department of Overseas Trade) was $53,392. 
No other charges apart from salaries were incurred in the provision of tea services as staff contribute to other costs. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Australia is represented on an Intergovernmental Working Group which was established by the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) with a mandate to conduct an examination of the problem of corrupt practices, in particular bribery, in international commercial transactions, and to elaborate the scope and contents of an international agreement to prevent and eliminate illicit payments, in whatever form. In view of the desirability of Australia participating in a multilateral agreement on corrupt practices, Government policy will be determined in the light of the findings of the Working Group. 
It is not possible at this stage to give any indication of when the government will be able to announce its policy on this matter. This will depend on when the Intergovernmental Working Group completes its study. No date has yet been set for this. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Government presented formal representations to the Canadian Government in December 1977 expressing concern at the recommendations of the Canadian Tariff Board in its Interim Report on Processed Fruits and Vegetables. These representations were reinforced by  Mr Garland  during his recent visit to Canada. 
If the Canadian Tariff Board's recommendations were maintained in its final report and were accepted by the Canadian Government, Australian canned fruits entering Canada would face substantial increases in the levels of import duties as well as loss of tariff preferences. There is little doubt that such tariff changes would place serious difficulties in the way of Australian canned fruit exports to Canada. 
Australian exports to Canada which would be affected directly upon implementation of the Canadian Tariff Board's interim recommendations are as follows (1976-77 values): 
A meeting in relation to trade matters is held annually between officials of Australia and of the Soviet Union. A Soviet Union mission will be arriving today for discussions. During the course of this visit the  Deputy  Minister for Foreign Trade,  Mr Smelyakov,  will be having discussions with the Minister for Primary Industry and me. I am particularly keen to talk with the  Deputy  Minister to try to assess why the Soviet Union is not buying our meat this year. It has been a very large buyer of Australian meat. It was the second largest buyer in 1977, but to this point of time it has not bought any meat. It has not bought any meat from any country since about last October. So I am hoping that in the course of our discussions I might get some assessment of the market possibilities in the Soviet Union for Australian meat. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to seek the approval of the Parliament for the ratification by Australia of the International Sugar Agreement 1977 and to authorise the Commonwealth to on-lend to the State of Queensland funds provided to the Commonwealth from the International Sugar Agreement Stock Financing Fund, together with possible drawings by the Commonwealth from the International Monetary Fund Buffer Stock Financing Facility. On 13 October 1977,I made a statement to the House on the outcome of the United Nations Sugar Conference 1977 which negotiated a new International Sugar Agreement. I am pleased to be able to inform the House that the Agreement entered provisionally into force on 1 January this year. Australia has signed and undertaken to apply the Agreement provisionally pending finalisation of ratification procedures. To date, 37 sugar exporting countries and 1 1 importing countries have joined the Agreement. Together these countries account for about 84 per cent of free market sugar trade, the major non-participant being the European Economic Community. 
Because of the nature of world sugar trade it has long been accepted that some form of regulation of supplies on the so-called free market is essential if sugar producers are to receive reasonable and stable returns for their product and if sugar consumers are to be assured of reliable and stable supplies at reasonable prices. The events of the last few years- a period when there were no internationally agreed market regulatory mechanisms- clearly demonstrate this need. As a result of a slowing down of production increases, setbacks in domestic production in several large importing countries and a rundown in stocks, world prices rose from 143 per long ton in January 1974 to 650 per long ton in November of that year. Between January and June 1975 world prices declined to 128. At the time the International Sugar Agreement was being negotiated world prices were steady but at a depressed level of around f 100. This low level of prices was largely the result of an expansion of production following high prices in 1974 and 1975 but it also reflected consumer reaction to high prices and a growth in industrial demand for alternative types of sweeteners. 
The world sugar market has been in surplus throughout most of 1976 and 1977. Without the introduction of some brake on production and the level of supplies available for world markets, the prospect was for deteriorating market conditions for producers in 1978 and probably beyond 1979. Crop reports in most countries are favourable and leading world market analysts predict a surplus for the 1978 season of 4.5 million to 5.5 million tonnes. Without the umbrella of the Agreement there would have been the almost certain prospect of the world price falling to as low as 50 per tonne. 
It may be helpful to honourable members if I briefly restate the main provisions of the Agreement. The Agreement is aimed at establishing a price range of SUS0.11 to $US0.21 per lbequivalent, today, to around $A212 to $A405 per tonne. Provision is made for review of the price range and upward adjustment when this is considered appropriate. The price range will be defended by a combination of global export quotas and stockholding provisions. Quota and stock accumulation provisions come into operation when prices are low; quotas are suspended and stocks released as prices rise towards the maximum. The cost of storing stocks will be substantially assisted by a stock financing fund which will derive its income from a charge of $US0.002 per lb made on sugar traded on the free market. These financing provisions, which ensure that the cost of stockholding will be shared equitably between consumers and producers, are a unique feature of the new International Sugar Agreement and are important not only in relation to sugar but also because of the possible implications for other commodity agreements. The Agreement empowers the Fund to make loans to exporting members, to help them defray the costs of holding stocks. In addition to this, following the negotiations of the International Sugar Agreement, the International Monetary Fund has expanded its Buffer Stock Financing Facility to cover nationally held stocks. Australia as an exporter under the ISA may, under certain conditions, be in a position to obtain such IMF finance. 
The Bill now before the House provides authority for the Commonwealth to on-lend to Queensland, on appropriate terms and conditions, funds provided from the International Sugar Agreement Stock Financing Fund. It also provides for the on-lending to Queensland of possible drawings by the Co'mmonwealth from the International Monetary Fund Buffer Stock Financing Facility. Although the price range provided for in the Agreement is some 10c per lb, the intention of the negotiators was that the Agreement should stabilise prices at around SUS0.14 or SUS0.15 per lb. At this price level it is considered that efficient producers will obtain reasonable levels of returns, that consumers can be assured of secure supplies at reasonable prices and that the price substitution threat from alternative sweeteners, such as fructose-glucose syrups, will be held to a reasonable level. These artificial sweeteners have been developed in recent years to such an extent that they threaten to make further inroads into the sucrose market. 
Honourable members are no doubt aware of the vital importance of the sugar industry to Australia, and will welcome the many benefits that membership of the ISA has brought, and will bring, to this great Australian industry. There are some 7,000 cane farms in a strip of land extending over 1,000 miles along the eastern coastline. The sugar industry is itself a largescale fully integrated industry. Sophisticated heavy engineering, transportation and handling industries depend heavily upon it and are essential to it. The sugar industry directly and indirectly provides work opportunities for some 100,000 people. The welfare of whole communities depends on this industry. The value of Australian sugar exports in 1976-77 was $A638m. This represented 12.4 per cent of the value of Australia's rural exports and 5.5 per cent of our total exports. 
Sugar production is also of considerable importance to developing countries. Some 35 developing member countries export sugar, and the economies of many of them are almost wholly dependent on export earnings from the sale of sugar. Australia, as a developed country, has a responsibility to work for the orderly development of a world economic system which takes proper account of the position of developing countries. We have accepted commitments in international forums such as the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development to lend our support to reasonable and realistic approaches for achieving more favourable and more stable conditions for trade in commodities. 
The International Sugar Agreement is a first and important step under the UNCTAD Integrated Program for Commodities. The Agreement is one of the most sophisticated international commodity stabilisation agreements yet negotiated. It is an Agreement which has been very carefully negotiated by countries, with the paramount objective of stabilising world trade in sugar, in a manner beneficial to both producers and consumers, to both developing countries and developed countries alike. For the first time in recent years, the United States is a member of the International Sugar Agreement. The United States Administration looks to the Agreement as providing a cornerstone for a new domestic United States sugar policy which is being established. The United States Sugar Act, which for many years limited total United States imports and provided little access for Australian sugar, expired in 1974. After a period of trading wholly as one of the world's largest free markets the United States has found it necessary to find ways to protect its own producers of cane and beet sugar against the disruptive effects of low world prices. For this reason, the United States Administration took a very important part in the Sugar Conference. The United States was largely instrumental in developing some of the provisions of the new Agreement, including its stocks provisions and the Stock Financing Fund to which both importers and exporters will contribute. The United States has a special interest in ensuring the successful operation of the Agreement. 
Unfortunately, the EEC has not joined the Agreement. It has indicated that it is prepared to negotiate terms of accession with the International Sugar Council, but as yet it has not entered into these negotiations. It is most inequitable and most unsatisfactory to all other participants that the highly industrialised EEC bloc, the world's largest producer of sugar, has not yet decided to join the Agreement. At a time when other producing countries, most of whom are developing countries, are subjecting themselves to production and export cutbacks, the EEC is expanding its production and its surpluses and is doing so with the use of heavy subsidies. The EEC stands alone at this time in the world sugar community as one entity which is not yet prepared to accept an international discipline for the greater good of the world sugar community. I hope that the EEC will promptly reappraise its position, with a view to enabling it to negotiate appropriate terms of accession to the Agreement by accepting disciplines and obligations comparable to those assumed by all other sugar exporters. Nevertheless, I believe that even without the EEC as a member, the new International Sugar Agreement will operate to restore a measure of order and predictability in the sugar market, which has been singularly lacking since 1973. EEC membership would help to improve the operation of the Agreement, but I am satisfied that with its present membership the Agreement offers the Australian sugar industry and sugar industries throughout the world the prospect of more stable and prosperous years ahead. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from  1  to  2.15  p.m. 
I am well aware of this issue, as I have been closely associated with the New South Wales canegrowers' executives who have been involved in the discussions and negotiations regarding the transfer of ownership of the mills from CSR Limited to a prospective cooperative arrangement. The reasons why CSR might be selling the mills is not something which I should canvass here; that is a matter for its own decision. But it is a matter of great concern to the producers of New South Wales who depend upon these mills for their livelihood. It is important that these mills do continue in existence and do remain viable operations because the whole welfare and, indeed, the economy of quite a section of that part of the State depends upon the continuing operations of the New South Wales sugar industry. 
I point out that the negotiations and discussions which have been taking place have also been undertaken under the umbrella of the New South Wales Government, which has the prime responsibility for the agricultural activity in the area. I commend the New South Wales Government for the way in which it has been trying to bring about a harmonious settlement to this dispute, which has caused so much uncertainty and doubt for a considerable period of time. I believe that the New South Wales Government has made a request to the Commonwealth Government. This request is being handled by the Minister for Primary Industry. I think I am right in saying that a submission relating to this matter is to be received by the Commonwealth Government for consideration. 
by leave- At the opening of this Parliament on 21 February the Governor-General stated that the Government would be proceeding with the development and export of Australia 's uranium resources. The six Bills just introduced underline our determination to proceed with uranium development in a carefully-regulated and responsible fashion with full regard for proper environmental control and for ensuring the welfare of the Aboriginal people. Those considerations were central elements of the Government's policy on uranium development announced on 25 August 1977. 
The announcement of that policy was made only after long and careful consideration by the Government of the recommendations of the 
Ranger Inquiry conducted under  Mr Justice  Fox as presiding commissioner. I remind honourable members that the Government's decisions were substantially consistent with the recommendations of the inquiry. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-The few variations from the Ranger Inquiry's recommendations were agreed to on the basis of achieving the same purposes and satisfying the same principles. The Ranger Inquiry was of course initiated by the Labor Government in 1975. It was a comprehensive and lengthy public inquiry and its findings have been the subject of extensive public debate both in the Parliament and in the community at large. One of the specific undertakings given by the Government last August was that we would establish a Uranium Advisory Council as one of the elements in the administrative arrangements for control and regulation of uranium development. The Government has now agreed that the Uranium Advisory Council be established with the following terms of reference: 
The function of the Uranium Advisory Council shall be to advise the Minister for Trade and Resources with regard to the export and use of Australian uranium, having in mind in particular the possible hazards, dangers and problems of and associated with the production of nuclear energy; and the development of the uranium mining industry in Australia, including exploration. 
The Council shall, as soon as practicable after each 30 June, prepare and furnish to the Minister for tabling in the Parliament a report on the operations of the Council during the year ended on that date. 
The Council shall furnish to the Minister, by such time as the Minister may direct, a report on any other matter referred to the Council by the Minister. The Council may also furnish to the Minister a report on any other matter within its terms of reference. 
The advice and assistance of the Council shall be made available as required to the Director of National Parks and Wildlife, the Northern Land Council, the supervising scientist, the co-ordinating committee and other agencies, as well as to the mine operators. 
The Government considers that these terms of reference will provide a suitable basis for the operation of the Council. The terms of reference have been purposely framed so as to allow the Council to operate with flexibility and in accordance with the recommendations and suggestions of the Ranger Inquiry. The actual individuals to be members of the Uranium Advisory Council have not yet been settled, but the Government has agreed that the Council should include representation from the following groups: The Austraiian religious community; the Aboriginal community; a national voluntary environmental organisation; the Northern Territory community; the Australian Council of Trade Unions; a person with experience in energy matters; the 
Australian uranium industry; a nuclear scientist; a medical practitioner or health physicist; an environmentalist with experience in natural resource development; an economist with experience in natural resource development; and an expert in national and international affairs or law. In the near future I expect to be inviting various individuals to be members of the Council. The names of those appointed will be announced as soon as possible. 
The Government has agreed that the Uranium Advisory Council will be supported initially by a group of three research staff who will be engaged by and will report directly to the Council. These staff, although employed under the Public Service Act, will work independently of my Department in order to preserve the independent status of the Council and its advice. The Government also has agreed that the Council may contract outside consultants as necessary. The Department of Trade and Resources will service the administrative requirements of the Council including the provision of an administrative, as distinct from research, secretariat. I also wish to advise the House on the stage reached in the implementation of other aspects of the Government's uranium policy announced on 25 August 1977. As I have mentioned, the Government's policy is based on an acceptance of the findings of the Ranger Inquiry. In reaching our decisions on uranium development we had special regard to the issues of nuclear non-proliferation and world energy requirements. As regards the former, it is very clear that only by developing our vast uranium resources can Australia play a real role in strengthening nuclear safeguards and preventing any ill-considered rush to plutonium based energy systems. Only as a major potential exporter of uranium is Australia in a position to command attention and exert influence in the direction of more stringent nuclear safeguards systems. The United States of America, Canada and other nuclear supplier countries have in recent times taken initiatives to strengthen nuclear safeguards. Australia, in its position as a major potential uranium exporter, strongly supports such nuclear non-proliferation and safeguards initiatives. 
Australia's stringent safeguards policy has received international attention. We have prepared draft bilateral safeguards agreements on the basis of our policy and invited potential customer countries to conclude such agreements with us. Already there has been very significant and gratifying progress in this regard. Australia is at an advanced stage of negotiations of bilateral safeguards agreements with three countriesthe United Kingdom, Finland and the Philippines. We hope shortly to begin negotiating with Japan and other countries. Other countries have expressed interest in negotiating bilateral agreements with us. For Australia to achieve progress in the direction of more stringent nuclear safeguards in such negotiations, it needs to be abundantly clear that we intend to develop our nuclear resources and play a positive and active role in international nuclear developments. 
Australia's standing in international nuclear forums also has been enhanced by our decision to proceed with development. The International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation is a major international initiative in regard to nuclear nonproliferation and the use of nuclear power for peaceful purposes. It was launched by  President  Carter in October last year. The study is expected to proceed over about two years and involve over 40 developed and developing countries, including Western and communist countries.  Mr Justice  Fox, Australia's Ambassador- At-Large on Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Safeguards, is fully engaged in Australia's effort at INFCE. Australia has been elected to the very important position of Co-Chairman of Working Group 3 of INFCE dealing with the major questions of fuel supply assurances in the context of nuclear nonproliferation. Australia is also participating in other working groups. 
In addition to the contribution Australia is making at INFCE, we also have participated for the first time in a working group under the auspices of the Nuclear Suppliers' Group on the subject of multi-labelling. The Nuclear Suppliers' Group brings together 15 of the world's major nuclear exporting countries. It has developed common guidelines for the safeguards to be applied to nuclear exports, and Australia has accepted these guidelines. The invitation to Australia to join the working group on multilabelling is a further recognition of our increased significance in international nuclear affairs. 
The second major consideration in regard to the development of Australia's uranium resources is our international responsibility as a country rich in energy resources  to  make those resources available to countries less endowed than ourselves. In the wake of the world energy crisis many countries have no viable alternative energy source other than nuclear power. This is true both of developed and developing countries alike. Already nuclear energy is a fact of life in many countries and there are firm commitments and proposals to install nuclear capacity on an increasingly significant scale so as to provide urgently needed supplies of electrical energy. There are now 194 nuclear power units operating in 2 1 countries with a capacity of over 95,000 megawatts of electricty. There are 213 nuclear power units under construction in 27 countries. An additional 100 units are on firm order in 17 countries. This means that nuclear power units with a total generating capacity of 388,000 megawatts are either in operation, under construction or on firm order in 34 countries throughout the world. There are 307 units at the planning stages with a proposed total generating capacity of over 300,000 megawatts. This is a total of 814 nuclear power units in operation, under construction, on firm order or planned. This figure is higher than that mentioned last August when the Government's decisions were announced. 
There is a significant potential demand for Australian uranium to fuel the existing and planned nuclear energy requirements of other countries. This is underlined in recent reports of the Nuclear Energy Agency of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. The Nuclear Energy Agency estimates that world uranium reserves, including those of Australia, are 2.145 million short tons and that the cumulative demand to 1997 is 2.3 million short tons. In other words, world uranium demand exceeds supply even after counting Australia's existing resources. Since the announcement of Australia 's decision to proceed with further uranium development a number of countries, including the United Kingdom, the Philippines, the United States, West Germany, France, Finland and Japan, have registered their desire to secure uranium from Australia for their nuclear power programs. In view of the energy situation facing the world it is important and, indeed, imperative that Australia's abundant energy resources are made available. 
It must also be recalled that Australia has existing export contracts to about 11,700 short tons which were approved in the early 1970s and which successive governments, including the Labor Government when it was in office, have repeatedly stated will be honoured. Australia will not be able to honour those existing contracts, which are long-term contracts extending to 1986, unless it proceeds with the development of new uranium mines. Australia's credibility as a stable trading nation on which other countries can rely is therefore very clearly at stake in relation to the undertakings that have been given to provide other countries with the uranium they must have for the production of electrical energy. I will be very disappointed if development cannot get under way in the forthcoming dry season. I am sure no political party would want to add to Australia's embarrassment by placing in further jeopardy the honouring of existing contracts. 
Honourable members will recall that last August the then Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development stated that strict environmental controls and standards in relation to uranium mining would be adopted. In this regard the Government is presently examining the nature of environmental requirements, consistent with the environmental controls agreed on by the Government last August, that would be included in the grant of a mining authority to the Ranger consortium. These requirements will be designed to meet the very stringent controls that the Government believes are necessary. They will carry legal force and will, of course, be subject to supervision by the supervising authorities in the region and subject also to the oversight and co-ordination processes established in the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill 1978. In relation to the Ranger project, the Government also has under consideration proposals made by the Northern Land Council on Aboriginal wishes relating to the development of the Ranger project. I expect that negotiations on this matter, as required by section 44 of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act, will be resumed shortly. 
In my statement to the House on 25 August 1977 I said that, in addition to proceeding with the development of the Ranger project, the Government would take decisions on the development of other uranium deposits, subject to satisfactory completion of the necessary requirements. In accordance with the administrative procedures under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act, Pancontinental Mining Ltd and Queensland Mines Ltd have prepared draft environmental impact statements on the development of the Jabiluka and Nabarlek deposits respectively. The comments that have been received from the public on these statements are being examined by the companies. I would also mention that Noranda Australia Ltd has been designated in terms of the administrative procedures under the Act as a proponent of all actions related to the uranium deposits at Koongarra. Western Mining Corporation also made available for public comment a draft environmental impact statement on its research plant at Kalgoorlie proposed in connection with the Yeelirrie deposit in Western Australia. 
There are, of course, other elements of our policy as announced on 25 August 1977 which also are in the course of implementation and in respect of which further legislation will be required. With regard to marketing, we said on 25 August 1977 that we accepted the thrust of the recommendation of the Ranger Inquiry that a uranium marketing authority be established, but that we would not take a final decision until the implications of foreign anti-trust laws had been fully examined. The Government hopes that it will be in a position in the near future to take the action necessary to establish appropriate marketing arrangements. The Government also said on 25 August 1977 that the information available pointed to substantial economic benefits from the development of the uranium industry and that it would wish to consider the accrual of an appropriate share of uranium profits for the benefit of the public generally. As previously indicated, the Government has initiated discussions with the industry on a possible framework for a secondary or resource-based tax on future earnings from uranium development. 
In its announcement last August the Government said that stage 2 of the Kakadu National Park would be proclaimed at a later time and that, in the meantime, exploration would be permitted under strictly controlled conditions to be supervised by responsible departments. As indicated by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom),  provision is being made in the Bill to amend the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act to protect wildlife and natural features in the stage 2 area. Provision is also being made to enable regulations to be made that will allow exploration to take place in that area. Subject to meeting Aboriginal interests in the area and the necessary environmental controls, the Government will be proceeding with a tightly controlled exploration program so that the resources of the stage 2 area can be identified and appropriate action taken as quickly as possible to enable the proclamation of the area as a national park. 
Development of uranium also will be dependent upon the co-operation of those members of the trade union movement who will be involved in mining, milling and transport activities. Honourable members will be aware that the Australian Council of Trade Unions determined that affiliated unions should make labour available to facilitate the honouring of existing contracts from Mary Kathleen and the Lucas 
Heights stockpile. ACTU resolutions in the past have identified areas of concern associated with the use of uranium as an energy source. However, the ACTU has not said that there should be a total renunciation of the intention to supply from new mines. The ACTU has called for consultations in relation to the development of new uranium mines. The Government said it would be glad to accede to this request, and talks between Ministers and the ACTU have already taken place. Further talks are planned. 
Australia's decision, as announced on 25 August 1977, to proceed with further uranium development has received wide acceptance in Australia and abroad. We have set ourselves a policy of carefully regulated and controlled development, paying due regard to proper environmental control and ensuring the welfare of the Aboriginal people. The successful and prompt implementation of our policy is a challenge for all sections of the Australian community. I believe this is a challenge and a responsibility which Australians are well equipped to accept. I present the following paper: 
Uranium Development- Ministerial statement, 10 April 1978. 
Motion ( by  Mr Newman  ) proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Trade and Resources was created on 20 December 1977. The figures provided below refer to expenditure incurred by the former Department of Overseas Trade. 
TAA, $90,920; Ansett Airlines, $42,455; MacRobertson Miller Airlines, $3,608; East- West Airlines, $453; Airlines of NSW, $221. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Senate Question No. 1 1 16 (Senate Hansard, 9 November 1977, pages 2397-8). 
Department of Social Security: Expenditure on Travel and Subsistence  (Question No. 260) 
I am not here to canvass what various options are available to the Government. The Government will have to look at these options as circumstances arise. But what is very clear is that the Government has a responsibility under the Constitution to ensure that the normal processes of exporting take place in this country. It is quite intolerable to imagine that a sectional group or interest, union or whatever else it may be, can disrupt that trade. The Prime Minister has said that the Government will ensure that the laws of this country are upheld to see that trade takes place and that sectional interests are not persecuted. I cannot think of anything more selfish or lousy than what has been going on in South Australia and Western Australia when people have been deprived from getting a reasonable income for what they produce. The Government will stand by these people to see that the exports take place. 
I am interested to hear the honourable member's reaction to and concern about the employment situation in Western Australia. We have shared this concern for some time. However, apparently the honourable member and some of the unions he supports have not been very concerned about the employment security of people of an area in which a continuing spate of strikes has prevented the use of Australia's export capacity and to a degree undermined our reputation as a reliable supplier. Let me assure you,  Mr Speaker,  that Australia can look forward to maintaining its share of exports to the Japanese market. Whilst our total volume of exports to Japan may be declining we will not be losing any of these exports to any other country. It would be quite wrong if some other country were to get some advantage over Australia through a lower export rate. Australia has been the largest and most consistent exporter to the Japanese market during the present decade. Japan depends upon Australia for about 49 per cent of her iron ore requirements. Australia exports something like 80 per cent of its iron ore to that market. So both countries are interdependent on one another. I believe the assurances given to me and to  Sir Charles  Court, the Premier of Western Australia, that Australia will maintain something between a 49 per cent and 50 per cent share of the Japanese market, will be upheld. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to seek the approval of the Parliament for the establishment of an Australian Overseas Projects Corporation to assist Australian private organisations to compete for overseas development projects so as to encourage the export of Australian goods and services. Honourable members will be aware that there has been a massive expansion in investment in large-scale development projects in developing countries during the current decade. Following the rise in international oil prices, developingcountry oil producers in the Middle East and elsewhere have embarked on huge and continuing development programs. In addition, international financial institutions such as the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank are providing large funds for development projects in developing countries to improve basic infrastructure, increase food-producing capacity and establish new industrial capacity. As a result, development projects now make a significant and growing contribution to world trade. lt is well known that there is strong international competition for overseas development projects, particularly in view of depressed domestic demand in the industrialised countries. As a result, overseas governments, including those of the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Canada and the Republic of Korea, are actively involved in various ways in supporting their industries to gain contracts for large projects. Moreover the governments of several developing countries, in view of their limited domestic expertise in project development, have a requirement or preference for some form of official government backing or involvement in tender bids submitted by overseas suppliers. By their very nature, most of these development projects encompass a range of activities from initial design through to actual construction and purchase of equipment. Many of the projects are awarded to groups of specialist private firms organised into consortia to undertake the whole project.  (Quorum formed).  Australian private organisations involved in consulting, contracting and equipment supply have the necessary technical capability and expertise to enable them to undertake the whole or substantial elements of projects in a range of fields. However, in a number of fields of particular interest to Australia, certain elements of essential expertise are located only in government instrumentalities. 
A further limiting factor is that many of Australia's most progressive companies in these fields are relatively small by world standards, while the size and complexity of most overseas development projects are usually very large. As a result of the growing commercial interest in overseas projects, the Government has received a number of requests from Australian firms for support, assistance or direct participation in various development projects. At the same time, several of the major private sector industry organisations have made representations to the Government requesting the establishment of a greater degree of co-operation between the Government and industry in the overseas projects area. It became apparent to the Government that the present ad hoc arrangement for considering each request on a case-by-case basis was not a satisfactory way of providing continuing government support to Australian exporters in this field. 
The Government, accordingly, undertook a thorough study of the overseas projects market during 1976 and 1977. Submissions were sought from private enterprise groups and the Trade Development Council. Following this study, I discussed the possible approaches to the problem with representatives of industry organisations and the Trade Development Council. As a result of this consideration, the Government was convinced that if Australian interests were to be able to compete on an equal footing with overseas competitors, an overseas projects corporation would need to be established to facilitate direct co-operation between industry and Government in this field. The Government undertook to establish such a corporation during 1978 as pan of its policy outlined at the last election. 
We have moved speedily to implement that commitment. The Bill now before the House provides for the establishment of the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation as a statutory corporation which would undertake the following functions: It will make available to Australian private organisations information on opportunities for Australian involvement in overseas projects. It will assist Australian private organisations to negotiate with overseas governments or organisations for the carrying out of overseas development projects. It will assist Australian private organisations to carry out overseas development projects by providing special expertise available within the Government. Finally, it will be able to carry out the whole or part of an overseas development project at the request of Australian private organisations. The actual work in relation to such a project would be carried out, on behalf of the Corporation, by Austraiian private organisations. 
The Corporation will be controlled by a board of directors, the majority of which shall be appointed from private industry and shall have had experience related to development projects. At least one director shall have had experience in matters related to rural industry. The day-to-day operations of the Corporation will be directed by a managing director. The Government intends that the managing director will be an executive of high calibre who has proven experience in matters relating to development projects. The Corporation will be provided with capital of $2m with an initial instalment of $lm being provided to enable it to commence operations in 1978-79. In addition, the Corporation will be empowered to enter into total contingent liabilities up to $50m initially in respect of its participation in all projects. I am pleased to be able to inform honourable members that this Bill has the support of the private-sector organisations that have made representations to me on this matter. 
The Australian Overseas Projects Corporation will meet a pressing need for government support for Australian exporters in the particular field of overseas development projects. Unlike the Overseas Trading Corporation proposals which were advanced by the Whitlam Government, this Corporation has adequate safeguards written into the Bill to ensure that its operations will concentrate on the important task that needs to be done. In particular, there are provisions to ensure that the Corporation does not engage in general overseas trading.  (Quorum formed). 
As I mentioned earlier, the Corporation will act at the request of Australian private organisations. Additional safeguards are provided to ensure that the Corporation does npt compete against competent Australian organisations for the same project in normal circumstances. The Corporation will not undertake the prime role in carrying out the whole or part of a project unless the Minister is satisfied that there is no competent Australian private organisation willing to undertake the project. 
The Corporation will be expected to conduct its business in accordance with sound commercial principles and to charge proper fees for the provision of its services. The financial statements of the Corporation will be subject to examination by the Auditor-General. The Corporation will submit an annual report to the Parliament on its operations. 
Acting in co-operation with the Department of Trade and Resources and, in particular, the Trade Commissioner Service, the Corporation will provide strong backing to consultants, contractors and equipment suppliers in their efforts to extend Australian participation in overseas development projects. The establishment of the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation is the first of several new initiatives being introduced by the Government to encourage a strong export effort by Australia in the future. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I have noticed some comments coming particularly from the Opposition relating to the International Sugar Agreement. Those comments cast great doubts as to whether Opposition members really support the International Sugar Agreement and its provisions. They are certainly crying poor mouth about it, hoping, I think, that it will fail. They are in an equivocal position at the moment. If it fails, I suppose they will say: 'We told you so'. If it is successful, they will support it strongly. 
Under the International Sugar Agreement certain disciplines are imposed upon sugar exporting countries and certain undertakings are given by importing countries. The Agreement is aimed at achieving a price range of between 1 lc and 21c per lb. Anybody who understands this scheme will know that it will take some time, by limiting the supply of sugar, to get prices within this range. Once prices hit either end of this range certain obligations must be undertaken either to release more sugar or to put more production controls on it. We know that at the moment there is an over-supply of sugar in the world. The industry is convinced that if there are no production controls the price of sugar this year will drop to about 5c per lb. 
The world sugar industry has agreed to put some disciplines on production. A basic export tonnage has been given to every country. Further imposed upon that basic export tonnage is a cut of 15 per cent to try to tighten the market. It is hoped that in the second half of this year there will be some tightening of the market. It has taken longer than one might have wished because a significant number of countries unloaded extra sugar onto the market before the provisions of the Agreement came into operation. At the moment, the sugar industry is in full support of the International Sugar Agreement, as are the Queensland Government and the Commonwealth Government. It is all right for the Opposition to be equivocal and nit-picking about the Agreement but it is of absolute importance to the Australian sugar industry. As I have said, I believe that we will see the effects of it in the second half of this year. 
I do not think any of us would want to treat our balance of payments situation with complacency. The whole prosperity and welfare of Australians depend upon a continuing strong export performance. However, it is pleasing to know that our export performance is increasing all the time and is breaking records. The figures for the first nine months of this financial year are up about 5 per cent on the figures for the corresponding period last year. The figures for March of this year as against February of this year are up by a similar amount. Right along the line our export industries seem to be holding their own on world markets. They are being given every encouragement and assistance by the Government to do so. My recent visit to Japan was wholly for the purpose of trying to secure and maintain that very important market for Australian exporters. Likewise, with the presence in Europe of the Minister for Special Trade Representations, we are endeavouring to gain greater access to markets. 
Later today, if I am given leave to do so, I shall make a statement announcing a whole series of new initiatives by the Government further to stimulate our export performance. I believe that by the use of some initiatives in different areas and by greater promotion and publicity we can give a new impetus in this area which will be of overall importance to the country. The honourable member mentioned figures to be published today. I believe that more figures are to come out about midday. The interesting significance of those midday figures will be the way in which our balance of payments situation has improved significantly. I think an analysis of the figures will show not only an improvement in the export performance but also a healthy increase in private capital inflow into the country, indicating that there is confidence in the way in which the country is being managed. 
by leave- The Government has decided to undertake an enlarged export development program designed to encourage Australian firms to increase their export sales and more actively pursue export opportunities. A comprehensive review of facilities and incentives for exporters has just been completed and I am pleased to announce a number of major initiatives which the Government has decided upon in this area. These encompass a wide range of export development activities, including export incentives, export promotion programs for both the manufacturing and rural sectors, the Trade Commissioner Service, the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation, the Overseas Projects Corporation, the promotion of Australian consulting and construction contracting services overseas, and the export of Australian technology. 
The allocation of increased resources to export development as part of a major government priority to enlarge Australia's external trade was announced in the Governor-General 's address at the opening of Parliament. That major priority was set in the knowledge that a renewed emphasis on export development was essential to the Government's program of restoring full economic health to the country since export growth is one of the keys to greater prosperity and the creation of more jobs. 
The measures adopted are in accordance with the Government's long term industry policy which includes encouragement for the development of export oriented industries. As well as encouraging the long term development of more competitive industries, the revitalised program will assist in the short term in taking up the slack in the manufacturing sector and help alleviate adverse pressures on the balance of payments and reserves situation. 
In formulating the measures which I now announce, my colleague the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  and I have had the benefit of consultations with the Trade Development Council, the Australian Manufacturing Council and other industry organisations. We have been fully informed on the problems which exporters are facing and the difficulties which must be overcome if industry is to maintain and improve its export performance. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to question No. 468  (Hansard,  4 April 1978, page 978). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to question No. 468  (Hansard,  4 April 1978, page 978). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics on meat trade between Australia and New Zealand are provided in the accompanying table. 
Although the balance of this trade favours New Zealand, the level of imported meat is insignificant when compared to Australia's very large domestic production. (Australia produced 2.7 million tonnes of meats in 1 976-77.) 
I am therefore not convinced that any useful purpose would be achieved by an investigation such as that suggested by the honourable member. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The company has informed my Department it expects to substantially increase sales to the Australian fertiliser industry during 1978, while negotiations are being conducted to increase tonnage sold to the United States market at more favourable prices. 
While the main markets for copper oxide are in the chemical and fertiliser industries it is also used in the ceramic, animal, food, glass, electronic, automotive and metallurgical industries. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
While the Multilateral Trade Negotiations (MTN) being conducted under the auspices of the GATT have accelerated in recent months and major participants are seeking to have many of the major issues substantially resolved by mid 1 978, no specific date has been set for the conclusion of the MTN which could even extend into 1979. 
Within the MTN, wheat, beef and dairy products are being dealt with by specific negotiating sub-groups of the Agriculture Group. The meat and dairy sub-groups are now in almost continuous session examining the scope for new international arrangements which would improve trading conditions for these commodities. In the case of grains however, the main discussions and negotiations have been within the International Wheat Council in London and more recently of the UN Wheat Conference in Geneva. At an appropriate time discussions in the MTN Grains sub-group will complement and parallel these. 
In addition, there has also been established within the MTN an item by item, bilateral request and offer procedure for the negotiation of trade concessions on agricultural products. All the principal trading countries have made and received requests and initial responses have been exchanged. 
The next phase which is about to commence shortly, will involve bilateral consultations. 
Australia is taking an active part in discussions in the three negotiating sub-groups on grains, meat and dairy products, and has also made wide ranging requests for concessions in agricultural trade under the bilateral request and offer procedure. 
Confidentiality is of course an essential aspect of the negotiating process, and premature disclosure of the detail of discussions could inhibit progress. I wish to assure the honourable member, however, that at the earliest appropriate time I shall provide full details of the progress made and results flowing from the MTN. 
-Shipments of meat to the United States have been running ahead of schedule this year. We have a full entitlement of 301,000 tonnes. At the rate at which it is being shipped we could have a period at the end of the year when there would not be an available meat market left. As a result of this, the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation had the difficult task of deciding what action should be taken. It made a decision that 45,000 tonnes ought to be reserved for the latter part of this year to ensure that there was not just a complete and absolute collapse of the Australian market, which would have been a situation even worse than the one we have at the moment. Trading has been going on in the entitlements which people earn to ship meat to the United States market. These entitlements are earned as a result of selling other meats on low price markets. Entitlements therefore are worth something and have been traded ever since the entitlements scheme was brought in several years ago. 
I think it is fair to say that a great deal of concern is now developing as to the value of these entitlements which are being traded. I am told that the price of these entitlements has gone from about 10c or 1 5c per lb in about February of this year to 30c per lb, and now some are as high as 50c per lb, which is quite incredible. Although the degree to which these entitlements are being traded is not known, it is fair enough to say that those prices are being paid by somebody. If there is a detrimental effect in the saleyards as a result of people discounting the value they have to pay for these entitlements, it means that the producer is actually paying. I do not think anybody can tolerate that situation. I am told that as a result of complaints that have been made the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation is reviewing the whole situation to see what reforms can be brought about. I think it is fair enough to say that there are concern and discontent and that some answer needs to be found to this question if it is causing further depression of the meat prices that exist at the moment. 
Bills are before the United States Congress at the moment to introduce a counter-cyclical element in relation to beef import regulations. This is giving a great deal of concern to us because its impact will be to restrict on occasions the quantity of beef going into the United States. For instance, if it had applied for the year 1977 we would have got 23 per cent less beef into the United States. We find it quite incredible that at a time when beef prices are going up so rapidly in the United States- in fact they have doubled during the course of this year from about 50c per lb to over 100c per lb- the United States Congress is thinking of action that would have the effect of restraining imports and making the price to the consumer in the United States even greater. Vice-President Mondale will be coming to Australia next week and, apart from expressing our concern about this legislation, we intend making the most of the opportunity to ask that the United States give consideration to a further extension of Australia's entitlement this year. 
As the honourable member is aware from my answer to a question yesterday, we have been exporting at a faster rate this year than in previous years. Had not the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation imposed a limit or put aside a certain allocation for later this year, there would not have been any available market for a pan of this year. As our main market, that could have had disastrous effects. So we believe there is a strong argument, with beef prices in America going up, that America ought to give consideration to a further allocation of meat rather than to have any thought of imposing restrictive measures. 
I expect the Japanese Government to announce the next six monthly quota next week. In the discussions I had during my visit to Japan in March with Ministers and leaders of the cattle industry in Japan, I was assured that there will be a 5,000 tonne increase over the quota for the corresponding period last year. That will take it from 35,000 tonnes to 40,000 tonnes. However, since that visit, because of an increased demand for beef in Japan as a result of the Japanese Government's maintaining wholesale prices and its measures to reduce retail prices, I believe there is a need for even more beef than was envisaged in our talks. I am hopeful there might even be a significant increase over and above what the Japanese guaranteed me as the minimum. Meeting that requirement augurs well for the industry. I would hope also that a greater share of the global quota might be taken up by Australian exporters. There has been a tendency over the last quota period for Australia's quota proportion to drop. With more competition and more keenness by our exporters, I certainly hope to see them getting a bigger share than they have had over the past quarter. 
-There have been discussions between the head of my Department and the Public Service Board on reorganising the structure of my Department. An agreement has been reached on a new departmental structure. Although there may be more top-level positions, the net result of the restructuring is a saving to the Treasury because there will be fewer personnel overall. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In recent months the Department of Trade and Resources has been approached by members of the Australian pea and bean industry who have expressed concern regarding the quantities of frozen peas, and to a lesser extent frozen beans, likely to be imported from New Zealand in 1978 and the pricing policies of certain New Zealand exporters. 
Information available to Australian officials indicates that imports from New Zealand have been increasing rapidly in recent months and that some of these are being sold at prices considerably lower than current Australian prices. 
There is a long history of co-operation and consultation between Australia and New Zealand on trade in frozen peas and beans involving the industries as well as Governments. Officials of both countries have been working with the respective industries to obtain the full facts of the current situation. 
At the NAFTA Ministerial Meeting in Canberra on 18 April 1978 1 brought to the attention of New Zealand Ministers the concern expressed by the Australian industry regarding recent imports of frozen peas and beans from New Zealand. It was agreed that a further meeting of the Joint Pea and Bean Industry Panel could discuss this question. 
Increase in Number of Members of Federal Parliament  (Question No. 891) 
I am aware - 
I am not aware of the statement to which the honourable member has alluded and which, in his own words, is a hypothetical proposition, that Japan withdraw from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Japan, having suffered the effects of a nuclear device, is probably more concerned than is any other country in the world to see established a world regime which will prevent the proliferation of nuclear material. Therefore I would not like to canvass any hypothetical question about Japan's withdrawing from such an agreement; I do not believe it would want to do so. 
It is important that State governments consult with the Commonwealth if they are going to send missions overseas, so that there is complete co-operation in any ideas that they might have of developing overseas markets. Of course our exporters have been involved in the Middle East for a good many years. Recently a delegation from the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation travelled through that area. At the moment it is planned that another delegation will go there. This has arisen out of the live sheep export dispute. This delegation will include members of the unions involved, producers and exporters. So within a short period of time two delegations will have been in the area. However, I am pleased to say that during the course of the past week there have been discussions between New South Wales and the Commonwealth regarding the Premier's proposed delegation to the Middle East. I emphasise that if the States go off on their own, their efforts often can be redundant and counter-productive. When States send missions overseas without consultation they generally finish up having to get in touch with our trade commissioners and foreign affairs posts to help them to facilitate arrangements. 
Generally when Queensland sends delegations anywhere- not always- it finds that it needs the facilities of the Commonwealth. 
-No, it did not. That was in the case of the Premier's - 
Discussions have been going on for quite a considerable time in trying to arrive at a new international wheat agreement and one has been rather disappointed with the progress of the discussions. The hold-up has been mainly on the minimum and maximum price scales, stock holdings and also the inclusion of coarse grains in the agreement. There has been quite a difference of opinion between the European Economic Community and the United States on maximum and minimum price scales, but I am pleased to say that last week in Geneva in the course of discussions they did seem to get closer accord on their differences. I am hoping that later this year we can get down to some positive discussions to bring about a new international wheat agreement but there have been very great difficulties in reaching agreement between those two countries. 
Negotiations commenced yesterday between the Commonwealth negotiator and the Northern Land Council. The negotiations are continuing this afternoon. In the course of discussions yesterday the Northern Land Council expressed concern about possible amendments to legislation that is before the Senate. A cable was sent to the Prime Minister this morning expressing concern. The Prime Minister replied that he would be sending the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and me to the Northern Territory this afternoon to have consultations with the Council and members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly to see whether we can reach some accommodation as to the misunderstanding or the concern that people might have about the legislation that is coming before another place at the moment. Accompanying the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and me will be the honourable member for the Northern Territory and  Senator Kilgariff  who has been responsible for certain amendments in another place. I hope that we can obtain complete understanding between the various parties. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Senate Question No. 1116 (Senate Hansard, 9 November 1977. pages 2397-8). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of the Special Trade Representative encompasses the functions of the former Department of the Special Trade Negotiator which was created on 17 July 1977. No expenditure was incurred during the 1976-77 financial year. 
That is a completely speculative question and I do not intend adding anything to it. There has been no request by the Philippines to store its waste material in Australia. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the Australian Director of Parks and Wildlife and I, along with two Territory representatives in the Parliament, the honourable member for the Northern Territory and  Senator Kilgariff,  went to Darwin and had lengthy and frank discussions with the Northern Territory Executive and the Northern Land Council to resolve the problems that had arisen as a result of amendments that  Senator Kilgariff  had suggested for another place. I am happy to say that an acceptable understanding has been reached between the parties and that the bulk of the amendments that have been proposed will be submitted to the Senate for approval. 
I think it is a credit to all the parties concerned that they could sit down and resolve this matter in a way which was acceptable to them. The Northern Territory administration was concerned about the role it would play in a national park and the Northern Land Council was very concerned that any role the Northern Territory administration played might impinge upon the rights of Aboriginal people. The Commonwealth made it very clear that the rights of the Aboriginal people would be preserved and that Commonwealth control would be maintained over this great national park. 
I believe that the comments of  Mr Yunupingu,  the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council, made after our meeting yesterday, to the effect that a closer understanding and a greater degree of co-operation than ever before has now been achieved amongst the parties involved are an excellent omen for future negotiations and relations towards the development of uranium in the area. I believe it is important that all parties look at this project which involves the development of uranium, and of the national park, as being a co-operative one. It is important that we work together to achieve what will be one of the greatest national parks in the world and to enable a source of essential energy which the world needs to be mined. 
I feel very proud to be associated with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm 
Fraser) and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in speaking to the condolence motion before the Parliament. I am proud to be able to speak on behalf of the National Country Party, because of my party's long association with  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies and because of my personal association with him. I probably knew  Sir Robert  as long as any member in this House. I, along with a few other honourable membersyourself included,  Mr Speaker,  the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)-  were selected and served in his ministries. My father served in  Sir Robert's  first Ministry before the war and also in his post-war Cabinets. I feel that I can speak about  Sir Robert  Menzies, and in doing so I classify him as Australia's greatest statesman, a brilliant orator, an outstanding parliamentarian and a great leader. 

 Sir Robert's funeral last Friday was a remarkable occasion for this nation. We saw people from throughout Australia and from around the world pay a triumphant tribute to this great man. Thousands of people lined the streets. Many of them expressed their sorrow. The remarkable thing about that occasion was that it was some 12 years after he departed from political life. As we all know, most politicians are forgotten the day after they retire. Not  Sir Robert  Menzies. He had welded for himself a lasting place in the history of this nation. It is a matter of history that the close relationship which everybody knows existed between  Sir Robert  and my party in the 1950s and the 1960s had been, in earlier years, not always a happy one. There is no doubting that the relationship between  Sir Robert  and the Country Party during the years of the coalition in the 1950s and 1960s was a matter of great significance to him and, I believe, to Australia. I think it is worth recalling some of the things he said to the nation on the day he retired from office, on 20 January 1966. He referred to the immense loyalty he had enjoyed from both partiesthe Liberal Party of Australia and the Country Party- and went on to say: 
It is not always understood that over these years the stability of government, the continuity of government . . . have been based upon an alliance between my party and the Country Party which in all these years has never been broken, and in the whole of which I have been profoundly indebted to the members of both parties who, though they may be critical and, of course, undoubtedly are from time to time, have been staunch and loyal. 

 Sir Robert's answer to a question about what he saw as his most lasting achievement was most important, especially to members of my party. 
He referred firstly to the creation of the Liberal Party in 1 944 and then said: 
I look back with great satisfaction on the fact that there has been a fruitful and constant alliance with the Country Party . . . We have for all these years been a joint government. I have had the most tremendous loyalty not only from Country Party Ministers- in particular  Mr McEwen,  who is a most distinguished man- but also its private members. It is not always easy to have a marriage of this kind. 
He went on to say: 
If at any time over these years I had come back with an absolute majority of the Liberal Party on the floor of the House, I still would have said to the Country Party, 'I want you to be in'. 
There are people who tried to deny the magnitude of the contribution that  Sir Robert  Menzies made to Australia while he was Prime Minister. They bring forward the fatuous argument that there is nothing of real significance for which he can be remembered. That is obviously untrue. Australia's progress in fields such as education, national development and trade during the Menzies-Fadden and the Menzies-McEwen period makes that quite clear. If these critics are saying that Australia under Menzies lacked drama, lacked division and lacked instability, if they are saying that Australia under Menzies enjoyed solid economic and social progress, enjoyed political stability unmatched in any other country, enjoyed full employment and enjoyed inflation rates which, if we had them today, would make us the envy of the world, these critics are unconsciously pointing to the things for which  Sir Robert  deserves to be remembered. 
No other Australian has occupied the place that  Sir Robert  Menzies held. Whether people were for him or against him they regarded him in a way in which no other Australian has ever been regarded. I think the only way to describe his unique place in Australian life and history is to say that he was an institution. The meaning of the word institution in this context is very simple but I think it is appropriate. It means a familiar object.  Sir Robert  was a familiar object. To many Australians he was the government. He was the rock on which our stability and our security were built. To the world, Menzies was Australia. To those who knew him personally there are many memories one could reiterate today. I go back to when I was a young school boy, having to view some movies of his travels overseas. I recall them as not being very exciting. I remember him most as  Chairman  of Cabinet. Many stories are written about him being a very frightening man; certainly he was a taskmaster. Whenever he placed responsibility on Ministers he expected them to perform. He was very humiliating to a Minister who had not done his homework and tried to bluff his way through. He inculcated into members of his Ministry the need for integrity and honesty which I believe will last for a long time in the Australian political scene. 
I remember clearly his great interest in the development of the national capital while I was Minister for the Interior. Modern Canberra is greatly indebted to him. Canberra was stagnant for years and years until  Sir Robert  Menzies decided that this was the national capital and needed to be reflected as such to Australia and the world. He took upon himself the responsibility of a revived Canberra by developing the lakes and bridges, building the National Library and making it the great capital which it is today and of which we are all proud. I shall always think of  Sir Robert  Menzies as being a Queen's man.  His  allegiance to the Queen and his readiness at all times to defend the monarchy was something for which he deserves great credit. He was not defending the monarchy because of any personalities, but as a lawyer and as a person who understood the Constitution of Australia. He knew that, inherent in our democratic system, in our parliamentary way of life and in our common law, it was necessary to recognise the monarch if we were to preserve that system. When I visited him on one occasion during his retirement I quite clearly recall him telling me about the various other types of parliamentary systems around the world and finishing his remarks by saying: 'Give me another one that is better than ours. If it is not, why should we want to change our situation?' 
No tribute, no testimonial, to  Sir Robert  would be complete without reference to Dame Pattie. Like so many of us in Parliament who rely heavily upon our wives, so did  Sir Robert  Menzies. Dame Pattie was the perfect example of what  a  parliamentarian's wife should be. She gave to  Sir Robert  Menzies strength, encouragement and support in the heavy duties and onerous responsibilities he had as leader of the nation. To her I pay a great tribute. On this sad occasion I express sympathy on behalf of all the members of my party and myself. I should like Dame Pattie to convey those sympathies to the members of her family. 
Pursuant to section 20 of the Coal Industry Act 1946 I present the annual report of the Joint Coal Board for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
For the information of honourable members I present a copy of the trade agreement between the Governments of Brazil and Australia, signed on 23 February 1978. 
I have answered a question in the House on the matter of the United States considering legislation which will be of a countercyclical nature. The disadvantage of such a proposal is that Australian industry would be left in a state of uncertainty as to the volume of exports that would take place each year. As I pointed out previously, the system applying last year would have meant a considerable reduction in the volume of our exports to the United States. So, because of our concern, we are using every opportunity of expressing our point of view to the United States administration, to the United States Senate and to the United States House of Representatives Ways and Means Committee. When Vice-President Mondale was out here the Prime Minister and I took the opportunity to explain our great concern about the matter. The Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation has presented written evidence to the United States Ways and Means Committee and I believe that the United States Administration has now submitted proposals objecting to that legislation. I would not believe that the United States would take such action as this at this time because meat prices are rising considerably in the United States. One would think that the United States would be looking to an increase of imports, not a restriction. At the same time, whilst there are great international discussions and conferences going on to try to bring about a greater liberalisation of trade, I would have thought that United States action in this regard would be just counter to that philosophy. 
-One of the brightest spots on the economic horizon is the prospect of selling more coal overseas, particularly steaming coal. Numerous inquiries on this matter have come from other countries. Last year something like seven delegations from various countries inspected the facilities in Australia and the capacity of Australia to sell steaming coal. In New South Wales there is enormous potential on the South Coast and in the western district and the Hunter Valley for expanding coal facilities. In Queensland there are also numerous opportunities. I think that the great concern of the coal mining industry lies in New South Wales, with the inadequate port facilities available. I issued a statement on this subject yesterday because I am concerned, as the industry is concerned, about the inadequate facilities surrounding Port Kembla and the decision not to proceed with the coal loader at Botany Bay. If that coal loader facility at Botany Bay had proceeded as was originally intended it would have come into operation possibly this year and would have provided a golden opportunity for expanding coal mining operations in the southern and western regions of New South Wales. I have to say that it did not go ahead because of a political decision- straight out political expediency- by the Wran Government. Protests were held about the environmental factors in that area. 
If that Government makes those decisions, it must accept the responsibility. At the moment there is utter and sheer confusion about New South Wales being a reliable and dependable exporter of steaming coal to other countries. At the moment importers are doubting whether New South Wales will have the capacity to export. Certainly there is already a limit to the size of the ships that can go into its ports. If coal handling facilities had been constructed at Botany Bay the world's largest ore carriers could have gone into that port. Apparently the New South Wales Government had no concern for the environmental factors in expanding the capacity at Balmain which is in the very heart of the city. I think the Wran Government in New South Wales must accept its responsibility, if it wants to see this industry which has a great deal of potential go ahead, by reconsidering Botany Bay and building facilities there so that this industrythere is no other industry in New South Wales with as much potential as the coal industry- can grasp the export opportunities for which  Mr Wran  was looking in the United States and which he said that he found. 
-China is already a very important market for Australian iron ore. This year we anticipate delivering something like 4 million tonnes, which is twice as much as was delivered last year. I read in the reports of the Minister for Industry and Commerce, who has just recently been to China, that China is anticipating increasing its steel production to something like 60 million tonnes of crude steel by the middle of the 1980s. The expansion of the Chinese industry means that they will probably be looking for further outside sources of raw material to supplement their own. 
I was made aware of the situation when I was in Japan talking to representatives of the Japanese steel industry. The Japanese will be constructing some of the new blast furnaces in China. Those representatives pointed to the fact that, with the increasing steelmaking capacity of China, Australia could be looking to that market for additional sales. I emphasise that at a time when the world market for iron ore is difficult it is very encouraging to have the opportunity of increasing our sales to the People's Republic of China. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Australia has concluded Trade Agreements with the Governments of the following countries: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Trade and Resources does not operate any staff canteens. 
In January of this year the Japanese Government announced that it would endeavour to increase its imports of high quality beef by 10,000 tonnes a year. This flows from high level negotiations that had taken place between the United States and Japan in order to try to reduce the imbalance of trade between those two countries. The Australian Government has made it quite clear that it is concerned that if there is to be any increase in this quota, it be of a global nature enabling all countries to tender, instead of being exclusively for the United States. During my visit to Japan in March I questioned various Japanese Ministers and officials on this matter, because it is a matter for concern to Australia if there is to be an exclusive arrangement for United States meat. I was given an assurance by those people that it would be an open quota, allowing Australia to tender. However, there have been reports that the specifications for the tendering arrangements that are being drawn up will give a preferred position to the United States. This is a matter that Australia cannot take lightly. It is a matter that will be discussed at the joint ministerial talks which will take place in June between Australian and Japanese Ministers. 
It seems that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has been reading the newspapers and trying to predict what government attitudes will be. 
Well, if the honourable member wants to rely on the newspapers, I think he will be consistently wrong. The fact is that this matter is still before the Government, and the Government is giving consideration to it. So obviously anything that the honourable member reads in the newspapers about the matter at this stage is merely speculation. 
I reiterate what the Prime Minister has said in this regard: There is a necessity for Australia to be involved in the multilateral trade negotiations. This is a water-shed year as far as world trade is concerned. Whether we are to engage in successful multilateral trade negotiations will depend upon countries being willing to participate in these discussions, in making certain bids and in being prepared to make certain recommendations or offers as to what they might be able to give. 
There has been a suggestion that Australia should participate in a formula cut, as is the main basis of the multilateral trade negotiations by other countries around the world. The formula cut is that there should be an average  40  per cent cut of tariffs across-the-board over a period of eight years. The Prime Minister has pointed out that the full impact of this measure, particularly for the industrialised countries of the world, will mean little. The full impact of a  40  per cent cut will depend a lot on the terms and conditions which will apply. 
There is a matter that has to be resolved in discussions during the course of the next month or so. The starting period is of immense importance for Australia because of the rather memorable  25  per cent across-the-board cuts in  1973.  At the moment, countries such as Japan and Canada are recommending that the  40  per cent cut start from  1972.  If this were to be universally accepted as the starting point, Australia would have already made a  25  per cent contribution. I hope members of the Labor Party will not argue about that. Being the authors of that action they must accept it. These are the matters of detail which one must understand. One must realise that they have a big bearing on what the eventual impact will be. But as no decision has been taken on this matter at this time the honourable member is merely canvassing speculation. I have nothing further to add. 
I have seen the publicity that has been given to the fact that a New South Wales meat mission went to Saudi Arabia. One has to bear in mind that there is the prospect of a State election in New South Wales and therefore maximum mileage is being given to this trade mission to Saudi Arabia. People should not get carried away too much by the publicity. They need to keep this matter in its proper perspective. Certainly there have been increased sales to Saudi Arabia. This is hardly news to me or to my Department which has been heavily involved in getting new sales in this part of the world in recent years. If there is any credit to be given for the new sales it should largely be given to the Federal Government, the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation and the exporters themselves for action they have taken. The New South Wales mission which went overseas claimed that it had made sales worth a quarter of a million dollars-that is, 200 to 300 tonnes of meat- but at the moment we are selling about 7,000 tonnes of meat to Saudi Arabia. This has resulted from trade displays and trade missions we have sent there. There have been eight missions to Saudi Arabia in the last year. We have had one mission investigating cold storage facilities in the Middle East, including Saudi Arabia. We have a special mission there now, involving the AMLC, looking into the prospect of increasing sales of meat and of live sheep. We also have two joint ventures operating with Saudi Arabia. I do not think there is anything world shattering about the fact that New South Wales had sent a mission there. One has to realise that there is a certain amount of political gimmickry about it all. 
I inform the House that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  leaves Australia today for discussions in New York, London, Paris and Bonn. He is expected to return on 19 June. During his absence I shall act as Prime Minister. I also inform the House that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  left Australia yesterday to represent the Government at the Western Samoa independence celebrations. He is expected to return on 5 June. During his absence the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  will act as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister. The Minister for 
Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  will represent the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in this chamber. 
-I have no intention of commenting on the way in which the Commonwealth Government will structure its next Budget. I should have thought that a wise Opposition member would have been very cautious in making any reference to budgets brought forward by the Labor Government- budgets which were absolutely disastrous for this country. 
-The Leader of the Opposition will recall that the whole purpose of the Royal Commission was to investigate charges and allegations made against the Minister for Finance. The Commission was set up to look into those allegations. Because people might become involved during the course of the inquiry that is taking place it does not mean that they will be asked to step aside. If Ministers are requested to submit themselves to that inquiry, it certainly is not the intention of the government that they should automatically stand aside from duty. 
-The Government has extended the terms of reference of the inquiry on the basis of legal advice given to it so that it can make appropriate findings on evidence that has been revealed at the inquiry. My previous answer to the honourable member clearly explained to him that the Government has no intention of asking any Minister to stand aside while the present inquiry into allegations that have been made against the honourable member for McPherson is taking place. To save the Leader of the Opposition valuable time in relation to asking questions or to save him from further frustration, I tell him that I have no intention of making any comment relating to those matters being investigated by the commission. 
My only comment to the series of questions that the Leader of the Opposition has been asking is that he is a rather slow learner. If he has not been able to comprehend my answers to his questions, I would be quite happy to supply him with a copy of them. As for my previous remarks, I have no intention of making any further comment. There is no inconsistency whatsoever in the Government's attitude in relation to Ministers having to stand aside. 
I can well understand how surprised the honourable member for Wills will be to know that I am well informed on this question, by various means. I think it is fair to make the remark that the Premier of Tasmania, when he made this comment in Canada, was relating Nova Scotia to the Canadian federal system of government. He said that the problems of Nova Scotia in some ways were similar to the problems of Tasmania, in relation to its small population and economy, its dependence on forestry and fishing, and the increasing emphasis in that area on tourism. 
I think it is also fair to say that the Commonwealth Government is not unaware of the problems of Tasmania. Certainly the honourable member for Franklin has not been backward in highlighting at all times the difficulties and problems there and the need to integrate Tasmania more and more with the mainland. The Government adopted a 10-point plan as a result of the Callaghan report. I believe that the implementation of that 10-point plan will be of great benefit to Tasmania. If the Premier of Tasmania made those remarks without having properly considered them I think it would be unfortunate. It would display that the Premier is a man who is finding the responsibilities of office and the difficulties of office just too much for him to be able to cope. 
-The Government made a commitment that it would reintroduce the fuel price equalisation scheme which was abolished by the Labor Administration. We made a commitment that that scheme would commence in the first six months of this year. Arrangements have been made with the States to have the scheme commence from 1 June, but this will require appropriate legislation to be passed in the various States. The States of Western Australia, Queensland and Victoria have passed that legislation, but it has not been passed in New South Wales. In order to help  Mr Wran  and to give the people in New South Wales the benefits of an equalisation scheme to apply from 1 June, arrangements were made with the New South Wales Government so that if it were to finance the scheme immediately, we would repay that State Government for the amount of money it had to outlay until its legislation was passed. I am hoping that similar arrangements might be made for Tasmania and South Australia, which likewise have not passed legislation. 
I am well aware of the very great concern of the honourable member for Kennedy who has spoken to me on a number of occasions and made representations on behalf of the unions and those people involved with the Duchess deposit just outside of Mount Isa. I think it is fair to say that the honourable member for Kennedy has been playing a leading role in trying to draw attention to the great significance of these phosphate deposits to Australia as a whole and particularly to the future of Australian agriculture. He was involved in a meeting at Townsville last Tuesday at which all interested parties were brought together to try to find an answer to the problem. The problem which Queensland Phosphate Ltd basically has is to be able to get access to the Australian market; that is, to have its rock phosphate used by the manufacturers of superphosphate who, at the moment, get their supplies from Nauru and Christmas Island. 
The other part of the problem relates to the very high freight charges manufacturers have to pay to transport the material from Duchess to Townsville. This freight rate charged by the Queensland Government represents more than half of the total cost of the product itself. So it is quite clear that there are two major problems: One is to be able to compete economically with the price of the rock phosphate from other sources including not only Nauru and Christmas Island but also other parts of the world. If the company is to be able to do that, some arrangements will have to be made regarding the freight cost in Queensland, which I believe to be beyond the capacity of the company to cope with. 
Then there is the question of access to the Australian market. I think all of us would like to see part of that production being used in Australia. If that were done manufacturers might integrate their plants so that as sources dry up- the Nauru and Christmas Island sources will do so in the course of time- we will not be held to ransom by other suppliers around the world. These future supplies seem to be limited mainly to North African areas, Morocco being the principal supplier to the world at the moment. 
To try to help to get an understanding between the producers of rock phosphate at Duchess and the manufacturers, I have called for a meeting this Friday here in Canberra between the manufacturers of superphosphate, Queensland Phosphate Ltd, and also the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission. The meeting has been called to see whether the difficulties encountered at the moment by manufacturers and the problems of integrating the rock phosphate may be resolved. There is an important need to guarantee to Australian farmers and to manufacturers that at all times there will be reliable guaranteed supplies of rock phosphate at a reasonable price. 
So the Commonwealth Government is certainly acting in this area to do what it can. I hope that the Queensland Government will address itself to the freight question to see whether it can help the company, because I think it would be a tragedy, after this company has spent something like $1 15m in exploring and developing the deposit, if it were now to go into liquidation. 
I would like to correct a reply that I gave to the honourable member for Cowper relating the the commencement date for the fuel equalisation scheme in New South Wales. I mentioned that special arrangements had to be made in that State because the New South Wales Government had not passed the relevant legislation. I have just received a note indicating that it is not possible for the New South Wales provisional scheme to operate from 1 June; that it will probably take two weeks for the arrangements to be made. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) 75 throughout the Central and State Offices. 
Expenditure incurred by the former Department of Overseas Trade on semi-official telephones in 1976-77 was $9,633. 
I do not know whether it is possible for me to be precise in relation to this matter, but I do not think it is very relevant because the Prime Minister has already answered a question as to when he was first informed. 
-The Government had no intention of claiming privilege for members or Ministers; nor has it any intention of doing so. 
I wish to inform the House that the Prime Minister (  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) in consultation with me has decided on proposed ministerial and administrative arrangements to apply consequent upon the Northern Territory attainment of self-government on 1 July 1978. The Minister for the Northern Territory, the Honourable Evan Adermann, will continue in that position for a transitional period of three months. It is intended that on 1 October 1978 the Northern Territory portfolio will be abolished and the residual functions will be absorbed into the Home Affairs portfolio. It is also proposed that  Mr Adermann  should become Minister for Veterans' Affairs from the beginning of July. The present Minister the  Hon.  R. V. Garland, would, of course, remain Minister for Special Trade Representations. 
I inform the House that the Minister for Special Trade Representations leaves Australia today for discussions in London, Brussels, Geneva and Paris. He is expected to return on 1 8 June. During his absence I shall act as Minister for Special Trade Representations. The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  will act as Minister for Veterans' Affairs and will be represented in this chamber by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman). 
I answered a number of questions from the Leader of the Opposition on this matter yesterday and I have no intention 24 hours later of adding anything further. The question of who goes before the Commission is a matter for the Royal Commissioner himself. 
On hearing of such an editorial appearing in the  Australian Financial Review,  my only reply is: What is new? 
It would be for the honourable member, at any rate. It is probably the sort of editorial that he would like. I think anyone who consistently reads the  Australian Financial Review- I  am not one of those people- would be aware that it is rather a harping, carping miserable newspaper as far as government performance is concerned. 
The facts of the matter are that this Government has an outstanding record of bringing some sense and stability to the economy after inheriting what was a near hopeless mess after the Labor Administration of 1972-75. We have stuck to a central theme- a strategy which has been the hard core of all the Government's decisions- and that has been to get the rate of inflation down. Whilst there may be criticism of the Prime Minister and of the Government for not doing many of the things that all of us would like to see done, we have achieved the objective of getting inflation under control. We are now getting the rate of inflation down to a level comparable with the average of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries. We believe that by the end of this year, we will be at the lower range of inflation rates around the world. I think that is a remarkably comparable performance for a government to have achieved in the period of the last two years. 
If the Leader of the Opposition thinks that a government is going to reveal all conversations of Cabinet or private discussions between Cabinet Ministers and the Prime Minister, he has another think coming. We have no intention at all of making such information available. All these questions that the Leader of the Opposition is throwing forward seem to be hypothetical. As I said before, it is not the Government's intention to interfere in or stifle these investigations in any way whatsoever. If the Leader of the Opposition likes to throw up possibilities he may continue to do so but he will not get a satisfactory answer from me. 
I answered a question in this area yesterday. I said that I would not make any comment at all about issues relating to the structure of the forthcoming Federal Budget. I shall not add to those comments now. 
-by leave- The purpose of this statement is to set out the nature of the regulation and control which the Government will exercise over the export marketing of uranium. The Parliament will recall that the Government announced on 25 August 1977 a comprehensive policy for the further development of Australia's uranium resources. That policy was based on the findings and recommendations of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry conducted under the Honourable  Mr Justice  Fox as Presiding Commissioner. 
The Government's policy is one of carefully regulated and controlled development having full regard to the protection of the environment and the welfare of the Aboriginal people. Australia's decision, as announced on 25 August 1977, to proceed with further uranium development has received wide acceptance in Australia and abroad. Our policy was decided only after most careful consideration of the report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. It is a policy based on the totality of the national interest and our obligations as a responsible member of the international community. 
Our policy clearly recognises the important role Australia must play in moves against the proliferation of nuclear weapons and the strengthening of nuclear safeguards. Australia has announced a stringent policy of nuclear safeguards to govern future export contracts and we are proceeding to implement that policy through the negotiation of comprehensive bilateral safeguards agreements with other countries. We are also taking an active role in all of the major international forums where nuclear non-proliferation and safeguards are discussed.  Mr Justice  Fox is continuing to serve our country in this important area as Australia's Ambassador-at-Large on nuclear non-proliferation and safeguards. 
Australia 's policy is based squarely on our recognition of Australia's obligations as a country well endowed with energy resources to make those resources available to other countries, many of which have no real alternative, in the wake of the world energy crisis, than to turn to nuclear energy as a means of supplying electricity to their peoples. The Ranger Inquiry laid particular stress on the orderly development of our vast uranium resources. The development of those resources, while serving the objectives just mentioned, must also be regulated and controlled so as to ensure full protection of the environment and the welfare of the Aboriginal people, and yield the economic benefits to Australia and its people that were described in the report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. An important step in the implementation of our policy was the introduction of legislation into the Parliament on 10 April 1977. That legislation puts into place much of the basic framework which will govern the process of development. 
In this statement I will describe the decisions the Government has taken in relation to the regulation and control of exports. Central to this aspect of our policy is the recommendation of the Ranger Inquiry that a uranium marketing authority be established. In my statement of 25 August 1977 I stated that the Government accepted the thrust of the recommendation of the Ranger Inquiry and that we would establish a uranium marketing authority or similar marketing arrangements to achieve the objective of orderly development. However, I explained that we would not take a final decision on that matter until the legal implications of foreign anti-trust laws have been fully examined. But I made clear that in the arrangements we made we would ensure that the Government had at all times proper knowledge, oversight and control over the arrangements under which Australian uranium is exported. That control would always ensure that the Government would be in a position to move immediately to terminate uranium development, permanently, indefinitely or for a specified period as recommended by the Ranger Inquiry. 
Against the above background the Government has considered carefully its attitude in regard to the machinery which should govern future exports of Australian uranium and I shall now explain to the House the decisions we have taken at this stage. The export of uranium is presently controlled under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations of the Customs Act 1901. Uranium exports are prohibited unless a certificate in writing under the hand of the Minister for Trade and Resources, or an officer duly authorised by him, is produced to the Collector of Customs. This will continue. 
Apart from Mary Kathleen, at present formal development approval has been granted only to the Ranger project. Should mines other than Mary Kathleen and Ranger subsequently receive Government development approval and as the flow of exports increases it may be desirable to provide for specific legislation to govern exports which would replace the existing customs regulations. But the Government sees no need in this sitting of Parliament to introduce legislation for that purpose, nor would we wish to do so prior to consultation with the States on the scope and content of any future legislation. 
The procedures I intend to adopt flow directly from the Government's determination that exports of Australian uranium will only be permitted in the national interest. In considering exports we will have regard to the principles I have already stated, some of which I now repeat briefly, namely: The orderly development of Australia's uranium resources; making supplies of uranium available to other countries for use in the generation of electricity and for other peaceful purposes; ensuring adherence to the policies of Australia in relation to the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and the application of safeguards against the use of uranium other than for peaceful purposes.. In the exercise of his powers under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations the Minister for Trade and Resources has wide discretion. For the reasons already mentioned it is both necessary and desirable that he should continue to have such a discretion. But it is also desirable that uranium producers should be informed of the way in which that discretion will normally be exercised. I shall accordingly now indicate the procedures that will need to be followed. 
The Minister's approval for the export of uranium from a particular project will be given only after full consideration by the Government following the completion of environmental procedures and compliance with the Government's foreign investment policy. I can say now, however, that Mary Kathleen Uranium Limited and the Australian Atomic Energy Commission will be permitted to export uranium, the latter from the Ranger deposit. The mining and marketing of uranium from the Ranger deposit were the subject of arrangements which the Whitlam Government entered into with Peko Mines Limited and the Electroltytic Zinc Company of Australasia Limited. Our Government previously stated on 25 August 1977, when approval for Ranger was announced, that the arrangements between the Whitlam Government and Peko/EZ would be honoured. 
Having regard to the various considerations of national interest I have previously mentioned and the diversity of our deposits it will be necessary for the Minister to exercise some control over the quantities of uranium being exported at any one time. It will also be necessary that the Minister determine in advance that the contracts which the uranium producers propose to enter into for the sale of their uranium to overseas buyers contain appropriate terms and conditions consistent with Australian Government nuclear safeguards policy. The Minister will also determine terms and conditions relating to the duration of the contract, the quantity of the uranium to be sold under the contract, the method of shipment of the uranium, the price payable for the uranium, the manner- including the currencyof payment and the use to which the uranium is to be put by the purchaser. 
It will be necessary that the Minister's requirements on the terms and conditions to be included in a particular contract be indicated to the producer before the contract is entered into. Uranium producers will accordingly need to seek the approval of the Minister before making any firm offers or entering into any legal commitments. 
When a contract has been entered into in accordance with the requirements that the Minister has notified beforehand, the producers will be required to lodge a copy of the contract with the Minister, whereupon it will be formally approved and form the basis for subsequent export approvals covering the uranium to be exported in fulfilment of the contract. I should mention, however, that contracts approved prior to 2 December 1 972 will not need further approval. 
Shipments of uranium will continue to be controlled, as is the case at present, on the basis of individual consignment. I will not issue a certificate under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations in respect of any consignment unless all aspects of Government policy are satisfied. These include the requirements that the uranium is being exported from a project which has the status of Government development approval; that the export is for the purpose of performing an approved contract; and that the Australian safeguards policy is fully complied with. 
I have referred to the Government's previously stated view that a uranium marketing authority or similar arrangements should be established. In view of the complexity of the matters that must be brought to account in considering new contracts, it is clear there would be advantages in the establishment of an authority. This body would be appropriately named the Australian Uranium Export Authority. As our industry develops and mines other than Ranger proceed to the development stage there will be a need for the Minister for Trade and Resources to have available advice from such an advisory authority on the range of matters that I have just outlined. At the present stage of our development and until there has been adequate opportunity for consultations with the States the Department of Trade and Resources will be able to perform these functions. I do not therefore see a need to proceed with legislation in the current sittings, and prior to consultations with the States on the nature and desirability of legislation. 
I envisage that at the appropriate time in our progress with uranium development a uranium export authority should be established to be charged with the duty of advising the Minister for Trade and Resources on the matters I have just outlined in relation to exports under new contracts. Such an authority would also carry out a number of important ancillary functions, namely: To assemble and to correlate information relating to the known reserves of uranium in Australia and in other countries; to obtain and analyse information on the supply of and demand for uranium in Australia and other countries; to analyse trends in the international uranium market; to obtain information on the commercial arrangements for the upgrading and enrichment of Australian uranium within and outside Australia. The Authority would draw upon information from available government and other sources for these purposes. The Authority would also liaise with, and provide information to, the Uranium Advisory Council. 
I might add that in view of the nature of the advice that the Authority would need to provide, it would not be appropriate for its members to be chosen from the companies which were participating in the marketing of uranium. Action taken in accordance with the procedures I have outlined in this statement should not give rise to any questions under the anti-trust laws of other countries. In that connection I would add that while the Government does not wish to be taken as accepting that it is appropriate for other countries to apply their anti-trust laws extra-territorily without due regard to matters affecting our national interest, we urge our producers not to resort to arrangements which would jeopardise them under those laws. Anti-trust enforcement action that has in recent years been taken in other countries, notably the United States, has made it clear that Australian producers could jeopardise their positions under the anti-trust laws of other countries by resorting to restrictive trade practices in their marketing operations with overseas buyers. 
The machinery and the procedures I have just outlined will ensure that the Government maintains strong regulation and control over uranium exports in the national interest in a manner consistent with the Government's policy of uranium development announced on 25 August 1 977 following receipt of the report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. It provides a proper basis on which Australia may proceed to the stage of new export contracts and clarifies to the existing approved and prospective projects the procedures and machinery which the Government will apply in dealing with export arrangements. I present the following report: 
Uranium Export Policy- Ministerial Statement, 1 June 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr Adermann)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
I present the Second Report of the Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health entitled 'Consultative Arrangements and the Co-ordination of Social Policy Development'. I seek leave to make an accompanying statement. 
Leave granted. 
Honourable members will recall that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  tabled the First Report of the Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health on 17 February 1977. This second and last report of the Task Force covers those terms of reference not reported on in the First Report and makes recommendations in these major areas: Firstly, it recommends a new approach to consultative arrangements across the fields of health, welfare and community development involving the establishment of a new national consultative council; secondly, better co-ordination of social policy development through a small social policy unit for a separate department under a senior Minister and a Cabinet committee with a supporting officials committee; and finally, the need for a review of co-ordination of health, welfare and community development services in the mainland Territories. 
On 19 December 1977 the Prime Minister announced that a social welfare policy secretariat would be established and that it would work through a Committee of Permanent Heads to the Social Welfare Policy Committee of Cabinet. The Secretariat now established and headed by  Dr Sidney  Sax is performing the coordination role envisaged by the Task Force. The Government has decided that the new Secretariat should be responsible, through the Permanent Heads Committee to the Cabinet Committee, for follow-up, as necessary, of any outstanding matters on the First Report of the Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health. The Secretariat has also been asked to advise, as necessary, on the Second Report's recommendations relating to consultation. 
Given the current moves towards selfgovernment in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory and the key involvement of the two Territory Legislative Assemblies, the Government will draw to the attention of the two Assemblies the Second Report's recommendation on the need to review coordination of welfare-health services in the Territories. It will suggest that the Assemblies may wish to consider this matter in the context of moves towards self-government and has offered assistance in following-up the recommendation. The members of the Task Force;  Mr P.  H. Bailey,  Mr J.  D. Rimes and  Mr E.  S. Lightly, are commended for their efforts. I table the Report for the information of honourable members. 
Motion ( by  Mr Adermann)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hayden)  adjourned. 
-The honourable member for Moore has asked a number of questions that I would like to answer. First of all he referred to the grade of rock from the Duchess deposit in Queensland. It is true that the grade of this rock is lower than that being received by manufacturers through the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission. Of course, Nauru would have one of the highest grades of rock phosphate in the world. It is a very pure grade. On Christmas Island A-grade rock is being mined at the moment, but I point out that my understanding of the situation is that the A-grade rock will last only till about 1984-85 and Christmas Island then will have to go on to B-grade rock which really needs to go through a beneficiation process to make it an attractive rock or even a rock that is comparable with that from Duchess, although Duchess rock contains silicon and a degree of fluoride which presents problems for manufacturers. 
The important point that some people are overlooking is that the prognostication for the supply of rock phosphate is somewhat doubtful. In America the demand for rock phosphate from Florida, which has one of the world's big deposits, is such that America believes that it will require all those deposits after about 1990 to meet America's requirements, which means that other countries will be then left largely dependent on deposits in North Africa. I would not like to think that the Australian farming industry, which is dependent upon phosphate for its agricultural and pastoral activities, will be in a position where it is dependent upon external sources of rock phosphate. I say that because the estimate of manufacturers both in Australia and 
New Zealand is that from this year on an increasing quantity of outside supplies of rock phosphate will be needed to meet requirements and those requirements will progressively increase. 
If Christmas Island went out of production in about 1984 or 1985 we could be looking at possibly two million to three million tonnes having to be imported each year. To allow to develop a situation in which we are vulnerable to revolution and changes of government in other parts of the world or to an OPEC-type operation in relation to the price of rock phosphate could mean that Australian users of rock phosphate and, in turn, the farmers who use superphosphate and other phosphatic fertilisers will have to pay exorbitant prices. It would be tragic when we have very large known reserves of rock phosphate if we did not plan to use those deposits as efficiently as possible and to integrate them progressively into the Australian scene, especially since we know that Nauru and Christmas Island supplies will become deficient. 

 - Sir John Hill, the  Chairman  of the British Atomic Energy Agency, visited me this week to bring me up to date with activities in Britain relating to the nuclear fuel cycle but principally to find out what progress has been made in Australia with the development of uranium and the prospects of future exports of uranium. He mentioned specifically that Britain was interested in purchasing from 1982 onwards 1,300 tonnes of uranium a year to meet its requirements. In Britain today there are 28 nuclear reactors in operation. There are 10 in the planning stage, two more just having been given approval. Some 13 per cent of British power now is being produced from nuclear operations. 
Although Britain has very significant gas and oil deposits its selection of nuclear power as part of its overall energy production is a recognition of the important part that nuclear energy can play. It is unfortunate that members of the Australian Labor Party do not seem to be able to get in step with some of their colleagues in the United Kingdom who obviously recognise the important contribution nuclear power can make to Britain's energy requirements. Alas, Labor Party supporters apparently are going to remain influenced by some of the ossified views of their party, and I think that while they retain this attitude to nuclear energy they must slowly lose the respect not only of other countries but also they will continue to lose the respect of the Australian people who recognise the important contribution nuclear power can play in supplying energy to the rest of the world. 
I do not think anybody wants to see the cost of superphosphate or any fertiliser go up when the Australian community has been in such difficult circumstances in meeting the cost increases that have occurred over recent years. Nor do I think that any responsible Australian would ever want to see their future supplies of phosphate put at risk. Australia has been fortunate in that the British Phosphate Commission and now the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission have guaranteed the regular supply of rock phosphate to our manufacturers. We have had a degree of control over these sources. But the supply from these sources is now starting to decline and the rock phosphate is becoming more expensive. We must recreate the situation in which we have a regular and secure supply of rock phosphate. I cannot think of any better means of achieving this than by utilising the discoveries that have been made in northwest Queensland. Undoubtedly the deposits in that region are of world significance. 
We have to work out a scheme whereby a minimum impost is put on the farming community during the period in which the rock from our own deposits is being integrated into the Australian system. I think it is fair to say- I would be prepared to be challenged on this-that within the foreseeable future the world price of rock phosphate will increase considerably. There was a period in 1974 when the world price of rock phosphate was double the present market price. The price rose because Morocco tried an OPEC-type operation by demanding a much higher price than it had previously received. We know that the price will go up. If an arrangement can be made whereby Australian manufacturers are able to receive a secure, reliable, and regular supply of rock phosphate, possibly under a long term arrangement for a price which does not fluctuate and which obviously over a period will be much less than the ruling price, this will be a responsible and sensible way in which the interests of not only farmers but also the whole nation can be protected. 
I did have the benefit of hearing the news service this morning and the statements which were made by  Sir Charles  Court. The understanding that I have of the Western Mining project at Yeelirrie is that the company is at the moment seeking environmental approval to put in a research plant to test the feasibility of a uranium mining operation at Yeelirrie. The program for this research project is for it to come into operation in 1 98 1 . If that operation is satisfactory, the company will proceed with the development of a full-scale mining operation which has no likelihood of coming into operation before 1 984. So there is no substance whatsoever in statements that Yeelirrie is likely to come in before the Ranger project and it is quite wrong to make statements that that project can go ahead without the satisfactory environmental impact statements that are required before any uranium project is approved. 
Regarding a nuclear reactor in Western Australia, there was no time put on this proposal. The statement, as I heard it, was that Western Australia will have a nuclear reactor or nuclear power, and I suppose that is quite a possibility in the future. But there is certainly no talk at the moment of even considering such a plant, so I think one has to say that maybe it is a possibility in the future but there is no planning at the moment. 
All I can say about anybody who uses the privilege of Parliament to make such allegations against an outstanding Australian is that his actions are deplorable and despicable.  Sir William  Vines has been a very outstanding Australian, particularly in his services to rural industries. I recall the position he occupied as Secretary of the International Wool Secretariat and the magnificent job he did in that position. He was also the first  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Corporation and helped to put that body together by incorporating all the various broker interests and wool grower interests. Today the Corporation is an established organisation underpinning wool marketing in Australia and, indeed, throughout the world. All I can say to people who want to sling off and make remarks about  Sir William  Vines is that many Australians will rise to defend him. I am one of those people. 
In answering previous questions on this matter, some from the honourable member for Kennedy, I have emphasised the importance of Australia having regular and secure supplies of phosphate rock at reasonable prices. The announcement that Queensland Phosphate Ltd would close down was a matter of concern for the Government. This is a rather complex issue because we have depended entirely for our supplies on Nauru and other island suppliers which, of course, are not infinite supplies. These matters need to be looked at seriously. There is the problem of whether manufacturers are able to cope with the type of rock that comes from the Duchess deposit. As a result of these various problems, in conjunction with the Minister for Industry and Commerce and the Minister for Administrative Services, who looks after the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission, I called a meeting of the various groups- the fertiliser manufacturers, Christmas Island Phosphate Commission and Queensland Phosphate Limited. This was a very frank and free discussion but the important thing that came out of it was revised estimates brought forward by the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission. They showed that the supply/demand situation was better than had been anticipated even some months ago. There have been some changes in the Nauruan situation and the Commission also believes that by mixing the A and B grade phosphate from Christmas Island it has sufficient supplies for possibly another 10 years. 
The upshot of all these discussions was that if the manufacturers of superphosphate were to take the Duchess rock they could only progressively take it in small amounts in the initial years, and this would not be of sufficient volume to help Duchess with its problem. As it all turned out I do not think there is anything more the Government can do in relation to the decision of Queensland Phosphate Ltd to close the mine, unfortunate as that is, because the circumstances are such that the Australian manufacturers are not able to take that sort of rock at this point of time and there does not seem to be any serious problem as to the supply situation for the next 10 years. 
-I made it quite clear that the Government had no intention of exercising privilege over the Royal Commission calling people before it to give evidence. I also made it quite clear that evidence relating to Cabinet meetings or informal meetings of Ministers, which are virtually Cabinet meetings whether they be held at the Lodge or anywhere else, would not be revealed. It is not the Government's intention that these conversations become public. The question of whether the Prime Minister will or will not take the action referred to by the honourable member is a hypothetical one and I do not intend answering it. 
I think all of us are well aware of the disastrous floods in Victoria. I think we all want to say how concerned we are about the hardship that has been inflicted and the loss of property and stock that has occurred. We would all want to express sympathy to the people affected by these unfortunate circumstances. The Commonwealth has always acted speedily in these matters and will continue to do so. The Federal Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has already visited the areas concerned and he reported to Cabinet this morning on the extent and damage of the floods. As a result of that report I immediately sent a telex to the Premier of Victoria assuring him that we would undertake to give assistance under our natural disaster arrangements. Last year we provided $3.2m to Victoria to help with natural disasters and this financial year we have already provided about $ 1.8m. It is hard to estimate the amount of money needed to meet the circumstances of the present floods but the Commonwealth will give whatever financial help and support it can. We have also used our armed forces. They took immediate action to protect human life. When emergency supplies have been necessary we have given whatever assistance we could. I want to assure the honourable member and the people of Victoria that the Commonwealth will not hesitate to provide what assistance is necessary. 
On a number of occasions in answering questions in this House and statements outside, I have pointed to the need for the United States of America to consider very seriously increasing her meat quotas this year or lifting her voluntary restraints altogether because of the way in which meat prices in America have been rising very substantially, and so having a bearing on her own inflation. I am informed that since February this year, on a seasonally adjusted basis, beef prices in the United States of America have risen at the annual rate of 68 per cent, which is a very substantial lift. Last Friday I put out a statement that it was reported that, in discussions between  President  Carter and his senior advisers, it was agreed that this question ought to be looked at. I think it is most fortunate and most timely that our Prime Minister is now in the United States, able to put the point of view of Australia and her beef industry to the President's special economic adviser on inflation,  Mr Strauss,  in relation to the supply of beef to that country. 
I understand that  President  Carter's advisers have put three options to him: To wait for 60 to 90 days and see what action ought to be taken; to remove import restraints completely; or to renegotiate restraints at a substantially higher level than at present. I hope that America will not do what she did in 1972, in similar circumstances, when she delayed for a considerable time before actually lifting the import restrictions. By that time a good deal of damage had been done. I believe that there is a very strong case at the moment for America easing her voluntary restraints on meat and letting more in. If she wants to control her inflation problems and the impact on them of meat, Australia is very well placed to supply additional meat if she requires it. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
On 13 April I made a comprehensive statement to the House announcing a series of export development initiatives the Government had decided to take. These initiatives were directed towards encouraging Australian firms to more actively seek out and pursue export opportunities and to increase their export sales. The purpose of this Bill is to bring into effect one of the key measures described in the statement- namely a new export incentives scheme based on increased export performance. Because of the importance of the matter, the complexity of the administrative issues involved and the need to ensure that the provisions of the Bill when enaced will achieve the objective of the Government of rewarding efforts to increase exports, the Government does not intend to seek the passage of the Bill in the time remaining for this session. The Government would have preferred to see the Bill enacted during this session. However, there is not enough time left to allow full consideration of this matter, which has such important implications. Its introduction now will give the trading community concrete evidence that the Government is determined to fulfil its promise to bring in the new export incentives scheme and at the same time give Parliament adequate opportunity of seeking how the Government intends the new scheme to operate. 
The debate on the Bill and its enactment will take place during the Budget session by which time honourable members will have had the opportunity to consider thoroughly the issues involved. Dealing with the matter in this way will not affect the entitlements under the new scheme. As previously announced, grants will be payable in respect of increased exports in 1977-78 over the base period of the preceding three years. 
The new scheme will be complementary to the current export market development grants scheme which has been in force for some years but which by itself does not give sufficient encouragement for increased exports. With respect to the EMDG scheme honourable members will recall that, following the report of the Industries Assistance Commission, the Government announced that it had accepted the Commission's recommendations and that appropriate amendments would be made to the Act. Intended amendments to the Act were set out in my statement to the House of 13 April 1978. Because of the need to give priority to preparing the Bill now before the House, a Bill to give effect to the decisions amending the EMDG scheme will not be introduced until the Budget session. It should be noted that the current provisions of the Export Market Development Grants Act remain in force for the 1977-78 grant year. Applications for grants in respect of the 1977-78 grant year therefore should be made in the normal manner and application forms will be made available shortly. 
The Bill now before the House will provide a financial incentive by way of grants to encourage exporters to improve their export performance and more actively pursue export opportunities. This measure is in accordance with the Government's long-term policy of providing encouragement for the development of export orientated industries. The cost of this scheme is estimated to be about $66m in the first year of its operation. It will operate until 30 June 1982 with allowance for review before this date to ascertain whether the scheme should be extended or modified. 
Honourable members will note that similar administrative provisions to that of the current Export Market Development Grants Act are proposed. The scheme will be administered by the Export Development Grants Board. There will be an additional provision to permit appeals against the Board's decisions to be heard by an independent body- the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. 
The Export Expansion Grants Bill provides for the payment of taxable cash grants calculated on a formula applied to the increase in exports in the grant year over the average annual exports in the three immediately preceding years. Provision is to be made by way of regulation for a variation of the base period relating to the particular goods and services to take account of special situations and for the Board to determine, if it considers such action warranted, the base period figure for individual claimants who have been affected by abnormal trading conditions or extraordinary circumstances. 
I will now draw the attention of honourable members to some of the particular provisions where the Bill spells out the Government's intentions in more detail than previously given. In the case of the new exporters, it will be necessary to make provision for the Board to determine a notional base so as to avoid damaging the interests of existing exporters and yet retain an incentive. Accordingly the Bill provides for new exporters to be given a notional base figure which will be equal to two-thirds of the grant year export earnings. The scheme is to cover exports of manufactured goods, some bulk farm and agricultural products, services provided overseas, value added industrial services provided in Australia performed on overseas owned items subsequently re-exported, and the sale of industrial property rights and know-how that are substantially of Australian origin. 
The new scheme is designed to provide incentives to those export sectors that will be most responsive to such incentives and to distribute the funds available in an equitable manner as between small and large exporters. The Bill therefore will provide for, initially, a list of exclusions that are considered not to lend themselves to this kind of incentive. Accordingly the Government had decided to exclude certain items from the scheme at this stage. These are listed in clause 3 of the Bill. Generally speaking the items excluded relate to materials in the raw or unprocessed state with very little value added. Export earnings arising from eligible goods are to be the f.o.b. value of the goods themselves including packaging and export payment insurance premiums. In the case of supply overseas of eligible services and including internal value added industrial services such as ship and aircraft repair to foreign vessels, the export earnings will be the value of the net considerations received or receivable from the overseas party to the contract. 
Entitlement to a grant is to be vested in those individuals, partnerships, companies or prescribed bodies who are carrying on business in Australia and who have increased their export earnings in respect of eligible goods, services and know-how. The person who will be entitled to receive a grant will be the person who is the Australian contracting party in the export transaction with the overseas buyer, and is entitled to the export earnings resulting from the contract. In short, those who have sought out the opportunities for increasing exports and who carry the responsibility to see the export transactions through will be entitled to the grants. 
As I have mentioned previously the amendments to the Export Market Development Grants Act will be introduced for passage in the next session. The two schemes taken together will provide a comprehensive program of incentives to underpin the Government's long-term policy of encouraging the development of export oriented productive resources. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I must give the Leader of the Opposition credit for his persistence but I have to repeat that these matters are before the Royal Commission at the moment and it would be quite wrong of me to make any comment. 
I do not know who launched the  Australian Progress.  Who launched it? 
It is clear that anything that comes to the honourable member's mind is good enough. It does not matter whose name he damages in the process. If he is making any reference to the  Australian Prospector  which my wife launched, I am quite happy to say that she received a gold bracelet and that was handed in to the Prime Minister's Department for valuation. 
I inform the House that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations leaves Australia  today to  attend the 64th session of the International Labour Organisation Conference in Geneva and to have discussions elsewhere in Europe and in the United States of America. He is expected to return on 28 June. During his absence the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs will act as Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. He will also represent the Minister for Administative Services in this chamber. 
There has been a good deal of speculation around the community about a change of direction in government policy. Let me make it quite clear that when this Government went to the people in both  1975  and  1976  it laid down quite emphatically that its main economic strategy was to control inflation. One of the basic ingredients in controlling inflation is to keep a firm grip on government expenditure. If we recall the disastrous years of economic management under a Labor regime we will remember very clearly that members of that regime acted as delinquents in the management of the Australian economy. During a period of three years the rate of government expenditure rose  100  per cent. It was from that tremendous fillip that all the economic problems of this country followed, such as business stagnation and the very high level of unemployment which exists today. 
The Government is determined not to change its direction by trying to stimulate the economy with increased government expenditure. The Government is going to give encouragement to increased productivity in selected areas. I have announced that there will be export incentives; the export market development grants scheme will be improved; research and development grants will be considered; and we will give encouragement to and will work with the States in the reprocessing of Australian raw materials. All this means that we are directing our attention towards the private sector. The Government is directing its attention to those areas that will lift the overall productivity of this country and give us more economic strength to deal with many of the problems that exist. Those people who think that the Government is going to change course and that it is going to undermine the consolidation that it has established already in getting this country on a sound basis, in giving confidence to people to invest and in attracting overseas interests to come back and participate in the development of this country have another think coming. 
I noted the remarks made by  Mr Wran,  the Premier of New South Wales. I want to say how very right he was in praising the Prime Minister for his policies and efforts to get inflation under control. He was right in recognising the massive task that is involved in taking difficult decisions to try to reduce the rate of government expenditure, as the Government has had to do. I also noted the comments of the Premier of New South Wales on the need for foreign investment to try to get more development going and the support needed for employers and investors if we are to get the private sector of this country moving. All I want to say about the Premier of New South Wales is that at least he is consistent. A few weeks ago when he was in the United States he made the comment that American investors could look with confidence to Australia as being a stable and reliable country and that the Liberal-National Country parties were certain to remain in office for at least another two terms. 
I should like to refer also to some other comments made by the Premier of New South Wales. In his speech yesterday to a Rotary club in Sydney he referred to the helter-skelter years of the Federal Labor Government. I have to agree with him. They were years when we saw inflation go mad and unemployment attack this country as we had never seen before. We have to agree that the efforts of this Government to restore economic sanity and to get confidence back into this country are a credit to the Prime Minister and his Government. They have sought to bring about the sort of stability that all of us want. 
If it pleases the honourable gentleman, I have no recollection of being present at any such meeting when such matters were discussed. 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker,  for giving me help as to how I should answer this question. Certain evidence has been given before the Royal Commission. The hearings were completed last night. The findings will now be prepared and recommendations will be made by that Commission. Until those recommendations are made I have no comment to make. 
I am very pleased to answer this question because I have received information this morning that a decision has been made by the United States Administration to permit a substantial increase in the quantities of beef to go into the United States. I understand that the  President  of the United States will make an announcement on the actual figures shortly. I do not want to address myself to the figures that are likely to come forward, except to say that the figures that have been suggested do indicate that this is equivalent to a major new market for Australian beef exports and it means a major new market at top prices. 
It can radically change the meat situation in Australia. It has the potential of bringing into balance the supply-demand situation, which means that beef producers may have a chanceand I only say may have a chance- of getting prices which are reasonable and equitable to them as comparable Australian producers. This, of course, will have consequences on domestic meat prices and I hope that, if people have to pay higher prices for meat, they recognise that the beef producers of this country have been on a very low income or in a negative income situation for about three or four years. It is most pleasing that we have the opportunity now of exporting more beef. It will be a quota arrangement, I am told. That quota will apply to the second half of this year. If one takes it on an annual basis, whatever figure comes out will mean quite a substantial difference. 
I have noticed a lot of carping criticism in the newspapers in the last few days about the Prime Minister's visit to the United States. Let me say that his efforts in talking to the President's special inflation adviser and international negotiator,  Mr Robert  Strauss, and the result of this decision to increase quota more than compensate for a Prime Minister's visit right round the world. This is a major achievement and one for which I think beef producers in this country will be grateful for a long time. It does verify statements that I have been making during the course of this year that America's voluntary quota restraints have been too restrictive and have had the effect of increasing beef prices in the United States. We are fortunate in that if the United States is to increase its global quota we are in a position immediately to meet whatever that quota might be; and of course, it has the advantage of helping the Australian beef industry to try to get itself out of the quagmire of disastrously low prices that it has been in for the last few years. 
The Opposition continues to try to prise out of me comments regarding the findings - 
If the honourable member who interjects is so brilliant in his knowledge relating to these affairs, why did he not go before the Royal Commission and give information? Of course, he has no evidence. 
I repeat what I have said previously: I do not intend to comment about these matters. I have not been involved with them myself. If the Royal Commission had felt that I had information that would help it in reaching whatever findings it might reach, it would have asked for me to appear before it. 
-We will have to agree to differ if the honourable member keeps claiming that it has no reference to the Royal Commission. These dates and facts have been debated before the Royal Commission during the course of the past week and I am not going to enter into that debate because it has no relevance to me. 
-The Leader of the Opposition is obviously now making himself the laughing stock of Australia. We have all been prepared to sit back and see him perform during his first parliamentary session as Leader of the Labor Party and hope that he might give some sort of inspiration to a declining Labor Party which seems to be riddled with ali sorts of problems, such as whether it will follow the course of socialism being followed by the trade union movement. The Labor Party seems to be quite leaderless at the moment. I hate to say this, on the last day of this session, but when we compare the performance of the Leader of the Opposition with that of the Prime Minister, the Leader of the Opposition is in a very secondary position. He cannot be much encouragement to his Party. When we hear questions like this being asked at Question Time by the Leader of the Opposition we realise that he is harping and carping. He is scraping the bottom of the barrel. He cannot bring up any decent national policies but tries to make implications about the behaviour of Ministers and secret meetings. It just shows how desperate members of the Labor Party are to present themselves to the Australian public. All I can say is that the Leader of the Opposition is really not displaying himself as a very credible alternative Prime Minister of this country. 
by leave- During the months immediately ahead, the main trading nations will be making decisions which will be of crucial importance to the future of the international economy and world trade. The Tokyo round of trade negotiations which began in 1973, is now entering its final stages. The United States of America is aiming for an outline package of decisions by midJuly. By the time the Parliament resumes, therefore, decisions will have been taken which will be of far-reaching consequence. It would not be an exaggeration to say that they could set the climate within which international trade will be conducted for the rest of this century. If the negotiations achieve their objective of reducing barriers so that world trade can continue to expand, they will have made a major contribution to the further growth of the world economy and to the raising of living standards in both the developed and the developing countries. On the other hand, if the negotiations fail, there is a serious risk of a world-wide retreat to protectionism. That is what happened in the 1930s and it would be a tragedy if it were to happen again. It is in Australia's interests, as a country heavily dependent on world trade, to avoid that outcome. We also have a responsibility, as a member of the international community with a special opportunity to understand the interests of both industrialised and developing countries, to do all that is within our power to make the negotiations a success. If they are not, it will not be for any want of trying on our part. 
Australia was one of the foundation members of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and for 30 years has been amongst the strongest supporters of its principles. As one of the world 's most responsible trading nations we have participated in all the GATT rounds of trade negotiations to date. A principal source of disappointment to Australia has been the failure of these GATT rounds and GATT itself to come to grips with all the problems of world trade. Whilst world trade has grown, its benefits have been unevenly distributed. In the Government's view, the world economic and trade situation is at a critical point. That is why we believe that all countries have a responsibility to seek every avenue to support the continued growth of world trade. There is no section of the Australian economy that does not benefit directly or indirectly from a buoyant world trading economy. Our mineral exports are dependent on the major industrialised nations being able to find expanding outlets for their products. Our objective of a strengthened and more export oriented manufacturing sector geared to our abundant natural resources depends on the availability of a growing world market, particularly in Asia. We have the ability to supply larger quantities of agricultural products to meet the needs of growing numbers of people with improving standards of living. Thus it is not a question of a trade-off between the manufacturing and agricultural sectors. All sectors of the Australian economy stand to benefit from a favourable outcome from the negotiations; equally all would suffer from a major setback to world trade. 
Although the multilateral trade negotiations had their genesis in a period of unparalleled prosperity, the subsequent changes in world economic conditions have given them a much different practical and psychological significance. If the MTN do not achieve their objectives the great global effort to free up trade will have left many of the participants in them less than satisfied. Disappointment at such an outcome would undoubtedly encourage the emergence of beggar my neighbour' policies round the world. The world trading situation would go into decline with all the consequences that has for both the Western and the developing worlds. If this were to happen there is little doubt that Australia as a trading nation would be a net loser. The Government is therefore determined to do all it can, consistent with fairness on all sides, to make the MTN work. 
In line with this attitude the Government has decided that Australia should engage fully in every aspect of the negotiations. The negotiations are the most wide-ranging and comprehensive ever undertaken. They are not concerned solely with tariffs. In fact tariffs are becoming increasingly less signficant in many countries' protective systems. The structure of the negotiations reflect this fact. Apart from tariffs, the negotiations are concentrating on non-tariff barriers both as they apply to specific products and in terms of codes, covering such things as standards, import licensing and customs valuation. The adequacy of GATT to deal with current and prospective trade problems is also under examination. Not the least amongst the questions being addressed in the negotiations is that of special and differential treatment for developing countries where this can be provided. 
We have so far stood aside from the formula approach adopted for the negotiation of reduced tariffs on industrial products. Our decision to do so was not taken lightly. It followed agreement among the major industrialised countries, reached in the face of strenuous Australian opposition, that negotiations in the agricultural sector, unlike those on industrial products, should take place on a selective item-by-item basis. The Government took the view that it was entirely appropriate for Australia to adopt a similar itembyitem approach on industrial products and we have made offers on that basis. I am bound to say that, in a negotiating sense, that decision has been well vindicated by developments to date. The offers of concessions so far made to Australia on agricultural products provide little or no prospect of growth for Australian exports. 
Nevertheless, for the reasons I have already mentioned and having regard for the determination expressed by the United States that a significant liberalisation of agricultural trade should be achieved in the MTN, it is clear that the Australian stance must be predicted on an assumption that the negotiations will bring benefits to all participants. The Government has therefore been examining closely the implications of adopting the formula approach to the reduction of industrial tariffs taking into account its policy objectives of encouraging the development of a more efficient and productive Australian manufacturing sector in the long run while avoiding short run economic and social disruption. This examination showed that with apropriate exceptions and safeguards the formula approach could be applied in a way which is consistent with the policies outlined in the Government's White Paper on manufacturing industry. 
In the light of these considerations the Government has decided to issue a challenge to the leading participants by upgrading the Australian offer. We will challenge them greatly to improve their own offers, particularly in regard to trade in agricultural products. Subject to full reciprocity and appropriate safeguards Australia will offer to negotiate within the framework of the industrial tariff formula. It is important that it be clearly understood that the use of a formula is merely a convenient way of settling a basis for negotiation. It is an approach which, if it is to be implemented, must be reciprocated if not in this part of the negotiations, then somewhere else. A fundamental principle of the negotiations as stated in the Tokyo declaration is that they should advance on the basis of mutual advantage and reciprocity. Reciprocation can come in two ways- by upgrading offers or scaling down offers. 
Most of the developed countries participating in the negotiations including the United States of 
America, Japan and the European Economic Community have already decided to adopt a formula approach to the reduction of tariffs on industrial products. The formula is intended to achieve a trade weighted average reduction of 40 per cent in the tariffs on these goods which are denned as all the goods, other than agricultural products, falling within chapters 25 to 99 of the Tariff Nomenclature. This overall reduction is to bc made in eight annual steps beginning in 1980. 
There are variations as between countries in the way in which the formula will be applied. The details  ;i re  confidential to participants but some information is available publicly. The  United  Slates, for example, is obliged under its Trade Act to exclude products that are subject to emergency import relief action. Canada has announced that its offer is subject to conditions including the possibility of excluding some items. Japan has also announced that its offer is subject to exceptions, lt can be expected that to the extent that some countries depart from the strict application of the formula, other countries will make compensating adjustments during the course of the negotiations. Similarly the offer by Australia to adopt the formula approach will be subject to conditions of this kind appropriate to our circumstances including the following: 
We reserve the right to vary the offer at our discretion if less than full reciprocity is gained. 
We will specify a base date that will mean that credit is given for the 25 per cent and subsequent tariff cuts. 
We will except from tariff reductions items subject to temporary protection. 
We will modify the formula for items where tariffs have been increased since 1973. 
We reserve the right to rationalise and simplify the tariff. 
The offer must, of course, be on the understanding that the existing GATT provisions which allow countries to apply temporary protective measures, such as temporary duties and quantitative import restraints to prevent serious disruption to domestic industries, will be continued on an acceptable basis. The practical effect of all of these conditions is to enable Australia to make adjustments to or withdrawals from its offer during the negotiations. No government participating in the negotiations is committed to implementing offers if, in the light of the circumstances of the time, that action would not be in the nation 's overall interests. This is a consideration which goes beyond the particular question of reciprocity. 
I reiterate that Australia's offer is firmly premised on full credit being given for the 25 per cent and subsequent tariff cuts. Australia claimed this in Tokyo in 1973 as the basis of its participation in the Multilateral Trade Negotiations. We cannot accept, as has been argued internationally, that Australia should be penalised because it was one of the few countries in the world to make any substantial reductions in tariffs since the Kennedy Round. I have already mentioned that reductions under the formula approach are to be made in eight annual steps beginning in 1980. This, taken with the tariff reductions Australia has already made, means that, even if the offer were to be implemented in full, any further cuts will be much less on average than the overall formula figure of 40 per cent. Moreover, in those circumstances, current tariff rates for most items would not have to be reduced before 1984 or 1985. 
Australia's assistance machinery will continue to operate during the negotiations. As already mentioned, products which are subject to temporary protection have been excluded from the offer and further exceptions will be made where the Government considers temporary protection is warranted following the normal inquiry by the Temporary Assistance Authority or the Industries Assistance Commission. Recommendations in reports received from the IAC on matters other than temporary protection will be considered by the Government in the usual way and adjustments made to Australia's offer if the Government considers this is warranted. 
I must emphasise that there are significant differences between the adoption of this formula approach and the July 1973 across the board tariff cut of 25 per cent: 
It is an offer and not a commitment to cut tariffs at this point. 
Reciprocity will be required for any further cuts which are implemented. 
Quite apart from the question of any further reductions, the 25 per cent and subsequent tariff cuts will now become subject to reciprocity. 
Any cuts will be phased in small steps over a period of years. 
The reciprocity requirement will ensure that the only conditions under which implementation will take place will be those that will bring overall economic benefit to Australia. 
Important opportunities for Australia's future development structure would flow from a successful outcome to the Multilateral Trade Negotiations. In a world with a growing demand for resources Australia stands in an advantageous position. Though our population is small, the nation possesses large resources in its pastoral and agricultural industries, its developed and potential reserves of minerals and energyproducing materials, and the yet un-tapped resources of its surrounding seas and continental shelf. This situation implies new opportunities for our industries to serve world markets. 
In its election policy statement the Government foreshadowed various measures which will assist Australian manufacturing industries to take advantage of these opportunities. These included export incentives, a review of industrial research and development and action to encourage the development of export industries processing Australian raw materials. Comprehensive export incentives have already been announced and action is proceeding on the other commitments. The Government is convinced that, in adopting this approach, Australia is supporting the continued growth of international trade which is so vital to the improvement of the standard of living of the people of developed and developing countries alike. I present the following paper: 
Australia and the Multilateral Trade Negotiations- Ministerial Statement, 8 June 1 978. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Sitting suspended from  6.1  to  8  p.m. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments of general revenue assistance to local government authorities, on the recommendation of State Grants Commissions, are completely untied. Councils are under no directions concerning the use of these funds. Section 7 of the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1 976 specifically states that payments to local Government bodies under the tax sharing arrangements are 'unconditional '. The grants are intended as a supplement to Council revenues to assist Councils in forward budgeting and to provide for their greater independence of action. 
) When the Government introduces increases in general revenue assistance to local government above the present 1.S2 per cent of personal income tax collections, it does not intend introducing any changes to the unconditional arrangements that exist now. 
The Government's federalism policy seeks to ensure that local government autonomy is not eroded and that local government is given continued access to revenues of known or predictable dimensions. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the Prime Minister indicated to the House in his speech on 25 October last year the Government had decided to accept the basic judgments of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security. One of the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security was: 
That it operates within the terms of its statute and is concerned only with matters relevant to security. 
b) That it always complies with the law. 
And that it observes standards of propriety by not intruding on the rights and freedom of persons except to the extent that the requirements of the nation's security justify, and the law allows. 
The Government has directed the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to comply with these recommendations. 
Moreover, if a citizen should surfer injury from an illegal activity of the security service, he could obtain redress in the ordinary courts. 
Commonwealth employees and persons in certain 'immigration' categories will be able to have ASIO's security assessment of them subject to independent review by the new Security Appeals Tribunal.  Mr Justice  Hope found that without adequate machinery for review of security assessments of persons . . . grave and permanent injustices can occur'. (Second Report of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security, AGPS 1977; para. 200). The establishment of the new Tribunal will rectify this and will therefore function as a major civil liberties safeguard in relation to ASIO's security assessments. It is anticipated that the legislation bringing into effect the changes to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, including the establishment of this Tribunal, will be introduced during the forthcoming Budget sittings. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) According to the Financial Statement delivered to the South Australian Parliament on 6 October 1977 by the Premier, the South Australian Government has provided from its revenue account $22,559,000 for unemployment relief since 1975-76 and proposed to provide in 1977-78 $22, 1 80,000 taking the total to $44,739,000. 
As with all other State Governments, the South Australian Government has the responsibility for deciding how it will disburse the general purpose monies it receives from the Commonwealth Government under the income tax sharing and Loan Council arrangements and the revenues it raises within its borders by way of State-type taxation measures such as payroll tax, stamp duty and motor vehicle registration charges. 
Substantial benefits are already being paid to and for the unemployed on a nation-wide basis by the Commonwealth Government. For example in relation to the National Employment and Training System and various other Commonwealth Government assistance schemes designed to lessen the problems of unemployed persons, it is estimated that a total expenditure of $124,690,000 will be incurred during 1977-78. This amount represents a significant increase on actual expenditure on these schemes during 1976-77 ($71,980,062) and 1975-76 ($75,078,913). The following table presents a breakdown of the above expenditures according to the individual schemes involved: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Labour Force Survey conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics provides estimates of the civilian labour force aged 15 years and over, and includes employees, employers and self-employed persons. 
The survey estimates indicate that in August 1975- the last full survey period under the previous Government- total civilian employment was 5,688,100. The most recent figures available on 7 December 1977 were for August 1977 and they indicated that total civilian employment was estimated at 5,867,800-an increase of 1 79,700 over the period. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The results of inquiries indicate that no current members of Ministers 'staff have received offers of free overseas travel from any private individual or organisation since 1 1 November 1975. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. To date, Commonwealth assistance to Land Councils and Land Trusts in various States and the Northern Territory has been generally confined to those bodies established on an official basis. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 understand that in response to a general invitation to all Public Service Boards an officer of the Queensland Public Service Board took part in discussions organised by the Advisory Council for Inter-government Relations in Sydney on 10 February 1978 and presented a paper on the question of the costs and benefits of an interchange of personnel between the three spheres of government. 
Two matters have been referred to the Council by the Premiers ' Conference for inquiry and report: 
an examination of the relationships which should exist between Federal, State and local governments; 
a study of the costs and benefits of an interchange of personnel between and three spheres of government and recommendations for selected implementation of a staff exchange program. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No arrangements have been concluded for supply of Australian uranium to the Philippines. 
-As the Prime Minister has said, he will be making a statement on this matter. With respect, that will give a satisfactory answer to the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
to (9) See answer to ( 1 ). 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No arrangements have been concluded for the supply of Australian uranium to the Philippines. 
I would like to associate the members of the National Country Party with the expressions of regret made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  on the Death of Pope Paul VI. Pope Paul died in the 1 5th year of his pontificate. In those 15 years, he experience developments and changes which no Pope before him had seen. Pope Paul's reign saw not only great changes in his own Church but in the views and standards relating to many facets of life. He had to face up to many difficult and controversial issues and he did so with courage and resolution. He fought for the improvement of social welfare and development. He travelled widely to promote peace and goodwill. He visited not only christian countries but also opened up communication between the Vatican and communist countries. Pope Paul travelled to many countries throughout the world, and in Australia in 1970 he was greeted warmly by people of all faiths.  His  Australian visit was the first ever undertaken by a Pope. It contributed to bringing closer together Australian Christians and church leaders- an objective Pope Paul pursued throughout his time in office. 
During Pope Paul's 1 5-year reign, there were challenges by many Roman Catholics throughout the world to some of the centuries-old principles embodied in the activities and dogma of the Church.  His  determinaton to face these challenges firmly and without equivocation won him great respect, if not always agreement. One of the principal achievements of Pope Paul was to arrange the Second Vatican Council. Pope Paul worked tirelessly to re-unite the whole Christian Church. He will be remembered for important changes within the Church, for his untiring efforts and contributions to peace and for his humanitarian understanding of world problems and conflicts. Prior to his death, he asked that no monument should be erected to him, but Pope Paul established his own monument in the 15 years of his office. The world is saddened by his death. 
There has been very great concern about the lowering of the world price of sugar, particularly since we negotiated an International Sugar Agreement last year with the hope of improving the price. The main reason that the price has not responded has been the delay in the United States ratifying the International Sugar Agreement and the European Economic Community not becoming associated with that Agreement and restraining its exports to the world market. This year the EEC has given approval for 2.9 million tonnes of sugar to be exported with an export subsidy in excess of $700m. This, of course, is having a very disruptive effect on the world price and the operations of the International Sugar Agreement. 
While in Geneva I had discussions with senior officials, both of the United States Government and the EEC, and asked that they take appropriate action. I also spoke to the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development to obtain the support of the developing countries, which are greatly concerned, so that they may use their influence and pressure. I also called a meeting of the International Sugar Council executive so that it might confirm its desire that America and the EEC take action. I believe that all of these steps are leading to a situation where the American Congress will ratify the Agreement. This probably will not take place until next month. If it does not ratify it, I believe that will have very serious consequences for the International Sugar Agreement, for 
UNCTAD, for the integrated commodity program and for the Common Fund. So it is very important that the United States ratifies it and that the EEC becomes a member. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  today has made a statement setting out the facts relating to the findings of the McGregor Royal Commission concerning serious allegations that had been made - 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

-The Prime Minister has made a statement regarding the serious allegations that had been made concerning the redistribution in Queensland relating to the electorate of McPherson. I believe that that statement shows clearly that the Government has acted properly and reveals all the facts related to this situation. Today the Opposition and, to a degree, the media have tried to present the whole situation dramatically but 1 think it is fair to say that the view of the Australian public is one of massive indifference since the Prime Minister announced the Government's decision relating to the findings of the Royal Commission. I suppose it is a fairly common thing for those who sit in this place and for those who look down upon us in judgment to see our actions as being a lot more important and significant than they really are. Nevertheless, we would be wrong to fail to recognise, as did the  Sydney Morning Herald  in an editorial of 9 August, that the issue involved in the matter we are now discussing is one of principle. 
The principle, of course, is that Ministers are expected to act not merely in accordance with the law but in accordance with standards of ethics and conduct of a high order. When a royal commission declares that a Minister has acted with impropriety, there is no alternative but for the Prime Minister to ask for the Minister's resignation or, if necessary, to remove him from the Ministry. The Prime Minister must take this action no matter what he or his ministerial colleagues or anyone else for that matter might think of the findings of the royal commission. The Prime Minister must take this action no matter what the degree of guilt involved and no matter what the political and other consequences of his action might be. When a finding of impropriety is embodied in the report of a royal commission the Prime Minister is left in the most unenviable position of having to embark upon a course of action which allows no half measures. As a journalist in the Press Gallery put it, there is no way you can have a half hanging even though the crime may not be a hanging one. When the 
Prime Minister is a man who has consciously and properly set great store on integrity and probity in government, there can be no doubt whatever as to the course he must follow. 
Perhaps it would be worth taking a couple of minutes to ask ourselves what the consequences would have been if the Prime Minister had not responded to the findings of the Royal Commission in the way he did. The criticism which the Opposition has already directed at the Government would be nothing compared with its criticism if the Prime Minister had failed to take the course of action he took. Yet today honourable members opposite are desperately trying to manufacture other issues, to imagine conspiracies and what have you. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  says that he will continue to bring up this matter day after day, month after month. If he does I think it will show the inadequacy of the Leader of the Opposition in coping with his job. The matter has been resolved properly and clearly and, I believe, to the satisfaction of the Australian people. When this matter became an issue of significance about 10 days ago there was a question in the minds of some people as to whether the Prime Minister should accept the findings of the Royal Commission and take the course dictated by those findings. Certainly there was a great deal of concern and sympathy for  Senator Withers.  When I became fully aware of the Royal Commission's findings- as I was away from Australia I did not know of them immediately- there was no doubt in my mind as to what must happen. I made it quite clear to the Prime Minister when I spoke to him from Manila late in the afternoon of Monday, 7 August, that I could see no alternative to what the Government proposed to do and what I fully supported. This should give the lie to the suggestion that I changed my attitude after I returned to Australia on Wednesday of last week or that I was in some way concerned about the attitude of my senior colleagues. These suggestions, which have been reported in a most irresponsible manner in at least one newspaper, are absolutely without foundation or truth. If the Prime Minister had not done what he did there would have been very serious and firm grounds for criticism of him. A royal commission is not established lightly. Its findings are not to be regarded lightly. To do so would be to weaken public respect for the standing of royal commissions as a means of inquiry. To disregard the findings of a royal commission which has been asked to examine specific allegations of malpractice would be to throw into contempt not only the commission directly concerned but future commissions as well. The Opposition and the media would have a real field day claiming, as they would have every right to do, that a government that ignored the findings of a royal commission could not be trusted to respect the findings of any future royal commission it set up. 
Every time in the future a government found it necessary to set up a royal commission for one reason or another, the opposition immediately would raise the cry that such action was a farce because the government could not be trusted to respect or act on the findings of a royal commission. The Australian people would have every reason then to be suspicious of the integrity and trustworthiness of the government and the Prime Minister if the Prime Minister failed to take such a course. I hope that those people who, with me, feel very deeply for  Senator Withers  will bear these things in mind. The question which arises now, according to the Opposition and the media, is why the Prime Minister and other Ministers, if they knew in April or on some earlier date what  Senator Withers  had done, did not act on the information at the time.  Mr Speaker,  as you probably know, I had some difficulty recalling with precision what happened on particular dates, or what I learned about particular matters and when. If I inadvertently misled anyone in regard to these matters, I apologise. 
The question now directed at me is why, if I learned in April of  Senator Withers'  phone call to the Chief Electoral Officer, I did not immediately react as some people are saying now I should have reacted. The Prime Minister has told the House that he first became aware of this matter of a phone call on 16 April. To the best of my recollection I became aware of it the next day. I have to say, quite frankly, that when I learnt of this matter, apparently on 17 April, I was not seized with a sense of outrage, a feeling that something sinister or improper had occurred or a belief that  Senator Withers  had done something which demanded immediate action on the part of the Prime Minister. Perhaps I should have experienced these feelings. Perhaps it is true to say, to borrow some words from an editorial in the Melbourne  Age,  that a judge's conception of propriety is rather stricter than that of the average politician; but the fact is that I did not react as some people now tell me I should have reacted. 
On 23 April the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  said that he did not see  Senator Withers'  actions as contravening the Electoral 
Act, and of course the Royal Commission confirmed that view. But because the information was relevant to the inquiries about the Minister for Finance Ministers decided on 23 April that it should be made available to the Royal Commission. This decision was made one week after the Prime Minister first became aware of  Senator Withers  ' phone call. In that week the Prime Minister was in Japan. To suggest in these circumstances that there had been a cover-up is clearly nonsense. The fact now is that the Royal Commission has found that  Senator Withers  acted with impropriety not because of what he did but because of the purpose with which he did it. That is the finding from which there is no escape. Many people who discovered after the event that they had some wisdom about the matter are now asking why we were not sensitive enough at the time to recognise the significance of  Senator Withers'  action. As I have indicated recently, I did not see any great significance in the electorate name from the point of view of my party. As the  chairman  of my party in Queensland,  Mr Sparkes,  said to the Royal Commission, while it was possible the party might have stood a candidate in the electorate such a decision was improbable. He pointed out that there would have been some reaction at the electorate level from people wanting the party to contest the seat but that our normal understanding is not to oppose ministerial colleagues. 
In summary, the following points should be made: The Government set up a Royal Commission to investigate serious allegations about an electoral redistribution as it related to the electorate of McPherson. This was seen by the Government as the most satisfactory way of dealing with this matter. A royal commission provided for an examination at the highest level. As soon as it was established the royal commission was advised of  Senator Withers'  contact with the Chief Electoral Officer and of the message that was conveyed to the distribution commissioners as a result of that contact. There was no evasion or cover-up on the part of the Government. The terms of reference of the Royal Commission were widened twice to ensure that relevant matters could be examined and findings made. As we know, the most important findings were that there was no breach of the law or impropriety in regard to the redistribution in Queensland in 1977 involving the Minister for Finance, the distribution commissioners or the Chief Electoral Officer. But the Royal Commission also found that an action of  Senator Withers  constituted impropriety. Those were the findings, and the Government accepted them. 
What then was the Government to do? The Prime Minister could not flinch from the resolution of the issue. There was no room for expediency. The principle was clear cut. The Prime Minister and the Government had either to accept the findings of the Royal Commission and act as such acceptance demanded or to walk away from the high principles of government which the Prime Minister has steadfastly demanded and achieved. All of us on this side of the House are saddened by the consequences which had to flow from acceptance of the Royal Commission's findings, but there can be no doubt whatever that the Government's decision is in the best interests of the good government of Australia. I believe that the Australian people accepted the decision because it was the right decision. Above all else the people of this country want to see integrity in their leaders. They want to have confidence in their Prime Minister and their Government. Any decision other than that taken by the Government quite rightly would have created doubts about the integrity of the Government. 
I believe that the statement made by the Prime Minister today and the decisions and actions taken by the Government clear up this matter once and for all and that there should be no doubts at all in the minds of the Australian public, although I know that we will never convince some people in this House. If the Leader of the Opposition wishes to continue to raise this matter day after day he will show his gross ignorance and futility. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. I have received  Mr Bonnett  's final Report of his inquiry into the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Scheme. 
The Report raises a series of inherently complex technical and policy issues arising from fundamental changes made to the actuarial basis of the scheme and to the contributions and benefits arrangements since its commencement in 1 948. 
The Report is under active consideration and an announcement of the Government's intentions will be made when the present inquiries are completed. 
Commonwealth land in Werriwa Division  (Question No.  668) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) As the honourable member would know, it is not the Government's practice to comment on what has, or has not, been the subject of Cabinet discussions. (2)I refer the honourable member to the answer to question number 78, which appeared in  Hansard,  1 1 April 1978, page 1408. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
I have had no discussions with Queensland State Ministers on these matters, but my department contacted the Queensland Mines Department on 29 March 1977 seeking information about reports published that day concerning the granting of exploration rights over the Oakey Creek area in the Bowen Basin in Queensland. Apparently due to a misunderstanding, the then Treasurer indicated in Parliament on 31 March 1977 that he understood I had discussed the matter with the Queensland Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The iron ore expansion programs included in the honourable member's list have already commenced; namely, the expansions by Hamersley Iron, Mt Newman and Robe River. 
Plans for the development of two bauxite/alumina projects listed- Alcoa (Wagerup) and Alwest (Worsley)- are advanced although firm dates for the commencement of development have not been announced. 
The development of the North West Shelf gas fields is presently the subject of an extensive feasibility study. Should a decision to proceed be taken, after completion of the study, development is likely to commence in the 1979 to 1980 period. 
With regard to Yeelirrie, subject to the necessary Government approvals, Western Mining Corporation contemplate construction commencing about 1981. 
For other projects listed, many of which are still the subject of exploration, no firm information is available as to an estimated date of development. The timing of the development of these projects will depend on, among other things, recovery in world markets. 
Estimates of the investment involved in the projects that have commenced are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Government was persuaded by the weight of scientific evidence placed before it, that the technology exists for the safe management and ultimate disposal of highly radioactive waste. This view is also held by the International Atomic Energy Agency which states that 'the technology for handling them (i.e. high level wastes) is developed, the difficulty is in deciding which of several methods should be used, on a commercial basis '. I suggest that if the honourable member wishes to discuss scientific evidence in detail he communicate directly with the Atomic Energy Commission. 
Details of the status of technology and management of high level waste arising from the spent nuclear fuel are contained in  Atomic Energy in Australia,  Vol. 20, No. 3, pp 8- 13, July 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It appears that your question may have been prompted by a rumour that McDonalds had indicated their support for the countercyclical bill proposed by  Senator Bentsen,  which would reduce imports at times of high production in the United States. The origin of this rumour appears to be a brochure recently published by McDonalds which states that they have always maintained a policy of using only domestic beef in their outlets. At no point in the brochure is anything said for or against imports. 
Pursuant to section 41 of the Export Development Grants Act 1974 I present the report of the Export Development Grants Board for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
I would like to reply to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and speak to the amendments he has moved. I accept that these amendments have been brought forward in good faith to improve the legislation. However, I believe that they are unnecessary because the Bill has been drafted to meet certain requirements. The amendment to clause 7 seeks to enable the Corporation to act as a principal or agent in the buying or selling of goods overseas but not so as to compete with Australian organisations. That is not acceptable to the Government. The Government believes that it is not tight enough to guarantee that there will not be unfair .competition with existing trading organisations in Australia. I suppose one might think that this is a rather rigid attitude to take but it is an attitude which was formed following the legislation that the Labor Government brought down when it was in office and wanted to establish an overseas trading corporation whose activities would have conflicted greatly with those of many of our export and trading organisations. That legislation threw great fear into the minds of those organisations that they were going to be supplanted by a national organisation. 
In discussing this legislation with industry representatives- it is Government policy to discuss legislation with industries which might be involved or affected- they were adamant that there be no latitude for activities under this legislation to be expanded to the point where, by subterfuge, this Corporation could be used as a trading organisation. Therefore we have kept the legislation relatively tight. I cannot accept this amendment because it would open up the legislation in a manner that we would not like to see. We do not believe that there ought to be any doubts left in people's minds about the creation of another body like the one proposed by the Labor Government which threw great fears into the commercial sector of the Australian economy. 
In its second amendment the Opposition is suggesting that the board should have a broader or more balanced representation than is proposed. The Opposition considers a balanced board to be one having an equal number of public servants and people from the private sector. In looking at the structure of the board we felt that three Government representatives could adequately provide the expertise and knowledge necessary and that it was really from the private sector that we need the most expertise because then a wide range of commercial interests could be covered. As the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  mentioned there will be banking interests represented. Also there will be architects, consultants, engineers, construction companies and supply companies represented. All these groups have a vested interest in having some representation on the Board so that their points of view may be registered and acted upon. 
The honourable member mentioned that on the board there perhaps should be representatives from the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. I do not deny that, I think there is probably good reason for considering representation from the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation because it has a very good performance record in overseas contracts and no doubt has developed much expertise. I assure the honourable gentleman that when looking for the personnel to be on the board I hope I will be able to look at some names submitted by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. However, I think the board, as envisaged in this Bill, is well balanced and equipped to enter into commercial competition for overseas projects. That is what we are basically looking for- a board which has a great deal of knowledge and experience in these sorts of operations. As most of the projects that we envisage Australian companies being involved in will come from the private sector, I think it is only right that the private sector should have majority representation on the board. I therefore cannot accept the amendments. I suppose if we looked at all the different areas that could be represented on such a board we probably would have a board of 20 people. We all know that that would be cumbersome and not in the best interests of an efficient, close-working organisation. 
The last amendment which the honourable gentleman moved provides that no director shall be involved in the consideration of or shall vote upon any matter in which he has a direct or indirect interest. I have no quarrel with the intent of this amendment but I believe that the Bill already covers this situation adequately. The conflict of interest by directors is handled by clause 18 sub-clause (3). This provision was put in specifically so that any director who does have a vested interest would not be able to use his position on the board to further his own ends or those of his company. I consider that the existing provisions adequately cover the situation. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) Yes. In my statement to the Parliament on 8 June 1978 I outlined the basis of Australia 's offer on industrial tariffs. 
No. Trade-offs play no part in Australia's approach to the Multilateral Trade Negotiations. We are taking part in international trade negotiations on trade liberalisation in which we seek to gain concessions which, overall, will benefit Australia and in respect of which we will be required to make a reciprocating contribution. In such negotiations there can be no question of bargaining one industry against another but rather the aim is to reach, overall, a mutually beneficial outcome in negotiations with trading partners. 
No. 
-Australia has built up a significant chilled meat trade with Japan. Some 25,000 tonnes of this specialty line went to Japan last year, and it is probably the only market for this type of beef. We have been advised that the Government of Japan has recently introduced a new scheme for imported chilled beef. It is doing away with the one touch system and putting more authority with the Livestock Industry Promotion Corporation. I believe it is doing that so that the LIPC can earn more revenue for itself. But we are fearful that it could result in some limitations on the amount of chilled meat going to Japan. I have had discussions in regard to this with Japanese Ministers, particularly  Mr Yushiba,  the Minister for External Economic Affairs, and have stressed the importance of Australia's maintaining its chilled meat market. I hope that these comments and requests made to the Japanese will ensure that we will not be deprived of a market that we have developed. 
For some considerable time negotiations have been going on between the iron ore producers and the Japanese steel mills relating to the renewal of certain of their contracts. Because of the depressed state of the Japanese steel industry- the lower tonnages being taken and the demands to reduce the price- those negotiations have been conducted under the most difficult circumstances. In fact, I think one can clearly say that it is a buyers' rather than a sellers' market. The reason the negotiations have been protracted is that the companies have been struggling to get the best possible price. I have been in conference with some of these companies, demanding that they obtain the best price. The final prices of which they informed me were prices which I did not consider to be fair and reasonable, and I expressed this point of view to the Japanese steel industry and to the Japanese Government. But the negotiations did drag on for a considerable time and in the end I was requested- pleaded with by the iron ore companies and indeed by the Western Australian Government- to have the matter finalised so that they would know exactly where they stood in relation to the future. I suppose that one could take the point of view of not agreeing to the contracts, but I doubt very much whether that would be in the best interests of Australia, particularly in the present oversupply situation for iron ore. It could possibly mean diverting contracts to Brazil rather than to Australia. But I want to make it quite clear that I was not satisfied, nor am I happy, about the price arrangements that were agreed to. 
The motion before the Parliament is a pathetic motion. It demonstrates the complete incompetence and the futility of the Opposition and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  Today an attempt has been made to try to dent the high standing and integrity of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  That attempt has failed miserably. No. new evidence whatsoever has been brought up. It has been an exercise in tedious repetition of speeches that we heard last week and of reports in the newspapers. This is a desperate effort by the Leader of the Opposition to try to reinstate himself in the eyes of the public after what has been a rather disastrous week for him. 
Those honourable members who listened to the electronic media last weekend must have been utterly bored with the hysteria of the Leader of the Opposition in saying that there was a major political crisis, that the Prime Minister's integrity was under challenge, that the Prime Minister had been misleading the Parliament, that this week he was going to bring down the Prime Minister and that the Government was at risk. This was repeated ad nauseum. But what happened? We came here on Tuesday expecting a censure motion to be moved. Nothing of that sort came forward. A few insipid sorts of questions were asked, the same sorts of questions as the Press had been writing about over the weekend. The day went by. On Wednesday no censure motion was moved. Today, the last day of sitting before the Parliament will be in recess for two weeks, a censure motion has been moved. The Opposition realised the desperate situation it was in and that it would be made to look a fool in the eyes of the electorate if it did not move such a motion. So it came forward with this motion in an attempt to justify the hysteria of its leader during the week. 
What a week it has been for the Leader of the Opposition. We heard his reply to the Budget. Goodness me! The Prime Minister exposed just how inane the Leader of the Opposition is when he is trying to put forward an alternative proposal for running this country. The Leader of" the Opposition's alternative proposal was a collapse, an utter failure. Of course, after the news reports of his disgraceful behaviour in Sydney where he tried to incite members of the public to go out and to misbehave- they certainly did so- the Australian people reacted. They realised that there is not a man in the Opposition who is an alternative Prime Minister. So in desperation the Leader of the Opposition has come forward today with a motion of no confidence in the Prime Minister. This debate has been a failure as far as the Opposition is concerned. The Prime Minister's standing today and his integrity are higher than ever because the allegations have been proved false. The Australian people have had time to examine, to analyse and to realise that he is a man of great standing. That will be demonstrated time and time again. I know that it is something that the Opposition finds very hard to understand. 
Let us look at what has happened during this debate today. The Leader of the Opposition came forward with his motion. Really, with due regard to him, the other two speakers from the Opposition were far more preferable to listen to. The Leader of the Opposition really did not have his heart in it. He was battling up hill. He realised that he had to do something after his week of failure. So he came forward with this motion. There are probably half a dozen honourable members in the ranks of the Australian Labor Party who could have done better than he did. Certainly the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  put on a better performance. I found him more interesting to listen to. No doubt the members of the media will say that the Leader of the Opposition certainly was not what they were hoping he would be after all the publicity they had given him during the week. 
I must confess that I do have a certain amount of sympathy for the Leader of the Opposition in this regard. He served his ministerial apprenticeship between 1972 and 1975. He grew up as a member of a government which was surrounded by the continuous smell of scandal. He was a Minister in a government whose stock in trade was deception, a government whose Ministers one by one were sacked for dishonesty or for misleading the Parliament. The Leader of the Opposition was a member of a government which had little regard for standards, ethics or integrity. So it is little wonder that he has a suspicion of other people. He has been a Minister in such a government that it is very hard for him to believe that there are people who live and work by high standards, as members of this Government have done. Because of his experience in government he cannot believe that we now have a Prime Minister of integrity, a Prime Minister who demands from his ministerial colleagues the highest of standards. 
I think it is fair to say that a comment made in an article in the  Australian  this week had a lot more truth to it and was a lot more significant than the author probably realised. The report stated that the Prime Minister claimed that he was concerned about breaching the confidentiality of ministerial discussions. It also, stated that this was unlikely to cut any ice at all with the Prime Minister's political opponents. Of course it does not matter what we say on this issue as it will not cut any ice with Opposition members. 
They are just going to continue to repeat their accusations. Their philosophy is that if they do enough character assassination and keep repeating their allegations for long enough something will ultimately stick. That seems to be the philosophy of the present Leader of the Opposition, who is conducting a personal vendetta campaign. He feels that the only way in which he can make any ground with the Australian electorate is by prying into people's personal affairs. Let him try to do that. Let him follow that course. 
We saw how the Australian public reacted in the last general election when the private affairs of the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  were brought to the attention of the Australian public. Frightful allegations were made against him, but what was the result? The Australian people, for the second time, returned this Government with an overwhelming majority and turned their backs on the Opposition, which they did not feel was worthy of any consideration at all. While the Opposition continues this course of action that is the way it will be treated by decent Australians. Millions and millions of decent Australians- the majority of the Australian people- want to see this Government get on with the job of running the country, of trying to overcome some of the enormous problems we face, rather than see this penny-pinching attitude of the Opposition of splitting straws and bringing forward the issues it has brought forward. Goodness me, there were issues for debate in its day! They were issues which could really crumble great pillars. But today what is the Opposition trying to do? It is trying to undermine by sniping away continuously. It has failed and it has failed dismally. During the week we saw another personal attack emanating. We heard the Leader of the Opposition turn to the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  and say: 'You're the next in. We're going to get you'. Somebody else reinforced those remarks. I think I should note in passing that it is quite obvious that the Leader of the Opposition has private and confidential information concerning an inquiry into the affairs of the Leader of the House that has been carried out by the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission. That inquiry has been carried out by  Mr Finnane,  who is a prominent and leading member of the Australian Labor Party. I think that the fact that such a man is appointed immediately raises the question: How genuine is this inquiry? 
It is certainly quite obvious that the Leader of the Opposition has been put on notice that here are grounds for yet another personal attack on a leading member of this Government. This indicates the style of the Labor Party. It seems to me that the Opposition's first plan is to attack the person and not to worry about policies and principles. Opposition members think that if they attack and denigrate people they have much more chance of succeeding. Serious allegations were made regarding the redistribution of boundaries in Queensland. After serious consideration of this matter the Prime Minister decided that the best way of handling and resolving it was to appoint a royal commission. There can be no higher authority in this country than a royal commission. There was no cover up. Any information that the Government felt it could give before that royal commission was given immediately. When there was a need to expand the hearings of that royal commission, when allegations were made regarding uranium share dealings, they were expanded. When it was necessary to expand the terms of reference of the Royal Commission to incorporate anybody who might have been involved in the matter, that was done. How can anyone make the allegation- an attack on this Government- that we have tried to cover up or that there has been a conspiracy? What a lot of rot. 
If one looks at the newspaper reports of this week one will find that the Prime Minister very reluctantly had brought forward what had happened in private conversations between Ministers. Heaven forbid if this is going to be a practice of government. How can governments act in the best interests of this nation unless Ministers are able to put all their points of view about people and about situations. Goodness me, the Opposition is virtually asking us what we are thinking about; and if we are thinking about something we are committing a major breach of parliamentary rules. The Prime Minister, however, realising that the issue had grown to this magnitude, did answer the challenge. If honourable members opposite like to read the  Age  or the  Australian Financial Review  they will find that those newspapers said that the Prime Minister had completely and absolutely absolved himself of any charges made. Yet these people opposite have the audacity to try to resurrect this issue time and time again. I think I can speak on behalf of the members of this Parliament when I say that we are bored. I am sure that the Australian people are utterly and completely bored with what has been going on- this pinpricking attitude of the Opposition. 
The Government of which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  was a member left many questions unanswered. The Opposition talks about us not answering questions. I can remember the way we worked day after day, month after month, trying to prise out of the Labor Government why  Senator Murphy  carried out the raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. That question has not yet been answered for the Australian people. What was the basis for the raid? There were many other questions raised. We were never told the details of the loan scandal affair. That was a matter of great principle. The Australian nation was being sold out to people of dubious character who were prepared to lend not a few million dollars but thousands of millions of dollars so that the Labor Government could carry out its nationalisation program for industries in this country. Yet these questions were never answered. Of course, we had the sacking of Clyde Cameron. Even Clyde Cameron cannot tell us why he was sacked. Goodness me; it was an horrific period. Honourable members might recall the Iraqi breakfast money affair. That undoubtedly would be the greatest political scandal of this country- indeed, of any country. A political party was prepared to sell itself out to some overseas power, some foreign power. 
Goodness me, do not let anybody say they entertain the thought that this Opposition is an alternative government of Australia. To come in here the way Opposition members do and try to ferret out every line and every sentence of a royal commission inquiry, to rely on newspaper reports and innuendoes, to try to say that the integrity of this Government is not sound, and to try to make out that there is a conspiracy is absolute futility. What this whole exercise has demonstrated today is that the Opposition is not competent to be the alternative government of this country. This matter has been resolved, and it has been resolved clearly, fairly and honestly. I believe it has been accepted by the Australian people. 
It is about time the Opposition now got on with the job which it is expected to do as an opposition- that is to provide analytical criticism of the Government's economic policies and performances and to put up alternatives. The Opposition seems to be running away from those issues. Either it does not have the competence to deal with them or it does not want to do that. The Opposition would rather keep ferreting out these personal issues. Well, it can do so. The Australian people will judge it accordingly. But if the Opposition thinks that it will get any discontent or division within the ranks of the Government it will be completely dissatisfied. Honourable members opposite will sit as shadow Ministers fighting shadows for years and years. That is all this exercise has been- a shadowing exercise. Honourable members opposite have been chasing suspicions in their own twisted minds. That is the sort of government they operated. We do not have that sort of government running Australia today. The Opposition's exercise today has failed. The Australian people will have no time for honourable members opposite while they continue this course of action. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is: 
and (2) While there is currently no commercial production of synthetic opal in Australia, I understand that synthetic opal is being imported into Australia and processed here. It is difficult to determine the exact level of this trade because imports of synthetic opals are not separately recorded in Australian statistics. The total value of imports of all uncut and unmounted synthetic gemstones in 1976-77 was $340,000 and in the eleven months to May 1978, $366,000. 
Yes. I have been aware of the problems that production of artificial opal could cause the natural opal industry. 
In a recent inquiry into the gemstone industry, which was part of a wider reference on 'Jewellery and Other Precious Metal Ware', the Industries Assistance Commission heard evidence from miners and gem merchants in regard to synthetic opals. In its draft report the Commission concluded that the evidence showed that synthetic opal was still only a potential threat and will not have substantial market acceptability until faults such as cracking are eliminated. The final report of the Commission in connection with this inquiry has been received and is under consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)I have not established or continued any advisory or consultative committees which include members of parliament. 
-The latest information we have is that the United States House of Representatives is about to vote on what is known as the Poage Bill, which would restrict future exports of beef to the United States. This legislation is based on a counter-cyclical concept which would restrict Australia's exports when the cattle numbers in the United States are high. It is a severely restrictive piece of legislation so far as the President's authority is concerned. At the moment the  President  has authority to liberalise imports if he sees fit, that is, when demand is high. However, this will cut across that authority. The United States Senate has already approved the Bentsen Bill, which is slightly different in nature. Should the Poage Bill be accepted there would have to be a meeting between the two Houses- the House of Representatives and the Senate- to decide on legislation that is acceptable to both Houses. 
The Government has been very concerned about this counter-cyclical legislation for some time. We made representations to Vice-President Mondale when he was out here and only the week before last I sent personal letters to the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Agriculture and the Special Trade Representative,  Mr Strauss,  expressing our great concern about this sort of legislation. Indeed, we believe that if this legislation is introduced it will cut across the multilateral trade negotiations which have been going on at Geneva, where we have been trying to get reciprocity for any trading concessions that we may be giving to the United States. It is in the area of beef and certain other agricultural commodities that we will be looking for certain balancing items. Should the United States move in this direction it would be going counter to what we have been aiming to achieve. The Minister for Special Trade Representations has been in Washington and has spoken with leading Senators and Congressmen about this matter. All told, the Government has acted in every way possible. We have been working closely with the Meat and Livestock Corporation to see that its attorneys in Washington are fully briefed and giving advice to and lobbying the various congressmen. If the legislation goes through, all I can say is that it will be very disappointing as far as Australia is concerned and we will continue to do all we can to see that it is further liberalised. 
-The 121/2 per cent duty that is now applied, whether in relation to import licences or tariff quotas, is in no way in conflict with our obligations under GATT, nor have there been any formal protests regarding our action. Although I have noted some newspaper comment, and no doubt there may have been some inquiries regarding it, it does not in any way breach our obligations under GATT. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following are details of financial transactions between the Commonwealth and Mary Kathleen Uranium Limited (MKU): 
Under the terms of the underwriting agreement dated 4 October 1974, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission acquired 30,764,142 shares in MKU. Calls for 10 cents and 5 cents were paid during the 1973-76 financial year. The value of the shares acquired, net of the underwriting commission received, was $7,482,665; 
in June and August 1977 the Commonwealth reimbursed MKU for interest payable to the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority totalling $269,64 1 ; 
on 3 March 1977 the Commonwealth made a loan of $ 1.8m to MKU (repaid on 19 December 1977 together with interest of $ 165,033); 
on 19 December 1 977 the Commonwealth made a loan of $9m to MKU (interest is payable on the loan from 1 January 1979); 
in February 1978 the Commonwealth purchased uranium from MKU, valued at $1,997,048 (this uranium was resold to the company for an equal amount). 
Under the secrecy provisions of the relevant taxation Acts the Commissioner of Taxation and his officers are prohibited from disclosing to any person, except those specifically designated, and except in the performance of their official duties, any information respecting the affairs of a person, disclosed or obtained under the provisions of those Acts. 
With regard to lease payments, royalties, and other net revenues, not referred to in ( 1 ), these are the responsibility of the relevant State. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) At the NAFTA Joint Miniterial Meeting held in Canberra on 18 April 1978, the Minister for Industry and Commerce and I drew to the attention of our New Zealand counterparts the representations recently received from Australian cheese manufacturers and industry associations in connection with significantly increased imports of cheese from New Zealand in recent months, particularly Edam, Gouda and Colby. It was agreed that the matter be referred to the appropriate authorities for consultation. Since then discussions have been taking place between Australian and New Zealand officials and between representatives of the Australian Dairy Corporation and the New Zealand Dairy Board. 
In the past I have received representations from the Australian cheese industry claiming that the NAFTA Cheddar cheese quota has been avoided by the device of giving cheddar cheese some other name. The definitions for cheese in the State Pure Food Acts are designed to ensure that labelled cheeses meet certain standards. Most States require that cheese labelled as cheddar must contain a minimum fat (dry mass) content of SO per cent and a maximum moisture content of 58 per cent. However, very similar standards are set for a wide range of other cheeses, e.g. Cheshire, Cheedam, Colby, Derby, Dunlop, Gloucester, Lancashire and Monterey. Accordingly, these definitions are not sufficiently precise to be used as a means of distinguishing between cheese varieties for the purpose of administering the cheddar cheese quota. The question of formulating a more precise definition of cheddar cheese for this purpose is under examination by the Department of Primary Industry. 
-The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) A survey was conducted by the Department of Trade and Resources in 1977 on the market prospects for the export of breeding and slaughter cattle. The survey covered a wide range of countries. 
The results of the survey were published in the Department's Overseas Market Report series as OMR 972. Copies of this report have been made available to interested Australian companies and exporters. I have arranged for a copy of the report to be passed to the honourable member. 
Following the isolation and identification of a bluetongue virus in insects in Australia in 1 977 a number of countries have imposed bans or restrictions on the importation of ruminants from Australia. 
The presence of Ephemeral Fever and Infectious Bovine Rhinotracheitis in our cattle populations has also resulted in restrictions being imposed by some countries which are considered to be free from these diseases. There has been some union opposition to unrestricted live cattle exports, but there has not been any disruption to shipments of five cattle in recent years. Such exports have increased over the last three years. 
Because of the bluetongue situation in Australia, the following countries have total bans imposed on the importation of ruminants from Australia: UK, Ireland, USSR, Bulgaria, Romania, German Democratic Republic, Canada, Argentina, Republic of Korea, People's Republic of China, New Zealand, Fiji and Western Samoa. Other countries such as Hong Kong, Indonesia, Kuwait and the Philippines will not import ruminants from areas, in some cases referred to as the bluetongue control area, and others as above the I8S parallel. 
Japan, Malaysia, Iran and Taiwan will only import animals subject to compliance with certain veterinary requirements. Malaysia also has imposed a ban on the importation of breeding cattle from above the 1 8S parallel. 
Ephemeral fever extends across the northern parts of Australia and down the east coast. On infrequent occasions this has been as far south as the Victorian border. The southern most border of infection varies from year to year. South American countries and certain islands of the Pacific have imposed rather rigid health import requirements in relation to this disease which are difficult to meet. Similar difficulties exist in the export of live cattle to Japan, Republic of Korea and some South American countries due to the presence of Bovine Rhinotracheitis in Australia. This disease is widespread throughout Australia and many cattle will give a positive test to the disease. Clinical disease is rare and the disease poses few problems in our cattle population. 
The statistics for exports of breeding cattle and cattle other than breeding ( mostly for slaughter) are: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am aware of various trade missions from State Governments to the Middle East and elsewhere seeking to obtain markets for Australian meat. It is a matter of concern to me that more missions are arranged without consultation with my Department and are representing sectional interests in the various States rather than the industry as a whole. At a meeting in Canberra on 4 May 1978 officers of my department had discussions with representatives of the State Governments on the question of co-ordination of Commonwealth and State Governments trade promotion activities. 
When requested, my Department provides background briefings in Australia for such missions, and Trade Commissioners assist with on-the-spot briefings and with contacts for the Missions. I understood that the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation also provides briefings on request. 
Visits overseas by trade missions sponsored by the various State Governments can cause confusion in some countries which are uncertain of the status of such missions in relation to official Australian Government trade missions. I am hopeful that, following the abovementioned discussions held in Canberra on 4 May 1 978, difficulties that have arisen in this respect in the past will be diminished. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Since my statement to Parliament of 1 June 1978 the Australian Atomic Energy Commission has had discussions with utilities in the United Kingdom, Finland, Japan and the United States. 
and (4) None. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Departmental submissions on such matters are of course confidential. I can say, however, that Ministers had requested and received for their consideration submissions which canvassed a wide range  or  options on the courses we might pursue in the MTN. The decision on an industrial tariff formula offer was made only after detailed and careful consideration of these submissions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
(a) At the time this answer was prepared my Department had received no formal proposal seeking approval for the export of alumina produced at the proposed Alwest refinery. 
(b) I understand that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development has directed an environmental impact statement on the Worsley project. The Commonwealth's examination of the environmental aspects will proceed in conjunction with that of the Western Australian Government under the agreed arrangements on cooperation in environmental assessment made between the Commonwealth Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development and the Western Australian Minister for Conservation and Environment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See answer to (1). 
Yes; to the extent that implementation of any proposal for the development of a nuclear power station would be subjectto approvals required under relevant Commonwealth legislation, including legislation relating to imports. 
-During the past month a Chinese delegation known as 'Minmetals mission' has been in Australia. It is a mission that I invited to Australia to survey the situation regarding China's requirements for iron ore and other metals and minerals. Its members have had the opportunity of travelling around Australia, of visiting various mines and industries and of having consultations and negotiations with various industry people. I am not in a position to disclose the details of negotiations that have taken place at this stage, although I will do so as soon as they have been cleared by the Chinese authorities and the companies concerned. I can say that very substantial sales have been made to China. They certainly will be record sales as far as metals and minerals are concerned. This is very much in accord with the 
Government's desire to build up our trading relationship with the People's Republic of China. Since the new regime came to power a conscious effort has been made to seek technology and raw materials from other countries to help industrial development in China. I believe that Australia can play a very significant role in supplying China with a good deal of its raw materials. I want to say that the visit here has been a most successful one. 
-There is really no need for me to answer the honourable member's rather pedantic question. I answered exactly the same question from him when the House was last sitting. I said then that I was not happy with the contracts that had been signed and I explained why. I refer the honourable member to that answer. 
I noticed one comment which came from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition who said that Australia was not performing as it should in the Middle East and the countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations. I think that comment displayed absolute ignorance or was a bit of political prattling. Perhaps it is just sour grapes. Our performance in these areas is improving as a result of Government policies which are giving encouragement and incentives to people to go out and to explore these areas. Indeed, our policies are designed to give a thrust into the Middle East and the ASEAN countries. The value of trade with the Middle East has increased from $100m to $5 60m in the course of the last four years. Trade with the ASEAN countries has increased to $850m. This is one of the most rapidly growing areas of our trade. Australia now has 10 trading posts in the Middle East. Four years ago, we had only four trading posts. We are continuing to look around and to build up Australia's trading posts in this area so that we will have greater trade involvement. It is absolute nonsense for the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to talk in terms of Australia not being interested or aggressive in that area. 
Australia has the lion's share of the meat trade in the Middle East, especially in sheep meat and live sheep. If the honourable member is really concerned about this trade, he ought to be doing a little more work with the trade unions which probably are jeopardising this trade more than any other single factor. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition also castigated the Government for wanting to be interested and involved in the European Economic Community. We know that during the period that the Australian Labor Party was in office it wrote off the possibility of trade with the EEC. It had given up. The Labor Government was not even attempting to try to open up the EEC markets. This Government is determined to get greater access to the EEC, especially for our agricultural products. I believe that in the course of negotiations, and certainly as a result of some of my negotiations with the EEC, there are signs that we will get increased access to these markets during the rounds of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations. This Government, in comparison with the attitude displayed by the Opposition, is certainly far more aggressive and is giving hope to Australian industries which want to sell around the world. It is sheer nonsense for honourable members opposite to make the allegations that they have been making, accusing the Government of not promoting trade. Such allegations do not stand up against the facts. 
I am pleased to enter this Budget debate and to defend a Budget that we believe to be in the very best interests of this nation. What has become very obvious in the course of this debate is that the members of the Australian Labor Party shy away from economic discussions. They hate to be reminded of the disaster that they brought upon Australia during their period in office. Today they still gloss over the very serious consequences of inflation and the evils that it brought to our economy and to our social status. Ever since this Budget session commenced, we have noticed great concentration on personal attacks and on character assassination instead of on economic affairs. The Opposition has kept the media flooded with these sorts of matters. It almost seems to be a deliberate strategy to try to avoid making comment about economic measures. I have never known a Budget which contained some unpopular features to be less analytically looked at by an Opposition than is the case with this Budget. I think it indicates that the Labor Party just does not want to face up to or be reminded of its incompetence in economic management. 
This Budget marks a further advance along the road to recovery of the Australian economy which certainly reached a very serious state by the end of 1975. The 1978-79 Budget continues and consolidates the responsible policies which are gradually eradicating the damage that was done during Labor's term of office. In fact, the policies of those years have largely dictated the shape of this Budget. It is the damaging consequences of the Hayden and Crean Budgets that this Howard Budget, together with the Budgets of 1976 and 1977 and, I suspect, some Budgets yet to come, is designed to try to counteract and ultimately correct. Clearly, Australia's economic growth rate is too low and unemployment is too high. Inflation is central to the problems of insufficient growth and unemployment. This point is not understood by those people who say that this Budget does nothing to attack the problems of unemployment. We have been selective in some of the actions that we have taken in this Budget. For instance, the reduction in sales tax on motor cars was a deliberate attempt to stimulate Australia's biggest industry, the automobile industry. 
The whole purpose of this Budget is to achieve further progress towards re-establishing the economic climate which will create more growth and more jobs. The whole purpose of all the Government's economic policies is to rebuild Australia's economic strength so that there will be more jobs. The Budget reflects the Government's basic strategy, the whole of which is designed to create a situation in which the private sector's economic health is restored and its ability to provide employment is restored. Those people who attack the Budget for what they see as its failure to respond to the unemployment problem clearly do not understand what is required. The kind of response suggested by the Labor Party might achieve a temporary, superficial improvement in the employment situation, but it would make the basic problem worse and even harder to solve on a lasting and long term basis. 
Those who argue that we can accept higher inflation in order to reduce unemployment are deluding themselves. There is only one way to economic health and that is to get the rate of inflation down and at the same time return real wages to a more reasonable level. The past year has seen considerable progress in bringing down the rate of inflation. For the first time in eight years our inflation rate has come into line with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development average. In fact it is better than that. It is crucial that this progress continue. Under our policies it will continue. It is vital to our industries that it does and that their competitiveness at home and overseas is improved. 
The policies we have been obliged to adopt are not easy policies. There is a lot of Hayden and Crean damage to repair. In framing the Budget we realised that the difficult and unpopular decisions that were brought down in this Budget just had to be taken. There was no escape from it. Keeping the Budget deficit down is the only way in which to beat inflation. An increased Budget deficit would inevitably mean a rise in inflation. That would mean a reversal of the reduction in our inflation and, of course, our efforts to get down interest rates. In short, it would mean a return to the conditions thrust upon Australia by the Labor Party. 
The Opposition advocates the injection of money into the economy, claiming that this would help Australia. Such policies are a cheap way for governments to buy popularity, but they are a very costly way for the community in the end. Surely Australians know that large increases in government spending would mean increased inflation and unemployment and falling real incomes. Twice in the last three years the electorate has firmly rejected such a course of economic management, regarding it as being irresponsible. Spending restraints have been the keynote of the Government's policies. In spite of the need to cut back on spending, we have given careful thought in the Budget to the productive industries- our economic lifeblood and the source of economic strength upon which all Australians ultimately depend. 
Let us look at what has been done. Many people find it easy to ignore some of the actions the Government has taken in recent times. They say that this Budget does not provide enough. There are not enough goodies in it. Let us look at what has happened over the course of the last nine months. A convenient way might be to run through some of the points covered in the policy speech I delivered on behalf of my Party and the Government during the last election campaign. They are policies that have been implemented in the course of our being in office this year. We announced a new national water resources program. The legislation for this program has been passed and the State Premiers have been invited to make submissions on the projects. We undertook to reintroduce the fuel freight subsidy scheme which was abandoned by the Labor Party. Nobody in the Labor Party should ever open his mouth about the price of country fuel. That scheme has been reintroduced and it will cost about $40m this financial year. We announced a 5 -year program to upgrade the national railway network. A start is being made on that program. We said that in the life of this Parliament we would abolish probate duty. Duty on property passing to a spouse, child, grandchild, parent or grandparent was abolished from 21 November 1977. Legislation we brought in last April provides for all Federal estate duty to be abolished in relation to the estates of people who die after 1 July next year. The same arrangements apply to gift duty as to estate duty. 
We said that we would provide further help to the embattled beef industry- and help has been given. There have been better terms of carry-on finance; there has been money for the implementation of carcass classification; there has been consideration with the States of a better selling system; and there have been grants to producers under the incentives scheme totalling something like $100m. We have been out selling and negotiating to get better sales and better access to markets round the world. This is now starting to bring results, with better prices for the producers. We have increased the wool floor price. Over $17m has been provided in the Budget for dairy underwriting and further funds will be provided in the future. The Primary Industry Bank has been established after a long and complex period of negotiation. Under a Labor Government in 1975-76 local government received $80m. Under our Government in 1976-77 the figure was $ 140m. In 1977-78 it was $ 165m. The figure for local government this year is almost $180m. This is a measure which has been of immense help to local government to hold down rates. 
We undertook to introduce a new program of general decentralisation aid to supplement growth centre programs. The Budget contains $ 10.5m for this purpose. The new exports incentives scheme and the export market development grants, which have been greatly improved, together will provide some $ 100m to exporters of manufactured goods and many primary goods to encourage them to go out and sell on overseas markets. The benefits, of course, will go to those exporters showing extra sales- extra sales that Australia needs. In addition, provision has been made for expanding the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation. Funds have been provided for the Australia Overseas Projects Corporation which will enable a consortia of Australian firms to bid for major capital projects overseas. All of these things were promised and they are being done. 
We promised to help people who have to travel long distances to seek special medical care. A total of $5.2m has been provided in the Budget for this program. It will be of great benefit to people in remote areas and is something that has been required for many years. We promised to provide extra help this year for isolated children to enable them to receive an education. There is $ 14.6m in this Budget to help 20,000 children in isolated areas. Various improvements in the telephone services are being provided by 
Telecom, as promised by the Government, and we want to see more improvements. These are some of the things the Government has done in fulfilment of the promises it made before the last election. 
The thing worthy of note is not that we have honoured these promises- that is only to be expected- but that we have been able to do so within the very severe limits imposed upon us because of the financial difficulties we inherited from the Labor Party. In a period when great restraint has been necessary the Government, through good management and most careful attention to its responsibilities, has been able to provide very worthwhile and significant assistance to those areas where it has been most needed. 
Of course, the things just mentioned related only to specific areas and to matters brought forward at the last election. Since we have been in office we have instituted measures to bring in a new deal between the Commonwealth and the State governments. Our revenue sharing arrangements have given unprecedented generosity to the States. They have helped nearly all the States to balance their budgets, and have enabled them to hold down taxes. Indeed, some of the States have been able to give very considerable concessions. Our taxation reforms have been of immense importance. This year, against our wishes and our inclinations, unfortunately we have been forced to increase personal income tax. But even with that increase, taxpayers are much better off than they would have been if the notorious Hayden tax scales had still been in operation. 
Of course we have brought in the family allowance, a major innovation of tremendous benefit to Australian families. I know that mothers around this country will not forget it. Tax indexation is another major reform offering continuing relief to taxpayers. Investment, the lifeblood of industry and of employment, has been revived as a result of the Government's sound economic management and because of the investment allowance. These are just some of the initiatives we have been able to take in following the path of recovery- a difficult path but one to which we are firmly committed. But the most important thing of all, on which we have firmly fixed our sights and to which we have directed all our efforts, is the control of inflation and consequently of interest rates. These twin aims of the Budget and all our economic policies are absolutely of fundamental importance. Success in these objectives is vital if we are to restore Australia's economic strength. 
The Government has complete confidence in its economic policies and that confidence is firmly backed by Australian and overseas investors and international opinion. The Budget demonstrates the Government's determination to pursue the fight against inflation by keeping the deficit under control. This strategy is supported strongly by investors on the Australian stock exchange, subscribers to the most recent Commonwealth loan, financial opinion in Europe and by leading overseas Press opinion. There is real confidence because of the resolution displayed in the Budget that the rate of inflation in Australia and interest rates will continue to fall.  (Extension of time granted).  This will result in greater competitiveness for Australian industry, increased investment in the productive enterprises, renewed industrial and economic growth and more jobs. That is what getting inflation under control does. This is the only way that lasting economic strength can be achieved and permanent jobs provided. 
The lower interest rates which will follow reduced inflation will change the thinking of investors. People will realise that it is better to seek a return on their money by putting it into productive industries instead of looking for a return through higher interest rates in other areas. Once the fear of inflation and the need to protect savings against it are removed, money will be freed for useful purposes, employment generating purposes. There has been a lot of shallow reaction to the Budget but no one can question its two fundamental objectives- to get inflation down further and to get interest rates down to a realistic level. It is significant that one of Australia's leading primary producer representatives, a man who is not frightened to express his point of view,  Sir Samuel  Burston, has said that the Budget brought down last month was absolutely necessary in the present economic circumstances. 
It is typical that the Labor Party in its attitude to the Budget should ignore the fundamental requirement of business confidence. The Budget and its deficit are perhaps the key indicators to investors inside and outside Australia of the Government's attitude to fiscal and monetary prudence and the Government's determination to win through on inflation by sound, basic economic management. An expanding deficit would have signalled loudly and clearly that the Government had given up the fight against inflation and would have let interest rates rise. The economy would have been permitted to drift into further stagnation. This Budget is the right Budget for Australia at the right time. It is a 
Budget that puts first things first. It is a Budget that has been recognised around the world as maintaining a correct approach to Australia's problems. The Government has complete confidence in this Budget and in all its economic policies because it knows that what it is doing is absolutely right. 
If it takes patience and perseverence there will be no let-up in the resolution of the Government to follow that course and it will not be sidetracked by the nitpicking attitude of members of the Labor Party. If they want to continue their personal vendettas against people in trying to sidetrack from their responsibility for sound economic management, then let them do so. We will be quite proud to stand behind our Budget and our economic strategy because we know that in the long run this is the only course for Australia; it is the right course, it is the course to help all those people who are unemployed and who have been looking for jobs and who have been betrayed by the Labor Party. Labor demonstrated during its three years in office that it had no competence or ability whatsoever in economic management. 
I inform the House that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  left Australia yesterday to attend the South Pacific Forum in Niue. The are expected to return to Australia tomorrow. During their absence I am acting as Prime Minister and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is acting as Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  left Australia for Japan on 15 September for discussions on industrial relations and manpower issues. He is expected to return on 25 September, and during his absence the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  will act as Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. 
The Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  is also absent, leading Australia's delegation to the Commonwealth Finance Ministers Meeting in Montreal and the annual meeting of the Board of Governors of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank Group in Washington. He is expected to return on 3 October. During his absence the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  will act as Minister for Finance. 
-The answer to the honourable gentleman's question is a categorical no. I happen to have been present with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in discussions with  Mr Yunupingu  and  Mr 
Wilson from the Northern Land Council. There were no duress, threats or anything of that nature at that conference. It was very amicable and the Press reports that I have seen are nothing more than mischievous. 
I am aware that sugar from the European Economic Community is now being landed in Papua New Guinea. This has been a market principally for Australia's exports of sugar. Australia has sold approximately 20,000 tonnes of sugar a year to that market. However, during the last year the EEC has been penetrating that market with heavily subsidised sugar. The subsidy content on the sugar amounts to about $350 per tonne which is about three times the world price. The EEC has sold approximately 3,000 tonnes of sugar, taking about 15 per cent of the market. Australia has been complaining to the EEC about its subsidised export performances. I have made speeches on this matter and described the community's actions as nothing more than economic vandalism. The representations made by the Minister for Special Trade Representations and me have, to this point of dme, had little impact upon the Community's trading policies. 
This matter featured largely in the course of discussions during the Multilateral Trade Negotiations. It is Australia's strong wish- we are supported strongly by the United States of America- that there be an international code covering subsidised agricultural products. It is my aim to see that that is part of the ongoing negotiations of the MTN. 
However, in view of the seriousness of the situation for Australia's exports to Papua New Guinea, I have instructed officials of my Department to confer with officials of the Australian sugar industry to prepare formal notification to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade challenging the EEC on its behaviour in respect of Article 16 of the GATT to see whether we cannot take some positive action to stop this dumping. 
I am very pleased to react to the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition on television last night. 
I did not see it but I have heard reports on it The Leader of the Opposition said that he wanted to make the capitalist system work better. I must say that it is very pleasing to hear these sorts of remarks coming from the Opposition although one wonders how much substance or reality they have, particularly when one reads the  Nation Review  of only a week ago in which  Senator Gietzelt  is reported to have said: 
To suggest that we can manage the capitalist system better than those who own it, understand it, exploit and profit from it, is laughable. 
I think that really he is expressing the viewpoint of a large element of the Australian Labor Party. Also, that same senator earlier this year managed to get 29 members of the Labor Party to sign a document saying that the Party should explain its socialist objectives to the Australian people more clearly. What are we to believe about the Labor Party? Is the Leader of the Opposition really speaking on behalf of the Opposition or is he now trying to hoodwink, to softsoap, the Australian people by pretending that he believes in the private enterprise, capitalist system? 
All of us can remember only too well the disastrous effects of the Labor Party's socialist tendencies between 1973 and 1975, and I hope that we will never see them again. The fact that he made these sorts of remarks on television touched me almost as much as the other Australian Broadcasting Commission report that I heard this morning regarding the appearance of the Leader of the Opposition on  Monday Conference.  The only comment that the ABC could feature was that the Leader of the Opposition does not like the Prime Minister. In fact I was so concerned at this rather puerile comment on the ABC that I thought I had better send a telegram to the Prime Minister to tell him to come back immediately because the Leader of the Opposition does not like him. 
The latest published trade statistics available are for the year 1977. These indicate market shares as follows: 
-Regarding the development of the Ranger uranium mine, negotiations have been proceeding according to the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. This Act was formulated during the period of the Labor Government. It lays down a procedure to negotiate the terms and conditions for the development of mines in the Northern Territory. That Act does not allow for Aborigines to withhold consent for the development of uranium mines. It merely allows negotiations to proceed on the terms and conditions. If these terms and conditions are not negotiated then the Act provides for an arbitrator to be put in to determine the issue. I want to say to the House that these negotiations have proceeded in a proper manner. They have been proceeding since October of last year. A settlement has been reached by professional negotiators who have been handling the matter for the Commonwealth Government and for the Northern Land Council. The Northern Land Council, at its meeting last week, agreed to accept what its negotiator had accepted in the course of negotiations. I see no reason for disturbing that arrangement. 
Officials of my Department are meeting representatives of CSR Ltd today, that company being the body which sells sugar on behalf of the Australian industry. They are preparing formal notification to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade challenging the legality, under Article 16 of the GATT, of the export of sugar by the EEC. I mentioned to the House yesterday how incensed the Australian sugar industry and I are that it is now dumping sugar on the Papua New Guinea market with a subsidy content equivalent to about three times the world price. Since 1974 the EEC has been substantially increasing its exports of sugar. In 1974 it exported 360,000 tonnes of sugar with a subsidy content to the value of about $40m. This year it is exporting almost 4 million tonnes of sugar with a subsidy content equivalent to $700m. This is just outrageous and sugar producing countries around the world cannot sit back and allow the EEC to behave in such a manner, particularly when the sugar producing countries have all subscribed to the International Sugar Agreement which imposes certain disciplines on them to restrain their production and exports in order to try to get the world price of sugar increased. Yet the EEC behaves in a most delinquent manner in ignoring the objectives of this great international body and the developing countries around the world and continues to dump massive amounts of this highly subsidised sugar. We are taking this action which I know will have the support of other developing and sugar producing countries. I hope that it is not long before we can obtain a judgment from the GATT as to disciplining the EEC for this outrageous behaviour. 
I will not challenge the bona fides of the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  who has just spoken in the debate. I believe that he could be genuine in his concern for Aboriginal interests in the Northern Territory. But I challenge very greatly the bona fides of the Australian Labor Party in this whole issue of being concerned about the Aboriginal people. The Labor Party is obsessed with this uranium question. It will go to any length to try to stop uranium mining being developed in this country. Honourable members opposite will stir up the trade union movement, the academics and anybody else to try to frustrate the Government's desire to develop uranium in the interest of this nation and in die interests of people in other parts of the world who are working to proceed with the nuclear age. 
I discount completely the allegations that are being made that the Government is applying duress and pressure on the Aboriginal people and not having any consideration for their interests. In fact, I could accept the matter of public importance at it stands. It refers to: 
The methods used by the Government to impose its uranium policy on to Aboriginal communities of the Alligator Rivers Region. 
It is not stated what sort of methods are being used. I am prepared to say that the methods we have used are absolutely correct and completely honourable. There is nothing wrong with the wording of that matter of public importance. I would think that if the Opposition were greatly concerned, it would have clarified the methods used. But, of course, honourable members opposite do not say that. I want to say that the Government has acted in a way in which the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill was originally drafted and proposed to allow the Aborigines to negotiate on the terms and conditions. This matter is before the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory at the moment. Therefore I believe that in this debate today a great deal of care needs to be taken to see that we do not cut across matters that the Court may address itself to in the course of the next 24 hours. I do not know quite which courses the Court will take. But I want to limit my remarks and I do not want to make the situation of the Court any worse by referring to matters that might come within its jurisdiction. 
What we are talking about really is allowing the Ranger project to go ahead. When the ALP was in office it saw fit that Government should take 50 per cent interest in the Ranger project. The Labor Party believed in the development of this project. If honourable members look at the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act, they will see that it does not give the Aboriginals the right to stop mining or to withhold consent. What the Act does is enable them under section 44 to get into the negotiations, whichever project is involved, and to negotiate the terms and conditions for development. If, after a reasonable period, the negotiations fail or they do not succeed they are then referred to an arbitrator who makes his recommendations to the Government. The negotiations under section 44 cover matters relating to the environment, the restoration of the mining area, social concerns and the financial matters in respect of the forms of compensation and assistance in allowing reclamation to be carried out. In the course of these negotiations- although not precisely part of them but a part of the overall package- there were lengthy discussions relating to the National Park, the involvement of Aborigines in the National Park and an agreement with the Northern Land Council as to the administration of that park. When all of these matters are published, as they will be when the agreement is signed with the Northern Land Council, people will have an appreciation of the enormous amount of work that has proceeded during this year in getting to the stage where the Council has felt that it is satisfied with the terms and conditions of the agreement. 
The Government has determined that the negotiations will proceed on a fair and just basis, and I believe that that has happened with absolute propriety. There has been a very keen desire on the part of the Government that this matter should not go to an arbitrator. We wanted it to be settled in an amicable way. We have given assistance and we have responded wherever possible to questions and queries that the Land Council might have had. The Government has made funds available to the Council to carry out these negotiations. Can one say that that is pressure? Can one say that that is not co-operating to make the negotiations succeed? The Council was able to contract one of the most renowned international advisers and negotiators, a  Dr Stephen  Zorn from the United States, who has acted on behalf of many interests including American 
Indians and for developing countries in negotiating mining rights and leases. He has come to Australia and he has participated in those negotiations. The Australian Government representative as our negotiator was  Mr O  'Donovan from the Attorney-General's Department. I want to say that these negotiations were carried out on behalf of the two interests by highly skilled and professional people who were given authority to negotiate. The Aboriginal people had absolute confidence in  Dr Stephen  Zorn and in his participation in these negotiations. From what I know and from my experience I want to say that he was an extremely impressive and competent person. 
The negotiations commenced last October. That is when the opening rounds took place. It is true, as the honourable member for Capricornia says, that several months went by before there were any further negotiations, and there were good reasons for this. In following the procedures recommended by the Fox report, the Government had to bring down legislation and, as the honourable member would know, a package of legislation was brought into this House during the autumn sittings. That legislation was debated in the two Houses before there was agreement. In the course of reaching agreement it was necessary for the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and me to fly to Darwin to have consultations with the Northern Territory Administration and the Northern Land Council to ensure that matters were resolved, and they were resolved. That has been our whole approach. Whenever matters were brought up and it was felt that there was inadequate information the Government responded. During these months before the more active and official negotiations commenced a series of documents on environmental, conservation and social welfare matters was prepared. They were lengthy papers that had to stand up to the scrutiny of  Dr Stephen  Zorn who wanted answers on all of these various factors. Negotiations started in earnest in May this year. I am advised there were approximately seven or eight rounds of negotiations. Most of these negotiations took place in Darwin. I think that there might have been one or two elsewhere, but most of them took place in Darwin because we wanted to accommodate the interests of the Northern Land Council whose members felt it was better for them and it was in their interests to have the talks in Darwin. So the Australian Officials repeatedly went to Darwin to continue the talks. Is that pressure? Is that duress? Eventually an agreement was reached a few weeks ago. It might be of interest to the House to know what  Dr Stephen  Zorn said in a report that he gave to the Melbourne  Age  on Wednesday, 1 3 September which reads: 

 Dr Zorn yesterday agreed the Ranger deal did not pay royalties as high as those received by American indians but, in the long term, the Aborigines would catch up. 
On balance the Ranger deal is better than the Canadian indian deal, even though the royalties are lower', he said. 
My estimate is that the environmental provisions in the Ranger deal add at least five per cent to the cash offer. 
I'm not overjoyed about the environmental provisions, but it is better than we expected. "The agreement isn't too bad and in some areas it goes beyond anything which has been offered anywhere else . 
Are they the remarks of a man who is dissatisfied? Are those remarks an indication that the Government has not fulfilled its undertaking to the Aboriginal people? 
Listen to the sheer ignorance of that interjection by the honourable member for Capricornia. It is unbelievable. Who was the negotiator? Who was the man speaking on behalf of the Northern Land Council? Goodness me, who is the man most qualified to make competent remarks? None other than  Dr Stephen  Zorn. As far as I can make out there is so much humbug from the Labor Party on this question that it is unbelievable. The honourable member for Capricornia said that the Government had locked people into the contracts and that this was governing the situation. Who locked in the Government? The Whitlam Government fully committed itself to endorsing the contracts and said that they would be honoured. It even envisaged using the national interest provisions of the land rights legislation to make sure that they were honoured. Honourable members opposite should not try to tell me that when the Labor Party was in office it did not have views on developing uranium because I have here an extract from  Hansard of  1 6 October 1975 in which the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in introducing the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill said: 
There are certain matters relating to the Ranger uranium project which should be mentioned. No formal claim has yet been made to the Interim Land Commissioner by Aboriginal groups in respect of the Ranger land, but should such a claim be lodged, the procedures embodied in this Bill would of course be followed. It should be noted, however, that the Government has undertaken to honour existing approved export contracts- 5025 tonnes of uranium for Peko-EZ and Queensland Mines. International assurances have been provided by Ministers that Australia will meet the uranium requirements of our major trading partners, which could amount to a total of about 100,000 tonnes of uranium by 1990. Moreover, the very substantial increase in the national welfare which could be derived from development of the 
Ranger project could not lightly be overlooked. Should the Government feel obliged to  invoke  the national interest provisions in the Bill in view of these factors, discussions would be held with those affected. These discussions would include the matter of royalties. I should add that any decision to proceed with the development of the Ranger project will depend upon the Government's consideration of the findings of the Ranger uranium environmental inquiry. 
We have followed that course exactly. The Labor Party is not even prepared to back its own policies when it is in government. So I accept the honourable member's wording because the Government has acted in a manner which has been absolutely proper and correct. I do not see any reason why the Government should be embarrassed about the manner in which it has handled this whole affair. For the Opposition to attempt to censure the Government is absolute lunacy. 
-Contracts were entered into for the sale of 1 1,700 tonnes of uranium from the Peko-EZ Ranger mine, the Queensland Mines Ltd operations at Nabarlek and Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd. These contracts are to extend to 1986 and their purpose is to supply uranium for electric power generation in Japan, West Germany and the United States. These contracts have been backed up both by the Whitlam Administration and by this Government. In order to honour these contracts we have been using stockpiles that the Commonwealth Government held. These stockpiles and what is available from Mary Kathleen are not sufficient to honour these contracts. Therefore, new mines will have to be brought into production, those mines being Ranger, Nabarlek and so on. 
The Whitlam Government foreshadowed that the national interest provisions of its Aboriginal Land Rights Bill would be invoked to see that these contracts were honoured. It also gave assurances that Australia would supply 100,000 tonnes of uranium by 1990. 1 think it is terribly important that Australia's reputation is in no way jeopardised by our not being able to honour these contracts. Certainly, we might be delayed a little in being able to fulfil these contracts. We might have to rely on other means to find some interim arrangements, but it is necessary for new mines to come into production and I think it is a pity that people like the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Reid have to keep making statements that these contracts will not be honoured or, rather, to say that no new production should be brought in which, virtually, is saying that the contracts will not be honoured. This is doing great damage to Australia's reputation. It is causing uncertainties. If they want to be in opposition, to create uncertainties in the minds of Australia's trading partners, if they want to denigrate Australia's trading reputation, let them accept the responsibility for that. This country depends very, very significantly, for its internal security and its economic welfare on international trade. Thus, uranium trade, or any other sort of trade, is important to this country. When they make these allegations that they are not concerned about Australia's reputation, all I can say is that they have no concern at all for the well-being of thousands of Australians who need these industries for jobs. 
I have listened with a great deal of interest to the remarks of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  If any allegation is to be made about insensitivity to Australia 's trading industries, that allegation must be levelled fairly and squarely at the honourable member for Blaxland, because he shows no recognition of the world trading situation in relation to raw materials for steel making. The situation today is vastly different from that which applied in 1973, 1974 and 1975. During those periods of high demand Australia had great opportunities open to it, but of course those opportunities were seriously jeopardised by the foolish policies of the Labor Administration. Today there is a recession. Of course, the Japanese steel mills are suffering. They are operating at a low capacity. Something like 70 per cent of their capacity is being utilised at the moment. There are large stockpiles in Japan. There is low profitability. 
However, from the way in which the honourable member talks one would think that these things do not matter. He talks as though we still have a commanding position and as though there is a seller's market. It is not a seller's market. It is vastly more a buyer's market today. Australia is a large supplier of iron ore and coal. We are supplying about 48 per cent of Japanese requirements. The Japanese market represents something like 80 per cent of our exports. So a very special trading relationship exists between 
Australia and Japan. Certainly a degree of mutual dependence- a high degree of dependence on Australia's part- exists in maintaining and establishing the best possible relationships. The attitude of the honourable member displays gross insensitivity to a difficult period through which both our industry and the Japanese industry are going. 
The Press statement put out two weeks ago by the honourable member clearly demonstrates that he does not care what remarks he makes about the Japanese. He referred to Japanese imperialism and said that we should be looking for markets elsewhere in Asia. The Government is looking at more markets in Asia, but when Japan takes 80 per cent of our exports of iron ore, the honourable member is playing on dangerous grounds if he thinks that Australia will automatically jeopardise its trading opportunity with Japan just because of some pet theories he might have. 
This bullying, hectoring attitude of the honourable member for Blaxland is typical of the policies of the Australian Labor Party when it was in office. When the Labor Party speaks of the imperialists on the one hand and the hill-billy miners on the other, it shows its old thrust of wanting to come through in the middle and take control of the iron ore and coal mining industries by nationalising them. That is its doctrinaire approach and that is the Une it is following. So it is capitalising on whatever circumstances it can, not for the best interests of Australia and the jobs of the workers who are dependent upon these industries, but just to promote its own doctrinaire philosophies. It wants to manage these industries. It wants to own the iron ore and the coal mining industries. To achieve its end it would use the federal export control powers, as it did while it was in office. We saw Labor's attitude demonstrated also by the overseas loan scandal. The Labor Government wanted to borrow money to buy out these industries and to take control of them. The Labor Party spokesman today tried to put forward ideas about how the Labor Party would look after the national interest, but honourable members opposite are not really concerned about that. They are looking after the Labor Party's policy and philosophies. 
The Government believes in commercial negotiations for the sale of Australia's produce. We believe that the entrepreneurial capacity of people in business is far more effective and efficient than government or bureaucratic enterprise. We believe that this is the way in which marketing ought to be carried out. This year we have seen certain changes in the practices of the Japanese steel mills which have caused great displeasure to the Government and to me. Our concern is being shared by industry. Our relationship with industry, be it the iron ore industry or the coal mining industry, is such that we can talk to people in industry and consult with them instead of shouting at them and directing them, as seems to be the Labor Party's attitude. 
The honourable member for Blaxland talked a lot about the worth of policies of the ALP when it was in office. Let us analyse how valuable those policies were. Not one new project got under way in this country while the Labor Party was in office. This was at a time when there was high world demand and when people wanted to come to Australia to invest and to develop. 
For the information of honourable members I present an agreement on trade and industrial and technical co-operation between the Government of Australia and the Government of the Polish People 's Republic. 
I shudder to think that any action I am taking at the moment is being interpreted as mimicking those policies which were so disastrous to Australia during the period when Labor was in office. At the moment I am consulting with the industry to decide how best Australia might approach the problems that it has faced this year in negotiating the sale of iron ore to Japan, and there have been problems. Whilst  Sir Charles  Court might say that these are big companies, that they are of world size and have the capacity to manage and look after themselves, the fact is that all companies are concerned and have found it impossible to cope with the Japanese this year.  Sir Charles  Court talks of commercial negotiations, but there have been no commercial negotiations this year. The Japanese have stated a price and that is it- the companies have to like it or lump it. I asked the companies to go back to the Japanese and try to renegotiate. They have not succeeded. Because those negotiations were becoming protracted and because I received pleas from the companies and  Sir Charles  Court that they be finalised, I did sign an agreement enabling the companies to carry on for the term of those contracts. Other contracts will have to be renegotiated towards the end of this year, but before these negotiations start I want to see the Australian industry working as a co-ordinated group. 
The producers at the moment are facing a single Japanese buyer; the Japanese steel mills have one representative buying on behalf of all of them. This gives them unusual strength in the negotiations. They have been able to divide the industry, to single the companies out and to create a situation in which the companies have felt compelled to acquiesce to their pressures. But I see no reason why the Japanese are prepared to pay more for ore from Brazil than for ore from Australia. This is why I have been dissatisfied and unhappy with the way negotiations have been carried on. 
The Prime Minister yesterday spoke very clearly about the success and strength that we have had in the primary industry area by having co-ordinated policies in the marketing of certain of our Australian rural products. Those orderly marketing arrangements have been introduced by agreement with the producers. I remember that, when I had the responsibility for trying to get the Australian wool industry bodies together to establish a wool marketing commission, there was violent opposition from the Japanese wool buyers and spinners and from interests within Australia which had a philosophical attachment to the view that everything must be done on a purely commercial basis, without any government support or influence whatsoever. I think the introduction of the wool marketing commission and the wool marketing corporation has shown the advantages that can be gained by sectors of an industry getting together. I believe that the same sort of advantages can be obtained for the iron ore producers and the coal mining industry, but it needs to be with their consent and understanding. At the moment these discussions are taking place, and if the outcome of them is that there should be a more co-ordinated approach or more government involvement I do not see the Government holding back if this is in the interests of Australia and the producers concerned. The negotiations that took place this year meant a very substantial reduction in income for the iron ore producers, and naturally for Australia. I would not like to see that situation continue. Therefore, there is a national responsibility on me to consult with the industry to see how the situation can best be handled. 
We have been involved deeply in conferences and discussions that have been taking place in Vienna over a period of time. I will not be in a position to report to this Parliament until a final report comes forward. When this report comes forward, the Government will consider what action needs to be taken. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(3)- 
In the Saskatchewan province of Canada an inquiry was recently set up under Justice Bayda to look into the prospects of developing what was known as the Cluff Lake deposit of uranium. This inquiry had terms of reference similar to those of the Fox inquiry in Australia. It was similar also to two other inquiries held in Britain which resulted in the Parker and Flowers reports. All of these inquiries which were conducted by judges found that the development of uranium ought to take place on a controlled basis and that the terms under which that development should take place should be much the same as the terms and conditions that were recommended by the Fox report. I think it is of interest to note that a number of major discoveries have been made in Saskatchewan, Canada. There is the Midwest Lake deposit, the size of which is about the same as that of the Ranger deposit. The inquiry which I mentioned will now enable the development of that deposit to go ahead. Key Lake deposit is another very substantial deposit. In addition, about 100 exploration companies are now operating in Saskatchewan in the search for uranium and many prospects are showing up. I think the significance of all of this is that the rest of the world is moving ahead fairly rapidly in developing uranium. I refer, of course, to those countries which have signs of its existence. Those people in Australia who say that we should not be developing uranium should get out of their Rip van Winkle state of mind and realise that we are living in a nuclear age, that any country which has uranium is developing it and that those countries which are looking for alternative sources of energy will have to rely heavily on nuclear power. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The honourable member's attention is drawn to the following statement made by my colleague, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, on 2 1 August 1978: 
The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development,  Mr Ray  Groom, said today that Pancontinental had given an assurance that no work had begun on the Arnhem Highway extension. 
Contrary to claims by the Opposition Spokesman for Urban and Regional Affairs,  Mr Tom  Uren, no activity beyond the permitted survey had been undertaken on the highway's proposed 25 kilometre extension. 

 Mr Groom said no decision had been taken on Pancontinental 's proposal. 
The Department has only today completed its examination of the final Environmental Impact Statement submitted by the Company,  Mr Groom  said. 
As required under the Environment Protection Administrative Procedures, he had sent his recommendations to the Minister for the Northern Territory,  Mr Evan  Adermann, with copies to other Ministers involved. 
I think that everybody in this House would be aware of the importance of maintaining a strong balance of payments situation. None of us can treat this matter lightly, because the welfare and well-being of this nation depend very much on sustaining a strong export performance. A major responsibility of my portfolio is to foster and encourage the development of more exports from Australia. Over the past year the Government has announced the upgrading of the market development grants scheme to encourage people to sell. We have also introduced the market expansion grants scheme, which is another means of giving incentive to people to find more markets. We have established the Overseas Project Development Corporation, which will give construction, consulting and other companies the chance to perform overseas. Of course, one of the important roles of my Department is to keep a close eye on the prices that are being obtained for commodities sold overseas to see that we receive a proper and appropriate price for commodities we might sell. 
Another area of importance in my Department is the encouragement of investment in resources, particularly resources which are export oriented. In developing those resources we want to see the maximum amount of processing carried on here so that we get the added value of Australian contribution to the upgrading of those materials. We have developed committees in conjunction with the States to see that this matter is thoroughly examined. Australia participates in a joint study group with Japan to see how more processing might be done here. Yesterday, in answer to a question, I mentioned that Canada was moving ahead with uranium and that it had a number of projects that would be developed. In fact I am told that within the next five to six years the exports of uranium from Canada will double. This means that Canada will be able to earn hundreds of millions of dollars worth of extra overseas currency. I only hope that it will not be too long before Australia will be able to start sharing some of the benefits from the development of the vast uranium deposits we have in this country. At a time of business stagnation or slackness and a high degree of unemployment it is unbelievable that people should be resisting the development of uranium, which can bring so many benefits to this country as well as to other countries around the world. If there were any doubts left about the uranium question I could understand people having qualms, but the uranium question has been subject to all types of examination not only in this country but also in other countries and everybody has accepted that under controlled and regulated circumstances uranium development should go ahead. I only hope that with Australia having such rich deposits of uranium the whole community might soon be able to gain the benefit of the development of this commodity. 
I am aware that from 1 July this year the European Economic Community introduced a canned fruit production subsidy. That subsidy affects mainly our exports of peaches which make up 40 per cent of our canned fruit sales to the EEC. The actual subsidy being offered is approximately $6 a carton, which represents about 40 per cent of the landed cost for us to put canned peaches into the EEC. In fact, for an EEC canner to be able to qualify for the subsidy he has to guarantee producers in the EEC $325 a tonne. That compares with $170 a tonne in Australia. So we can see the vast difference in the cost of production between Australia and the EEC and we can see the relative efficiency of the two countries. But with that huge subsidy the EEC is undercutting Australian sales and is making it difficult for us to maintain the share of the market which we have traditionally had for very many years. 
The subsidy is not the only matter causing us a great deal of concern. Import duties are imposed, averaging 24 per cent. An additional levy is made for the sugar content. There are licensing arrangements involved and there is the matter of import deposits. All of these matters make it more and more difficult for us to maintain our normal volume of trading in canned fruit to the EEC area. The Minister for Special Trade Representations will shortly be in Brussels making representations on our behalf. Although the arrangements have not been finalised, most probably I will be participating in further multilateral trade negotiations later this year. One of the areas of very great concern is the fact that we want to see at least the maintenance of our present trading position rather than any restrictions being placed on it. 
As far as Canada is concerned, that Government has received a report which suggests that it ought to eliminate the tariff preferences which exist between Australia and Canada. I have been vigorously trying to persuade the Canadians that the special tariff preference arrangements which exist between our two countries should be maintained. These arrangements are very important to Australia for the export of sugar and canned fruit. It is very important for Canada to be able to maintain market penetration into Australia of chemicals and manufactured goods. At the moment I am waiting for a final response on this matter. I am hoping that the Canadian Government will give consideration to maintaining the status quo which has existed for a number of years. 
A special industry committee has been formed on the MTN which has been operating for a number of years. It has been looking at all the relevant matters relating to the MTN round of negotiations. A complex series of matters has to be examined, not only the levels of tariff protection but also the various forms of non-tariff barriers that are operating, and the various codes that we are trying to introduce so as to put a little more order and discipline into international marketing arrangements. There have been certain levels of consultation. Letters have been sent out to industry people. If there is any particular group that wants to be better informed as to the overall situation I shall be happy to look at its requests and I shall have further examined the particular complaint that the honourable member makes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 3 March 1977 the Commonwealth made a short term loan of $1.8m to MKU which was repaid on 19 December 1977 together with interest of $165,033. On 19 December 1977 the Commonwealth made a long term loan of$9mtoMKU. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
No. 
It is the Government's policy that when we get round to mining uranium we should then study the possibility of upgrading uranium by enriching it in Australia. Of course the first step is to get the uranium mined and in sufficient quantities to make an enrichment operation viable. When the Australian Labor Party was in office it commenced discussions with the Japanese on an enrichment program. We have followed up those initiatives, and a joint study is now taking place with the Japanese on the possibility of enriching Australian uranium. There have also been discussion with EURODIF and EURENCO in Europe, which are the two main enrichment groupings of countries which have advanced technology in this area. But I think it is a bit early to come to any conclusions as to whether Australia might enter into enrichment and what form it should take. 
On the question of handling waste material, we accept that it is the responsibility of the power generating country to handle in an environmentally responsible manner the waste material that might be produced. It is not the intention or the desire of the Australian Government to have the waste material of other countries stored in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
$165,033. 
and (4) I am not at liberty to disclose details of financial arrangements between MKU and CRA other than to say that the loan arrangement in question was essentially on the same terms which applied to the $1.8m loan to MKU provided by the Commonwealth. 
No. 
Yes $269,641. 
Mine production of uranium oxide compiled from MKU annual reports and half yearly production reports is as follows: 1976-423 tonnes; 1977-420 tonnes; 1 January 1978 to 30 June 1978-269.8 tonnes. 
8 ) The prices that are received by a company in respect of its export sales are confidential between the company and the Government. 
I am very concerned and disappointed that the United States of America has not passed the necessary legislation to enable it to operate as a full member of the International Sugar Agreement. I am very disappointed because, for the first time, the United States played a major role in the negotiations which created the International Sugar Agreement last year and also was responsible for the idea of providing a stocks financing fund, which is an innovation towards establishing a stabilised marketing scheme. However, during the past 24 hours I have had officers of my Department in touch with officials in America. They are equally concerned that the legislation has not been passed. The American Administration is fully conscious of the serious implications of not passing this legislation, particularly the implications for the developing countries around the world. I believe that the American Administration is undertaking an urgent review to see what action might possibly be taken. 
I point out that failure of the United States to pass this legislation, whilst it has implications, does not stop the International Sugar Agreement from continuing. The only facet of the Agreement that will not be able to be fulfilled as soon as possible is the stocks financing fund. We hope that America will pass next year the legislation which will enable that section of the ISA to come into operation. I think it is fair to say that since countries have been exercising on themselves a discipline relating to exports of sugar the level of sugar prices has been above the level which would have been operating had there been no International Sugar Agreement. I think it would be wrong for sugar producing countries to panic because the Americans have not passed the relevant legislation. 
It is important that this Agreement should work. It is in the long term interest of the sugar producing countries around the world. I hope that all members of the ISA will hold firm and will keep pressure on the United States to see that it passes the legislation next year so that the Agreement can continue its effectiveness. Already the international market has been responding to the ISA and, unless the Americans' not passing the appropriate legislation has any major psychological effect, I do not see any detrimental consequences. So it is important that nobody breaks away and starts exporting ad lib because the Americans have not passed the legislation. 
-As the Prime Minister pointed out, we are extremely concerned about the counter-cyclical legislation, or the Poage Bill, that has recently been passed through Congress and we have been making representations to the Administration that the  President  exercise his veto or at least exercise a pocket veto, if not a complete veto, so that this law does not come into effect. The serious consequence of this is that it could have an effect on the industry when our cattle population builds up in the 1980s at the same time as the American cattle population is building up. We would then feel the full impact of the legislation. The other matter of concern is that the United States has been working closely with Australia in the Multilateral Trade Negotiations, where we are both pressing for greater liberalisation of trade, particularly in animal products. It would seem quite counter to the American attitude to go ahead and exercise this legislation. 
But to talk in terms of a trade war with the United States really is foolish. Obviously such remarks are very shallow. They gave me the impression of being a desperate attempt to get a headline rather than the result of any deep thought as to the consequences. 
The United States is an extremely important trading partner. As far as the beef industry is concerned we have been completely dependent upon the United States market for a number of years because it takes the great bulk of our exports of beef. This legislation will not have any serious effect on our exports in the immediate future. But to talk now in terms of a trade war when retaliation is possible would be to do ourselves harm at a time when we would not be suffering any damage from this legislation. The United States is an immensely powerful country. It is a big trading partner. It is our most important source of imports. To get into holts with the United States would have very serious repercussions. It is not the sort of attitude that we like to take to trade. If there are problems, let us sit down and try to talk them out. But to threaten a country the size of the United States, a country upon which we have been heavily dependent for the sale of our meat, would be just foolishness. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department does not own or operate computer facilities and there are no statutory authorities or business undertakings responsible to the Minister for Special Trade Representations. 
and (3) Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department of the Special Trade Representative does not own, operate or rent nor is it in the process of purchasing computer facilities. There are no statutory authorities or business undertakings under the control of the Minister for Special Trade Representations. 
to (7) Not applicable. 
-The Government is very much aware of the importance of the Chinese market. In fact, in the year just ended our sales to the People's Republic of China have doubled to $400m and it is now our fourth largest export market. The Chinese market, of course, has been a very important market for Australian wheat for many years, but a demand is now developing for minerals, other types of grains, manufactured goods and technology. This is in response to the new regime's policy of greater industrialisation and more international trade. Last week I was visited by the Minister for Foreign Trade,  Mr Li  Chiang. The week before that the Vice-Minister for Metallurgical Industry,  Mr Hsu,  visited me. Two other missions visited Australia in the two previous months, all reflecting the interest of China in forging closer links with Australia. 
In a week's time I will be leaving with a mission to visit China for a period of one week. With me I will be taking a very distinguished group of Australian business and industry leaders. This will give these people the opportunity of meeting their counterparts and also becoming involved in the new trading environment that is building up in China. It is to be noted that the people I am taking with me are representing not their own individual businesses but particular industry groups. 
The businessmen's group includes  Mr Espie, President  of the Australian Mining Industry Council, who will be leader of the group;  Sir James  McNeill,  Chairman  of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd;  Sir Samual  Burston,  President  of the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council; Professor Badger,  Chairman  of the Australian Science and Technology Council;  Mr Neville  Blyton,  President  of the Australia/China Business Co-operation Committee;  Mr Eather,  past  president  of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation and General  President  of the Queensland Grain Growers Association;  Mr Gough, Deputy Chairman  of the Trade Development Council;  Mr Harris, Chairman  of the Australian Sugar Board; and  Dr Hughes, Chairman  of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation. 
These people will be having discussions in China and assessing the future prospects for trade in commodities and technology and for developing closer economic ties between the two countries. I think that the standing of the businessmen who are coming with me indicates the importance that they and I attach to the mission that is going to China and reflects the concern that Australia and this Government are showing in developing the best trade links possible with a country where there is obviously immense potential under its new policies. 
I think anybody who read the newspaper reports of what occurred at the wharves in Brisbane yesterday would be appalled that there are elements in the community who think that they can determine what other people do with their produce. For them to use violence in an effort to intimidate and to stop those delivering the cattle to the wharves from doing so is a clear indication that the law should be called upon to defend the interests of people who own that property. 
On behalf of the Government, I welcome the opportunity to be able to sell more Australian livestock overseas. I believe that a combination of sales can be made, either in the form of killed and processed meat or in the form of livestock. All of this is to the benefit of the cattle industry in Australia. That industry has been through a gruelling period of about four or five years, and only now are there encouraging signs. I believe that if that industry is to last on a long term and secure basis it needs to develop both from the point of view of slaughtered stock and livestock. 
Opportunities exist throughout South East Asia for the development of the livestock industry. There have been immense benefits from the development of live sheep exports to the Middle East. That has been of immeasurable importance to the States of South Australia, Victoria and Western Australia. I would hate to think that some elements in the community intend to try to determine what our trading policy will be, simply for the purpose of looking after their own vested interests. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Australian Government does not accept the view that New Zealand is the most important and most reliable supplier of dairy products. Australia and New Zealand together dominate the Japanese market for imported dairy products, principally cheese, casein, chocolate crumb and skimmed milk powder, for both the edible and stock feed trades. Australia is the principal supplier of cheese and chocolate crumb to that market and has a long established reputation as a reliable supplier of dairy products to Japan. 
These views have been registered with the Japanese Government. Australia has, also, on a number of occasions in recent months, raised with the Japanese Government, at both Ministerial and official levels, matters related to the reported agreement with New Zealand. We have sought assurances from Japan that any arrangements entered into with New Zealand on dairy products are nondiscriminatory, so that Australia will have the opportunity to participate on an equal basis as a supplier of dairy products for Japan 's requirements. 
-The Australian Statistician has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The limited information on commercial insurance transactions, per se, included in the balance of payments current account debits is set out below. Country details are not yet available for 1977-78. The figures include net marine insurance (premiums less claims) which is part of the Balance of Payments Item 4- Transportation, and other net commercial insurance and re-insurance (premiums less claims) between resident insurance companies and unrelated companies overseas, part of Balance of Payments Item 7- Miscellaneous, when premiums exceed claims, and Item 10- Transfers when claims exceed premiums. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Trade and Resources was established on 20 December 1977. Expenditure on maternity leave has been as follows: (a) Not applicable, (b) $5,205, (c) $54,709 (to 26 May 1 978). 
The total hours of leave in respect of these employees was 14,674 hours. 
Employees who resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period numbered (a) Not applicable, (b) Nil, (c) 6. 
The Department's records do not show whether the maternity leave taken was in respect of first or subsequent children. 
-Certainly declining tonnages have been the reason for Hamersley Holdings' reduced profitability which was announced in the newspapers today. I think we all have to recognise that there is slackness in the world's steel making situation. That is particularly so in Japan. During my visit there earlier this year I acknowledged that inevitably there would be some cut-back in tonnages, although I did not want to see any reduction in the prices being paid for Australian iron ore. However, some negotiations have been carried out recently in regard to new contracts, but these contracts have been at prices in which I have been disappointed and which I considered to be unreasonable. It is for these reasons that I have been having consultations with the industry as to how the marketing arrangements might be reexamined and tightened up. Certainly the Government does not take the point of view that it should look merely at the profitability of an individual company, although we are concerned about having a healthy mining industry. 
I think the major interest is the national interest. We have to ensure not only that we secure maximum tonnages at prevailing market conditions but also that we receive the best possible price which is fair and reasonable so that we get the maximum export earnings to improve our balance of payments situation. Our balance of payments situation is not one that can be taken casually. It has to be looked at seriously in terms of our major industries, such as the iron ore industry, the coal industry and the bauxite industry, all of which make a major contribution to our balance of payments situation. It is for reasons of national interest that I am consulting with the companies to find out the best way of handling the situation to ensure that Australian mining interests can demand what I consider to be fair and reasonable market conditions in the prevailing world situation. 
It is well accepted in countries overseas that nuclear energy is cheaper, cleaner and safer than oil-fired or coal-fired power stations. It is very interesting to read the report of the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Commission which came out last month. It showed that the cost of producing nuclear power in the United Kingdom is half that of producing power from oil or coal and it is helping to give Britian a major advantage. It is little wonder that when  Dr Mabon,  the Labour Minister for Energy, was in Australia last year he said that he was absolutely astonished at the attitude of the 
Austraiian Labor Party and of trade unions in Australia in not supporting uranium development in this country. Members of the Australian Labor Party are like King Canute, thinking that they can hold back the tide. The rest of the world is going with the nuclear development. It is the best alternative to oil and coal for electric power generation. 
In the Press this morning I noticed a report about the Western Mining Corporation Ltd and its Roxby Downs prospect in South Australia, where it has discovered very promising signs for a copper and uranium mine. I think it is rather unfortunate that the discovery had to be in South Australia, where the Premier seems to be bound by ALP policies. It is impossible to mine the copper unless the uranium also is mined. If there is one State in which there is a desperate need to develop more resources to help relieve the unemployment situation and to give a little encouragement to industrial activity, it is South Australia. Yet the ALP policy seems to be to turn its back on the development of uranium, which probably offers more prospects for Australia than any other single item. 
by leave- In the second reading speech on this Bill on 6 June I stated that it was the Government's intention not to seek passage of the Bill at that time. In this way time would be available to interested parties to study the Bill in detail, and provide the Government with any comment on its provisions. Following consideration of comments from the export community and further study by departments, the Government intends to move a number of amendments to the Bill which are essentially of a technical nature. These amendments have been circulated to honourable members for study, but I will briefly mention their purpose. 
I turn to the first amendment. It is the intention under the prospective legislation that entitlement to grant is to rest with that person who negotiates an export sale with an overseas buyer. The amendment is to define clearly that person as the one who is legally responsible for the contract of sale with the overseas buyer. The second amendment dennes the date on which export is deemed to have occurred. The third amendment strengthens the definition of 'company' and partnership'. The fourth amendment is to ensure that grants are not paid unless there is a corresponding increase in exports. The fifth amendment provides that the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal will encompass this legislation on a date to be defined. The remaining amendments bring up to date the offences provisions of the prospective Act. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, may I raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Amendment Bill 1 978 and the motion to take note of the ministerial statement on export development initiatives as they are associated matters. At the conclusion of the debate separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills and on the motion to take note of the ministerial statement. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills and the ministerial statement to be discussed in this debate. 
I have noticed some comments by  Mr Jack  O Toole of the Australian Meat Industry Employees' Union in which he complained about the possibility of New Zealand getting into the processed meat trade in Middle East to the detriment of Australia. He suggests that, instead of sending live sheep to that market, we ought to be concentrating more on slaughtered meat. In case  Mr O  'Toole does not know, let me state that New Zealand has just sent its first export shipment of live stock to the Middle East, indicating a growing interest for New Zealand to establish itself in that market. Obviously, the customers in the Middle East are becoming a little concerned about the reliability of Australian supplies and are looking elsewhere. It seems that, if Australia creates any doubt at all, New Zealand will move in and take some of the market for live sheep. 
Australia has sent many missions to the Middle East. An official mission, which included three members of this particular union, went there early this year, to investigate the market circumstances. A dual requirement exists both for processed sheep meats and for live sheep. It ill behoves a person like  Mr O  Toole to say that there is not a market for live sheep. If he continues with that line of argument he will do great detriment to the Australian sheep industry. If there is any damage done to that industry, in the long term it will do damage to his meat workers. We need to develop this market and show that Australia is a reliable supplier. With the progress of time and as these countries develop more cold storage facilities and become more accustomed to processed meat, the live sheep trade might start to ease off. But at the moment there is a real requirement for live sheep. The trade has been a godsend to Australian sheep producers because it has enabled them to get good returns which they never previously had. If that market were to be cut off, it would have devastating effects on the live sheep export industry. Therefore, it is not correct to make the allegation that because New Zealand is sending some processed meat to the Middle East this is damaging Australian trade. The position is just the opposite. If Australia does not sell its live sheep, New Zealand will probably get in and take our place. 
by leave- Since 1973 successive governments have accepted the need for export controls on Australian minerals to ensure that the national interest is achieved. Since that time our mineral exports have increased threefold from $ 1,480m to $4,400m per annum. This is ready proof that overseas buyers are familiar with and can work within the framework of government export controls. The growth of exports clearly shows their confidence in the administration by this Government of that power. I emphasise 'this Government', because, although we use the same basic tool as the Labor Government used between 1973 and 1975, our method of operation has been and will continue to be significantly different. 
Ours is not a doctrinaire or heavy-handed approach. We do not send companies off to negotiate in a vacuum. We do not intend to return to a situation where companies, after months of negotiations, are told bluntly that contracts are not satisfactory and that they should go back and do better. When we came to office, we elected to use this tool as a monitoring device, intervening only when necessary. Interventions have been few, and only when absolutely necessary. The Government has a firm policy of leaving negotiations to the commercial parties involved. I have repeatedly stated that I would not use export control powers to interfere with normal commercial contracts unless the outcome is unreasonable and against the national interest. 
In accordance with this policy, the Government has endeavoured to give companies the maximum amount of freedom to carry on thencommercial negotiations. We believe that the entrepreneurial capacity of Australian companies should be used effectively and efficiently in the commercial marketing area. We do not wish to develop a greater degree of government involvement than is absolutely necessary to assist the companies and to ensure that our vital national interests are preserved. This has worked well, but as I have made clear in the House in recent weeks, we are facing a situation where buyers are imposing settlements on individual sellers which are less than could reasonably be expected in the market situation. The time has come to review the administration of our export control powers to meet this situation. 
I emphasise that we are facing the results of a fundamentally changed market situation. There is a situation of depressed demand and of serious overcapacity among the major suppliers of bulk minerals- particularly iron ore and coal- to the world's consumers. These commodities have no terminal market prices of the London Metal 
Exchange type such as exist for the non-ferrous metals. Negotiations on prices and tonnages are normally conducted between buyer and seller resulting in contracts which reflect the relative strength of the individual buyer and seller. The Australian Government's concern is that individual Australian companies face buyers who are co-ordinated or who have a high degree of consultation and who, as a result, can and do successfully play one seller off against another. The result is prices, terms, and conditions which do not reflect a fair and reasonable return. This is particularly so in the current state of world markets with Australian companies seemingly fighting each other for available tonnage often at the expense of fair and reasonable returns. Recent developments have indicated that buyers are taking full advantage of this situation. 
This is a most unsatisfactory situation and I have already expressed my concern at the price settlements that were agreed to this year for iron ore sales to the Japanese market. A situation can arise where contract conditions may be accepted by one company, albeit reluctantly, but can have grave implications if imposed on other exporters. This can lead to an overall result which is not in the national interest. Based on evidence in recent coal negotiations there is every reason to believe that unsatisfactory results could flow from the forthcoming coal negotiations which encompass approximately 80 per cent of our coal exports to Japan. 
It is necessary to appreciate that a coordinated buying approach is becoming more and more the technique applied to purchases of Australian minerals. This is a fact of international trade. What it means is that in these depressed market conditions we must be aware of, and have a response ready for, the inevitable pressures that will fall on individual Australian exporters. It is not this Government's wish to interfere with normal market forces. However, we are concerned about buying techniques which are distorting these market forces, and are designed to depress the prices received for these basic raw materials. 
The fundamental objective is to secure fair and reasonable prices for our exports of raw materials and the maximum tonnages that prevailing marketing conditions will allow. In a depressed market place tonnage and price movements can have a tremendous overall effect on our balance of payments and consequently the well-being of Australians as a whole. The importance of the issues is dramatically illustrated when one considers the contribution to our exports by minerals and metal products. Export income from minerals and metal products as a proportion of total export income has risen from 1 1 per cent in 1960 to 28 per cent in 1970 and to 39 per cent in 1977. Coal exports rose in value in 1977-78 to $ 1,465m, iron ore to $92 lm and alumina to $668m. Together, these commodities amount to nearly two-thirds of our mineral exports and 25 per cent of our total exports. 
It is important to realise that Australia has a pre-eminent place in world trade in these commodities. We are the largest exporter of iron ore and alumina and the third largest exporter of coal and bauxite. Settlements arrived at by Australian exporters inevitably have a major influence throughout the world. It follows that the prices we achieve are important not only to Australia but also to other exporting countries. Because of these wider implications, the Government, in discharging its responsibilities in respect of the preservation of the national interest, must bear in mind our very real international responsibilities as well as the interests of the Australian industry. 
I have been reviewing the Government's approach to the whole question of export controls and the machinery which should govern future exports of iron ore, coal, bauxite and alumina. The purpose of my statement is to explain to the House the decisions we have taken at this stage. There is no simple prescription for achieving our aims. Clearly it is essential that the Government has at all times the proper knowledge, oversight and control over the arrangements under which Australia's bulk commodities are exported. 
From our own analysis of the situation, reinforced by the views expressed in consultations with producers, it is clear that there is a fundamental need for more effective co-ordination of the marketing of Australian iron ore, coal, bauxite and alumina than has hitherto been achieved. The current export controls on raw materials and semi-processed minerals are administered under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations of the Customs Act. This will continue on the basis of the streamlined and simplified procedures which I introduced last year. However, from today, exporters who wish to enter into negotiations under new or existing contracts will be required to obtain specific approval before making any offers or responding to any offers or entering into any commitments. This will also apply in respect of negotiations already in progress. 
Consultation will take place between individual companies and officers of my Department. 
Against the background of continuing consultation with industry and the advice of my Department, I will determine the parameters within which a company or companies will be authorised to negotiate. Such parameters will include, as circumstances require it, pricing provisions, tonnage, duration or other usual provisions of commercial commodity contracts. If during the negotiations a company wishes to change the parameters it will be necessary to seek a variation to the approval. 
The machinery and procedures I have just outlined will, I believe, in practical terms make the existing system of administering export controls substantially more effective without resort to a marketing authority or legislation. All Australian exporters are worried to varying degrees by the trends that are evident in world markets. Following extensive Government-industry consultations and numerous discussions with individual executives in the coal, iron ore and bauxite-alumina industries, I believe that it is appropriate and necessary for action to be taken by the Government to achieve greater effectiveness of the existing system of export controls. The proposals I have outlined have the necessary flexibility to adapt to changing circumstances and particular industry needs. 
There will be continuing consultation with the industries involved. This will ensure that my Department is kept constantly in touch with the state of the market. This is a co-operative endeavour. Our companies will still undertake the commercial negotiations. Furthermore, the companies will know where they stand and they will know that, if they negotiate within the parameters approved by the Government, I shall approve the final contracts. These procedures are directed to ensure a continuing flow of information and exchange between the Government and exporters and to diminish the prospect of the Government continuing to be faced with the situation of having no choice other than to accept or reject a settlement. 
We are looking to these new procedures to reduce tensions and possible misunderstandings and to encourage the development of a cooperative interchange between the companies and the Government, a degree of co-operation and predictability that it would be unreasonable to expect individual competing exporting companies to generate. These aims are particularly important in the light of our position as a major world producer and exporter of bulk raw material commodities. We recognise, and I believe enjoy, a special relationship with our traditional customers. The ties are close and we are inextricably linked. 
The changes I am proposing are intended to preserve and nurture those ties. I hope they will lead to a reduction of tensions and facilitate the negotiating process not only for Australian sellers, but also for overseas buyers. This has been an important aspect in our considerations. I repeat that negotiation of contracts will be between the Australian commercial interests and the foreign buyers and I would not expect to be discussing directly with individual buyers matters which are the subject of particular commercial negotiations. Finally,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I would stress that the success of our endeavours does to a great extent depend upon the wholehearted co-operation of exporters with the Government. My discussions with exporters give me every confidence that this will be forthcoming. I present the following paper: 
Export policy for bulk raw materials- Ministerial Statement, 24 October 1978. 
Motion ( by  Mr McLeay)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
My visit to China and the discussions I had there added very substantially to the framework that had been established by the visits of  Mr Whitlam  in 1973, the present Prime Minister in 1976 and other Ministers in recent times. Apart from a lengthy discussion with Premier Hua, I had meetings with seven Ministers and my group of industry leaders had about 17 other meetings with ministries and departments. I am certain that, as a result of this, there will be a flurry of activity between representatives of industry in Australia and China to build up trade between our two countries. 
In a few weeks' time the Australia-China business co-operation committee will be leaving for a 17-day visit. Already we have managed to arrange many meetings for this group. Furthermore, I look forward to further visits to Australia of Chinese Ministers. Keng Piao, a Vice-Premier of China, is expected to come here in the early part of next year. While in China I also renewed the invitation of the Prime Minister to Premier Hua to visit Australia. There will be a follow-up of various missions between our two countries. A coal mission will be going to China shortly to discuss areas of technical co-operation. There will be further discussions on matters relating to iron ore and steel. In fact the whole area of technology will be further explored between the two countries and I have put in hand the possibility of some special technological and science agreement, particularly a technological agreement, with China to protect the patent rights of Australian manufacturers and suppliers should they enter arrangements with China. 
I also discussed areas of mineral exploration, mining development and methods, heavy railways, pons, bulk handling, agriculture, animal husbandry and dry land farming. In addition to this sort of technology, China needs consultancy services, specialised equipment and skilled technicians. She needs help in agricultural research and other kinds of research and design. She needs live cattle and sheep to improve her herds and her wool quality. Indeed, while I was in China I took up the question of the ban against Australian wool and livestock because of the outbreak of the blue tongue virus in Australia. The Chinese clearly did not understand what had happened in Australia. I believe that as a result of my discussions and those of  Sir Samuel  Burston with officials, and those of Professor Badger with scientific people, we have a chance of breaking through the ban which has been preventing about $20m of traditional wool trade with China. I have suggested that as an interim measure China might take wool from the sourthern parts of Australia until Chinese technicians can come here to survey the situation. Certainly a good exchange of information took place in that area. 
I am also hopeful that the Chinese, as a result of information I was able to give them on the International Sugar Agreement, will consider their position in that regard. The Chinese have informed me that they are interested in buying, amongst other things, more wheat, sugar, iron ore, steel and wool. They are particularly keen to get more livestock, such as sheep and cattle, from Australia to help with their grassland farming opportunities. In view of the $50m credit line that we have offered through the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation, officials of the Bank of China will be getting together with officials of EFIC to see how the credit line might be fulfilled. A long queue of countries is anxious to become involved with the modernisation of China. I am pleased that Australia is up there with those countries. I believe that my visit has laid solid groundwork as a result of which Australia can be involved and participate in the modernisation program that is under way. 
-the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2090  (Hansard,  17 October 1978, page 1972). 
Co-ordinative and Consultative Arrangements with the States (Question No. 2095) 
-Various Chinese Ministers and officials in discussions I have had with them referred to Australia's highly developed agriculture and to the way in which we have developed our pastoral regions. They asked whether we could be of help in providing them with technology in relation to dry land farming and animal husbandry. China has enormous grassland areas which are virtually undeveloped- there are approximately 200 million hectares of this sort of country- and its development offers opportunities for us. We had a machinery display in Peking at which there were 12 Australian exhibitors. They exhibited mainly machinery for this sort of operation. I am pleased to say that all the machinery was sold and we are hoping to get further orders from the display. I mentioned to the Chinese what the South Australian and Western Australian Governments have done in setting up pilot farms in places like Algeria and Libya where we have been able to apply our technology and use Australian made equipment. This was taken up with a good deal of interest. On Monday I mentioned this development opportunity to the Premier of South Australia who very keenly responded and said that South Australia would be willing to get involved in a pilot farm operation. I have just had word back from him that the South Australian Government would like to do it and will be sending its Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Chatterton,  to see me tomorrow to find out how South Australia might proceed. I hope that other Australian States will be able to provide help and get involved in these projects in China. I believe that it would be helpful. It builds up goodwill and offers us the opportunity in the future of providing livestock and machinery for this sort of development. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) None, (b) None, (c) None, (d) None. The Department does use time on computers owned or rented by other Departments or Authorities, namely: 
the Public Service Board, 
the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, 
CSIRO. 
to (7) Not applicable. Refer to answers given in respect of computers owned, operated or rented by: 
the Public Service Board, 
the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, 
CSIRO. 
Responses given by Ministers responsible for these Departments/Authorities include usage by the Department of Trade and Resources. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (3) Not applicable. The Department does not own or operate computers. The Department does make use of computers owned or operated by other Departments or Authorities, namely: 
the Public Service Board, 
the department of Business and Consumer Affairs, 
CSIRO. 
Responses given by Ministers responsible for these Departments/Authorities include details relating to the Department of Trade and Resources. 
Immigration under the Entrepreneur Policy  (Question No.  2284) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Recent contracts concluded between Australian iron ore producers and the People's Republic of China for the supply of iron ore to China were on an fob basis. Consequently, responsibility for the shipping arrangements lies with the People 's Republic of China. (1)See answer to ( 1 ). 
Australian Ambassador to Switzerland: Absences from Switzerland  (Question No. 2459) 
Because of the enthusiasm of the honourable member for Darling Downs in promoting this idea, I have heard of it. It is an idea that is emanating from Queensland, like so many new ideas do. Any idea which tends to promote Australia's trade and the export of its primary products, be they of an agricultural or a mining nature, certainly is deserving of encouragement. At the moment the Government is looking at a number of suggestions to celebrate Australia's bicentenary. The suggestions are under study. The idea suggested by the honourable member could possibly be looked at. I am not madly keen about the suggested name of Expo Primary Production'. It seems to have a connotation of concerning only agriculture, whereas other areas of primary production might be incorporated. Perhaps if the honourable member is keen to sell the idea he might consider another name. Then the idea could be put up to the Government for consideration among the items at which it is looking. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In a comprehensive statement to the House on 13 April, I announced that the Government had decided to take a number of export development initiatives to encourage Australian firms more actively to seek out and pursue export opportunities and to increase their export sales. One of these initiatives was the re-introduction of a twopronged system of export incentives. The Export Expansion Grants Act will provide export incentives grants based on increased export performance. I am now introducing this Bill to bring into effect certain measures aimed at improving the effectiveness of the export market development grants scheme and to extend the coverage of the scheme to encourage the development of certain services. These services include value-added services performed in Australia on foreign-owned items and certain travel and tourist services that are concerned with the encouragement of tourism to Australia. 
The export market development grants scheme was introduced in 1974 and is based on the same principles as the export market development allowance scheme which had been operating since 1961. The scheme aims to encourage Australian exporters to seek out and develop overseas markets for products, services, industrial property rights and know-how which are substantially of Australian origin. It provides financial incentives for eligible expenditure incurred on overseas market research and development, such as advertising, the costs of participating in overseas fairs and exhibitions, the costs incurred in travel overseas and the costs of bringing agents or buyers to Australia. The amendments to the Act contained in this Bill have been framed following consultations with the Trade Development Council, the Australian Manufacturing Council and other industry organisations and inputs from individuals and companies. The Government has also decided to accept recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission whose report on export incentives was received earlier this year. The amended Act will be effective from 1 July 1978 and will remain in force until 30 June 1982. I will now draw the attention of honourable members to the main changes that are being introduced. A single rate of grant of 70 per cent of eligible expenditure for all claimants and all classes of expenditure will be adopted in place of the present dual rates of 85 per cent and 60 per cent. This will simplify administration of the scheme and will have the net effect of increasing the benefits to claimants by an estimated amount of $500,000 a year. With the adoption of this single grant rate, the concept of 'new markets' will lapse. The ceiling on grants payable to a group of wholly-owned subsidiaries and their parent corporation will be removed, thereby allowing each separately incorporated subsidiary to receive a grant up to the absolute grant ceiling. The effects of this particular decision are estimated to result in an extra $2m flowing to exporters. 
In addition, the ' 10 per cent of eligible export earnings' requirement will be removed. This will result in the 'new claimant' status lapsing. An export earnings test will, however, be applied. After receiving grants for three years a claimant will be able to continue receiving grants only if he receives, or is entitled to receive, export earnings in excess of $25,000 in the particular grant year. In the case of earnings derived from eligible industrial property rights or know-how, a lesser amount of $10,000 has been determined. In the case of certain organisations which provide unbrella publicity for certain products but do not export in their own right, such as national commodity marketing boards, a dispensation from the export earnings requirement will be afforded. 
Under the present provisions of the Act, persons supplying certain services overseas, such as consultancy services to overseas projects, are eligible to claim grants. To clarify which services should be included initially under the amended 
Act, it has been decided to list those particular services by way of regulation. Essentially, they are services which involve consulting and construction and would include the following: Architectural; engineering; agricultural and forestry; economic evaluation; geological and geophysical; surveying; construction; urban and regional planning, and international transport services. 
Other amendments are provided in the Bill to remove anomalies and improve the administration of the scheme. For example, the Export Development Grants Board will be given a discretionary power to decide on the eligibility of permanent overseas sales representation by company directors. The Board will be increased by two members, meaning that it will consist of a  chairman  and four industry members. A system of appeal will be introduced to allow appeals to go to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. This provision will operate at a date to be proclaimed. The date of 28 February 1979 will be inserted in the Act as the closing date for receipt of claims under the existing provisions of the Act. The Bill provides for the scheme to be extended to cover value-added services performed on foreignowned goods imported and subsequently reexported. Examples of these kinds of services are repairs on foreign-owned ships or aircraft. It is estimated that the inclusion of these internal value-added services will provide benefits estimated at $ 1 m a year. 
In recognition of the importance of the travel and tourist industry as an earner of foreign exchange and its potential to increase employment opportunities, the Government has decided to extend the scheme to cover that industry. This is in line with the announcement I made on 13 April and follows consideration by the Government of a report prepared by relevant departments which examined the legislative and administrative issues involved. The measures contained in the Bill are along the lines suggested in discussions with representatives of the travel and tourist industry. These discussions covered a number of options aimed at providing incentives to as large an area of the industry as practicable but which, at the same time, would minimise the administrative burden that could be associated with a large number of potential claimants in this industry. For the purposes of the scheme, the travel and tourist industry providing services for overseas visitors to Australia would be defined under the following categories: Accommodation; passenger transport; tourist attractions; interpreter services; convention centres; tour guide services, and package tour operators. 
In order to contain the number of potential claimants to a manageable level, a minimum amount of $5,000 eligible expenditure, other than fares but including expenditure on government-sponsored tourist promotions, is to be incurred to establish eligibility under the scheme. However, expenditure incurred by claimants on government-sponsored promotions will be eligible without any minimum limit being imposed. Regional tourist associations carrying out promotional activities in governmentsponsored promotions would also be eligible for grants. There will be a review of the operation of these provisions of the scheme before the end of 1980 so that a decision can be made by the Government on the desirability and feasibility of introducing a suitable export performance test. 
The extension of the scheme to the travel and tourist industry is to operate as from 1 July 1978 with the first grants being payable in 1979-80. Consistent with the other export incentives, the new arrangements will run to 30 June 1982. This will provide the travel and tourist industry with a firm basis for forward planning. It is estimated that the extension of the scheme to the travel and tourist industry will benefit that industry by about $3.25m in relation to the first grant year. The total effects of all of the changes and additions to the scheme, as outlined in this speech, are expected to provide additional benefits amounting to some $7.25m in relation to the first grant year of operation. 
This Bill expands the degree and scope of the assistance now available to exporters under the export market development grants scheme while, at the same time, streamlining a good deal of the administrative procedures from both the claimant's point of view and that of the Export Development Grants Board. The Bill is an important element of the series of measures and actions taken by the Government in stimulating more effort in opening up and securing market opportunities overseas. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
The operation of the common agricultural policy of the EEC has been a matter of great concern to Australia ever since its introduction. It is progressively having a more and more severe impact. The high protection and the keeping out of products are leading to greater inefficiency of production. The policy means that greater subsidies are being paid. It means an accumulation of surplus stocks. It means the dumping of those surplus stocks on third markets round the world, interfering with traditional agricultural trade, and of course that is having its impact on Australia. At the MTN round of negotiations held in July I made those points as cogently as I possibly could to the EEC Ministers and I felt that we were making some impact there, with greater recognition of the detrimental effect those operations are having. 
Whilst in Britain following those discussions I also spoke with British Ministers and I was very pleased with the response I got. For the first time they were saying quite openly that there was a need for change in the common agricultural policy. I think that the attitude of the British Government has been highlighted in the last few days by a speech by Prime Minister Callaghan, who openly came out and attacked the common agricultural policy, saying that there must be changes in three areas. He said that the EEC's attitude to food imports should be more liberal, that the EEC should make better use of its export subsidies, and that the EEC should reconsider its policy of pushing up production and surpluses by annual increases in price supports. These comments by the British Prime Minister are most welcome and I hope that they are being listened to by the member countries of the EEC, because some of them are hell-bent on a course which must ultimately lead to disaster, not only for themselves but also for other countries. As far as Australia is concerned, it will be continuing its fight to get more liberal access to the EEC and we will be using our negotiating strength at the MTN to try to do so. 
I have listened intently to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  addressing himself to the matter of public importance before the House, namely: 
The Government's failure to debate the implications of the issues now before the Multilateral Trade Negotiations. 

 His address seemed to be a mixture of confusion of allegations about insufficient debate in the House, requests for more information and allegations of Government ineptitude. Certainly there was nothing in his speech about his own Party's policies or attitudes. In fact, one could say that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition took the opportunity just to sound off and to say something about international trade. 
However, I would join with him in one of his remarks and that is that the Multilateral Trade Negotiations are of extreme importance. They are negotiations which commenced with the Tokyo Round Declaration in 1972. It has taken all the time since to get to the critical negotiating position we are in at the moment It was hoped that finality would be reached in July. In Geneva a deadline was set for IS July. Unfortunately, the volume of work and the complications of the massive negotiations were such that it was not possible to complete them. However, progress was made to that stage. At the moment discussions are taking place in Geneva as to whether another round of concentrated negotiations will take place in an attempt to reach finality by 15 December. It is not clear whether these negotiations will take place. Differences of opinion between the United States and the countries of the European Economic Community, mainly relating to the failure of the United States Congress to pass a waiver on the countervailing duty question have to be resolved. Unless they can be resolved, these negotiations will be postponed until some time next year. But these negotiations are quite crucial to international trade. We believe that strenuous efforts must be made by all countries to try to liberalise trade as a further boost to stimulating international trade activity, which is desperately needed throughout the world today. 
This round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations is really the seventh in a huge series of negotiations since the Second World War. But these negotiations are by far the most significant because they cover not only the question of industrial tariffs but also a wide gambit of subjects relating to international codes, codes of trading behaviour and codes of commerce. They also cover questions of multilateral trade negotiations. In all these areas it takes a lot of discussion and negotiation for countries to be able to come to some resolution. 
The  Deputy Leader  of the Opposition made the allegation that we have treated the House with contempt because we have not given it more information. Let me remind the honourable member that in 1973, when his Government decided to join in the Multilateral Trade Negotiations, the responsible Minister then,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, who was then the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry, did nothing more than put out a Press statement, copy of which I have here. He did not even have the decency to make a statement in the Parliament. There was never any statement made in Parliament. There was never any debate on the matter during Labor's time in office. Earlier this year, before I went to Geneva in June, I made a comprehensive statement in this House detailing Australia's negotiating attitude, that we enter into the formula approach to the cutting of tariffs based on a 40 per cent across-the-board tariff cut to commence in 1 980 and be implemented over a period of eight years. This was in accordance with the approach that had been taken by most other countries, with the exception of New Zealand and South Africa. We took this approach because we wanted to show our bona fides, to show that we were genuine in these negotiations. We also wanted to make the maximum impact in trying to free international trade in agricultural commodities and to see that certain actions were taken against the behaviour particularly of the EEC, in relation to the subsidy on exports and the dumping of those exports on third markets around the world, which is completely disrupting international agricultural trade and having very serious consequences for some of Australia's agricultural trade. So the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was quite wrong when he made the allegation that we have been deficient. If we have been deficient, I would not like to try to put a description of the honourable member's Party when it was in government. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition talked in terms of more debate in Parliament on the negotiations. That is really a rather quaint notion. One has no negotiating position if one starts telling the public at large of that negotiating position, if one reveals ali one's cards. That applies to all countries. Massive negotiations are going on, on an item-by-item basis, in relation to the codes which I mentioned before, namely, the code on standards, the code on subsidies and countervailing, the code on government procurement, the code on safeguards, the code on customs valuation and the code on licensing measures. All countries have their own points of view and in the course of conferences they reveal what their negotiating stance is. We just cannot negotiate in public. No other country negotiates its position publicly. One states a point of view and perhaps one has to backtrack a little from it; but one does not come out and embarrass a government or those negotiating by stating what one 's attitudes are going to be. 
There are also joint disciplines on commodities agreements. Three major commodity agreements are involved- the wheat agreement, the meat agreement and the dairy products agreement. All of these are of vital concern. I have never known of any commodity agreement being brought into this House prior to the negotiations taking place and all the facts being laid on the table. It just cannot be done. It is naive to think that it can be done. Why should Australia do so when no other country does so? 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition seems to derive some joy from the fact that as yet we have not succeeded in our negotiations with the EEC to try to liberalise agricultural trade. The honourable member writes it off as if it does not matter; as if it is of no concern to Australia. Let me assure the honourable gentleman that we will continue our efforts to try to get some liberalisation of agricultural trade within the EEC. This morning, in answer to a question in this House, I mentioned the attitude of the British Labour Government about the Common Agricultural Policy.  Mr Callaghan,  the British Prime Minister, strongly attacked the operations of the Common Agricultural Policy.  Mr Callaghan  said that there should be more imports of food; their regulations should be liberalised; that something ought to be done about their export subsidies; that the European Economic Community should reconsider its price support policies. Is the Labor Party taking the attitude that this problem is too hard? Is it just going to run away from it? Is it going to betray all the farmers of this country who are being affected by these policies overseas? Is this what it is saying: That we should just ignore it, not worry about it, and that it is a difficult problem? Let me assure the Opposition that we have been having negotiations and discussions with the EEC. What was the EEC 's counter to that proposition? It was that the proper place to press this question was at the Multilateral Trade Negotiations. The Government is doing just that in Geneva at the moment. 
Some of the remarks by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition about the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  were quite unfair. It was nit picking criticism at its best and I dismiss it out of hand. This Parliament has been informed. Questions have been asked and out in the market place consultations have been taking place with industry. When the Labor Party was in office a special industry consultative group was set up and that group has been consistently meeting all sections of industry. A very large booklet has just been put out giving all the information about what is going on in the Multilateral Trade Negotiations. I am happy to send the honourable member a copy of it if he likes to be informed. It is available and my department is available to talk to him if he wishes. But to talk about the EEC not being significant!  Mr Callaghan  mentioned in his speech that export subsidies were costing the EEC 2,000m. Its total agricultural budget is now $A8,000m-that is, $60 per head for everybody living in the EEC. On top of that there are huge consumer prices, something in the order of two to three times that of the world price at the moment. It is just wrong and it cannot go on. Even  Mr Callaghan  said it cannot go on. 
What are we saying? We are not asking for a complete reform of the Common Agricultural Policy. We recognise that it is an inherent part of the whole operation of the EEC. But we do want some modification at the edges, a little more access for certain Australian products. I see no reason why they should be completely banned. At least we ought to be given some access. The EEC ought to start recognising the deleterious effects of its export subsidy programs. We want an international code that will cope with the situation and we are pressing very strenuously for it at the MTN. These are the sorts of things we are doing as a national government with a sense of responsibility for the people we represent. Those people happen to be Australian farmers. If their situation is well looked after there are repercussions on the rest of the Australian community because they are the biggest purchasing sector of it. 
Let us look at what is happening with some of the EEC export subsidy programs. This year it will be exporting 150,000 tonnes of beef and each of those tonnes of beef will be subject to an export subsidy of $1,000. There will be 500,000 tonnes of butter exported for which there will be an export subsidy of $2,000 per tonne. Two million tonnes of skim milk powder is being exported with a subsidy of $600 per tonne. Twelve million tonnes of wheat is being exported with an export subsidy of $1,000 a tonne. Three million tonnes of sugar is being exported and it will cost the EEC a total amount of $A800m. Yet the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition says that we do nothing about it. Let me assure him that we will continue our stance in seeing that there are modifications- and there will be modifications provided there is resolution on the part cf the Australian people. The Government is going to display it even though the Labor Party may want to walk away from it. We will continue to face up to any debates or discussions in this House but it is unreal to imagine that confidential information can be brought forward and revealed in public and to say that that is going to help our negotiating stance. We want to get the best negotiating position for all industriessecondary industry and primary industry- in the course of these negotiations and, at the same time, we want to be a responsible member at these international discussions and see that they succeed. I believe that our performance and record at these negotiations until now confirms what I have been saying. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The discussion is concluded. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of the Bill is to enable the Act to be amended so that a mining authority to be issued under section 41 of the Act for mining at Ranger affords the persons on whom the authority has been conferred security of tenure similar to that enjoyed by the holders of a mining lease under laws in force in the Northern Territory and most of the States while, at the same time, ensuring that it is subject to appropriate controls. On 25 August 1977 the Government announced its policy to develop the uranium ore deposits in the Ranger project area on the basis of the Memorandum of Understanding of October 1975, which provided for mining to be undertaken under the Atomic Energy Act by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, Peko Mines Ltd and the Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Ltd as joint venturers. In this regard honourable members will recall that in June this year the Atomic Energy Act was amended to authorise the participation of the Commission in the Ranger project for the purpose of ensuring the supply of uranium. The legally binding agreements to implement the Memorandum of Understanding are now being negotiated to establish the joint venture and thus enable an  authority ' to mine to be issued under section 41 of the Atomic Energy Act. The need for further amendments to the Act has been identified in the course of working out those legally binding agreements. 
Honourable members will appreciate that laws which normally govern mining operationsfor example, State and Northern Territory mining laws- contain provisions which provide the holder of a lease with security of tenure and make quite clear the circumstances under which leases may, for example, be cancelled or revoked, assigned or transferred, and the conditions under which leases may be renewed. The Ranger joint venturers have pointed out that section 4 1 of the Atomic Energy Act, as it presently stands, does not provide them with adequate security of tenure. While the Act was designed to allow mining, detailed provisions to cover mining on a commercial basis were never included. Consequently, the Act does not address these issues. Because of the decision to proceed with Ranger under the Act, amendments to deal with them have now become necessary. This does not indicate, however, that the Government has in mind using the Act for other mining projects. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said on 25 August 1977 that it should not be thought that the Commonwealth's participation in the Memorandum of Understanding would give Ranger advantage over other mining companies. The Government, of course, also believes that the holders of an authority under the Atomic Energy Act should not be disadvantaged in respect of such an important matter as security of tenure in comparison with prospective competitors. In order to take appropriate account of requirements for security of tenure and, in addition, the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act, the recent agreement with the Northern Land Council in respect of Ranger, and the Memorandum of Understanding, the resulting provisions in this Bill are somewhat involved. 
Before turning to the detailed clauses of the Bill it is appropriate to recall some of the provision of the 1975 Memorandum of Understanding, presented to Parliament on 29 October 1975 and incorporated in  Hansard on 27  October 1977, which are relevant to the matters covered in this Bill. One provision of the Memorandum requires that the initial authority for mining should be issued for 2 1 years; others provide that the Ranger project will be conducted as a commercial venture and continue in force during the economic life of the uranium ore deposits in the area. Another provision of the Memorandum requires that the Commonwealth contribute 72  Vi  per cent of the capital cost and be entitled to receive 50 per cent of the proceeds of sale; still another provision dealt with the circumstances under which the joint venturers would be able to assign their interest to other parties. 
The Government considers that it would be inappropriate for it to continue to contribute  72Vt  per cent of the capital cost of the Ranger project on a permanent basis, that is, after the initial 2 1-year rnining period, as might be thought to have been contemplated by the Memorandum. Consequently all costs of mining beyond 21 years at Ranger will be shared on a straight 50/50 basis, and provisions to this effect will be incorporated in the legal agreements now being negotiated between the Commonwealth and Peko-EZ. 
I tum now to the detailed provisions of the Bill. Honourable members will note that the Bill is to commence in two parts. All except the provisions dealing with renewal- clause 6- will commence on royal assent. It is the Government's intention that clause 6, which deals only with Ranger, will be proclaimed to commence at the same time as the agreements now being negotiated with Peko-EZ are executed. Clause 4 of the Bill makes it clear that an authority issued under section 41 of the Act continues in force for the period for which it was granted unless terminated earlier in accordance with its own provisions, or unless it is revoked under new provisions dealt with in clauses 5 and 6 of the Bill. By way of example, I draw the attention of honourable members to a provision of the proposed authority for Ranger which would lead to its termination if the Government varied a determination as to payments to be made to the Aboriginal Benefit Trust Account. This provision is included in details of the proposed authority contained in documents tabled by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in Parliament on 7 November when he disclosed details of the agreement reached with the Northern Land Council. 
Clause 5 will introduce two new sections into the Atomic Energy Act, namely, sections 4lA and 41b. The new section 41a will provide the basis on which an authority can be revoked or its conditions varied by the Minister. I draw the attention of honourable members to sub-section (3) of section 41a, which ensures that the Minister cannot revoke an authority upon application unless conditions and restrictions relating to rehabilitation of a mining area have been observed. This is consistent with the obligations the Government has undertaken in its agreement of 3 November with the Northern Land Council in respect of the Ranger project. Sub-section (8) is relevant in this regard. If a breach of a condition or restriction in the authority occurs, sub-section 
of section 4lA will empower the Minister to prohibit or suspend mining operations, as distinct from operations to rehabilitate the mining area, until the breach is remedied; but the Minister must first give the authority holder proper notice of the breach alleged and specify action required to be taken by the authority holder as provided in sub-section ( 5 ). 
The new section 41B expressly authorises assignment of an interest in an authority. It provides a proper framework within which assignments may be made and will enable those provisions of the Memorandum of Understanding that provide for assignment to be given effect. Sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 41 B will enable a person holding an interest in an authority to assign, with the consent of the Minister, the whole of an interest to a person not having an existing interest in the authority. Sub-sections (3) and (4) are designed to enable interests in an authority to be assigned as between parties engaged in a joint venture, each of which holds an existing interest in an authority. 
Clause 6 of the Bill will introduce into the Act a new section 41C. That section provides for the renewal of an authority granted in relation to the Ranger project area. The initial authority for Ranger is to be issued for 26 years and under that authority mining will cease after a mining period of 21 years unless the authority is earlier renewed or extended. Under sub-section ( 1 ) of the proposed new section 41C an application for renewal- only one renewal is provided for- must be lodged between four and six years before the end of the mining period. Sub-section (2) provides that the existing Northern Land Council agreement must be extended, or a new agreement under section 44 of the Land Rights Act entered into, before the entitlement to a new authority becomes effective. Sub-section (3) requires the relevant Minister to endeavour to obtain an extension to the Northern Land Council agreement or a new agreement with the Northern Land Council, and honourable members will note that he will have a period of three to five years in which to do so. I emphasise that the Bill does not empower the Minister to have resort to arbitration proceedings to secure extension or renewal of the Northern Land Council agreement during the currency of that agreement. The conditions and restrictions of the renewed authority are to be determined under sub-section (4) at the time of the renewal. 
I have explained the provisions of the Bill at some length in view of their complicated character and in view of the relevance of other legislation and agreements relating to the 
Ranger project. Honourable members will recognise the care the Government has taken to ensure, by this Bill, that mining at Ranger is able to be undertaken on a commercial basis and consistent with the Government's policy as is reflected in the agreement so recently entered into with the Northern Land Council. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government announced in Parliament on 25 August 1977 that the Ranger uranium project would proceed on the basis of the Memorandum of Understanding concluded on 28 October 1975 between the Whitlam Government and Peko Mines Limited and Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Limited. It was announced at the same time that the Government had accepted specific recommendations of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry relating to the operation of the Ranger mine. In this regard I would draw the honourable member's attention to page 27 of the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette No. G34 of 30 August 1977 notifying that on 22 August 1977 the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development had exempted from certain requirements of the Environment Protection Administrative Procedures the making of decisions by the Government on the mining of uranium in the Ranger project area. 
There are actions yet to be completed, including the submission and examination of a final environmental impact statement (in accordance with the requirements of the Environment Protection Administrative Procedures) on the development of the Nabarlek uranium deposit, before a decision can be taken by the Government on whether, and on what terms and conditions, mining of the Nabarlek deposit may take place. 
Pursuant to sections 20 and 26 of the Coal Industry Act 1946 I present the report of the Joint Coal Board for the year ended 30 June 1978, together with the financial accounts of the Board and the Auditor-General's report on those accounts. 
I would like to make a few comments in relation to the amendments moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. It is very late so I will try to be as brief as possible. But what I have already said to the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is that if some of these amendments were accepted tonight- I believe that some of them could be looked at and would be acceptable- it would mean reprinting the Bill. That would prevent us from being able to get it through the Senate by the time in which the Senate is expected to deal with it. It would be unfortunate if this Bill were not passed in both Houses so that it could become operative immediately. I think that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition recognises this problem and would not want to see the Bill held up. 
This Bill was introduced into the House on 15 November, and since then honourable members have had the opportunity to study its provisions. The amendments that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has moved are ones to which he has given serious consideration. As regards proposed new section 14 (3), I agree that there could be a need to have this particular provision clarified. It is not the intention to exclude a claimant who had exports of eligible industrial property rights and know-how in excess of $10,000, but who also had other export earnings, the combined total of which did not exceed $25,000. The Government recognises that an anomaly could exist and I undertake to have the provisions scrutinised with a view to introducing a suitable amendment during the next session of Parliament if it is confirmed that the current wording is deficient. 
The points raised in the other amendments are noted. However, I believe that the current provisions are adequate and will be interpreted by the Board in a reasonable manner. The amendment to section 13 of the principal Act concerns the case of the Board refusing to consider a claim if the claimant does not supply further information. This matter was raised by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins).  The amendment is designed to meet cases where the Board does not state specifically what information it requires. The Board is required to consider every claim duly made, but may refuse to consider it if the claimant does not supply further information. On past experience, the Board has acted in a reasonable manner and has set out what information it requires. In cases of doubt, an officer of the Board visits the firm to sight the relevant information. Of course, now if there is any dispute in respect of any claim, steps may be taken under the Administrative Appeals Tribunal provisions. We believe that the amendment to clause 13 has been handled adequately but, just in case there are any problems in the future, the Administrative Appeals Tribunal is now available to deal with them. 
The amendment to clause 10 seeks to institute a performance test for the tourist industry. Currently it is not practicable to devise a performance test for this industry because of lack of records of overseas tourist payments to individual establishments. However, the Government has announced that there will be a review of this question before the end of 1980. The Bill therefore provides for a rninimum expenditure test as set out in section 7 which states that a claimant must incur at least $5,000 expenditure, excluding air fare, to be eligible for the grant. The amendment in relation to clause 17 is concerned with the legal point of whether a person knew that he was making a false or misleading statement to the Board. Clause 17 is a standard provision drafted on the advice of the Attorney-General's Department. The Attorney-General's advice would be needed in this case. We believe that clause 1 7 is in the appropriate legal form. 
I hope that explains the situation to honourable members opposite. I know that their examination of this Bill has been directed to trying to make it work more satisfactorily. I recognise that fact. I am prepared to look at proposed new section 14(3) and, if it shows any anomalies, an amendment to it will be introduced next session. 
Amendments negatived. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Pursuant to section 88 of the Export Finance Insurance Corporation Act 1974 1 present the report of the operations of the Export Finance Insurance Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
-The statement put out by the Australian Mining Industry Council is basically consistent with and similar to a letter written to me which I received this week. It is a consistent attitude of the Australian Mining Industry Council that it believes in the free enterprise system, as I do, and that there ought to be the minimum of Government involvement in the operation of the sale of Australian minerals, as I believe. On this side of the House, we all remember only too well, and I know that the Austraiian rnining industry remembers only too well, the disruption, the lack of confidence and the confusion that can be caused when there is undue government interference. The days of 1972 to 1975 will not be forgotten. I am sure, however, that the Mining Industry Council recognises that the Commonwealth Government has national responsibilities and that the national interest must be attended to. However, AMIC does not seem to understand that the announced guidelines on the export controls are not trying to beat the market force nor are they attacking the single buyer practice of the Japanese. We are trying to support the negotiating position of Australian exporters to enable them, through a more co-ordinated approach, to deal fairly with such buyers. In the very difficult market circumstance of today, such support is required in the national interest. 
Last Friday I met all the representatives of the Australian coal rnining industry. All of them said that they were prepared to work under the guidelines. A few companies, basically overseas companies, stated a point of view that they did not want any controls operating on them- that has been a consistent attitude of those companies- but that they are prepared to give the guidelines a try. As I said, I do not believe, nor does the Government believe, that there should be undue interference or exercise of export controls. My Department is reviewing the whole operation of the use of export controls outside the areas that have already been announced, that is, coal, iron ore, bauxite and alumina. Shortly a report will come to Cabinet as to whether export controls ought to apply to other forms of ores or minerals. I hope to be in a position to make an announcement shortly. 
I would be very disappointed if the great bulk of the controls which are now operating could not be eliminated to enable industries to operate in free market circumstances. As I mentioned, pressures are being applied to some of our mining industries, particularly the coal mining industry at the moment. There is a need for that industry to work together in a co-ordinated way to see that it obtains the best and fairest return. In doing that it will be acting in the national interest. 
I thought I gave an indication that the first group of industry representatives I met- there is an urgent requirement for coal producers to come to some resolution- are of the overwhelming opinion that there needs to be be a co-ordinated approach to the selling of Australian coal and that everybody is prepared to work towards that end. The point that needs to be made loudly and clearly is that the national interest, has to be looked after and that there needs to be some government involvement in bringing together the various sections of industry. As I have pointed out, that can be done only by means of a direction from me to bring them together for the purpose of protecting the foreign companies from the United States anti-trust laws. That direction has been given. 
Certainly we have done very well in our dealings with the Japanese. We are pleased to work with the Japanese. Australia has a special relationship with Japan in relation to the sale of our minerals to that country. There is a mutual interdependence between our two countries. However, I think one would have to acknowledge that at the moment it is a buyer's market. Heavy pressures are being put on some of our exporters. When there is a single buyer it has the capacity to divide the industry in order to gain the best possible price. One recognises that fact and one should not complain about it. A real complaint can be made only if one does not take some measures to try to get the best out of those circumstances. That is what the Government is doing at the moment in producing guidelines. It is doing so merely to help in the negotiations. It is not trying to resist market forces but is trying at least to establish a co-ordinated approach by all Australian producers. In accomplishing that objective I am having talks with industry representatives and with the State governments. In that way everybody can have a better understanding of what the Government is aiming to achieve. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3). See answer to Question No. 28 13. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to my press statement of 24 November 1978 in which I announced the members of the Uranium Advisory Council. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1), (2) and (3). See answer to Question No. 28 13. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In London on 27 July 1978 when an item in the Radio Australia news bulletin circulated from Australia House was drawn to my notice. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1), (2) and (3). See answer to Question No. 2813. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The terms of reference of the Uranium Advisory Council were set out in my Statement to Parliament on 10 April 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3 ). See answer to Question No. 2813. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3). See answer to Question No. 28 13. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3). See answer to Question No. 2813. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3). See answer to Question No. 2813. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ),( 2 ) and ( 3 ). See answer to Question No. 2 8 1 3. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1), (2) and (3). See answer to Question No. 28 13. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
To the best of my recollection I became aware of this matter on 1 7 April 1 978 when Ministers discussed it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2 ) and (3 ). See answer to Question No. 28 1 3. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3). See answer to Question No. 2813. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3). See answer to Question No. 2813. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3). See answer to Question No. 28 1 3.  Nominations for Uranium Advisory Council  (Question No. 2712) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Details of the Agreement between Japan and New Zealand relating to access for Japan to New Zealand's fishing zone have not been publicly announced. I am aware, however, of reports that the agreement provides among other things for some form of special access to Japan for certain New Zealand products. 
The Australian Government is concerned at these reports and is pursuing this issue with the Japanese Government at both the Ministerial and official level. We have continued to seek assurances from Japan that any arrangements entered into between Japan and New Zealand are not discriminatory and that Australian exporters have an equal opportunity to compete for Japanese requirements. I am currently awaiting a response to representations which I have made to the Japanese Government on this matter. 
The Australian Government supports very strongly the most-favoured-nation principle in the conduct of international trade and would be concerned at any arrangements between third countries which had the effect of discriminating against Australian exporters. 
In answer to the honourable member's question, the information available to me is as follows: 
Although the current Californian legislation, Assembly Bill No. 2286, is designed to assist the export of any commodity (except almonds) grown in California, to date it has not been invoked by exporters of any of the abovementioned items. The legislation allows agricultural marketing organisations, with official approval, to impose levies on production and use the funds to promote export sales and subsidise export freight costs. Almonds come under Federal jurisdiction and are excluded from the provisions of the Californian legislation. 
The earlier legislation. Assembly Bill No. 3428, was invoked between August and October 1977, to assist in the export of canned peaches to Europe. However, due to a short crop and strong existing markets in the United States and Europe, the Californian Cling Peach Advisory Board has not applied to have the provisions of Assembly Bill No. 2286 invoked for the export promotion of Californian peaches. I understand that the levy collected in 1977 by the Cling Peach Advisory Board will not be used to promote exports or subsidise freight, but may be used to stage a national advertising campaign if there is an increased supply of peaches late in the 1978 season. 
-The honourable member for Lilley asked the Prime Minister, without notice, on 17 November 1978: 
In the absence of the Minister for Trade and Resources, I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I refer to the advice and the hopes made clear by the Government in respect of trade with China, particularly in relation to the export of technology from Australia. I ask the Prime Minister Has the Government an attitude on barter arrangements between China and an Australian exporting firm such as those that have existed with a number of British exporters for whom marketing rights in Great Britain were reserved exclusively by China following the use of the original British technology? 
The following is in answer to the honourable member's question: 
China is, of course, anxious to obtain a wide range of westem technology and is adopting a flexible attitude to the means by which it achieves that objective. This includes arrangements where all or part payment for technology is made in goods resulting from the use of the particular technology. The Chinese refer to these as 'buy back' rather than barter deals. 
Australian suppliers of technology are free to enter into commercial agreements of this type and the marketing arrangements in respect of Australia or other overseas markets are simply a matter for negotiation between the parties. The Chinese party would of course insist on handling the sale of the product within China. 
As with any commercial trading arrangement involving the import of products made overseas by or on behalf of an Australian firm the Government cannot give any assurance of continued access to the Australian market The import regulations, tariffs etc applicable to these products do not vary amply because there is some Australian involvement or content in their production abroad. 
Although China has paid cash for much of her technology imports in the past, there is growing evidence of payment in kind forming part of her contractual arrangements in more recent deals with European and Japanese suppliers of technology in particular. 
Australian companies contemplating 'buy back' deals with China, or any other country for that matter, should take early steps to satisfy the Reserve Bank, Treasury and Customs' officials as to the commercial valuation placed on the goods being accepted as full or part payment for the Australian technology. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Commission of the European Communities temporarily suspended export restitutions on butter sales to nonEEC countries from 13 November 1978 pending an examination of proposals from Community traders to export a large quantity of butter to the USSR. 
The levels of EEC export restitutions for the major dairy products as at 30 September 1 978 were as follows: 
Butter,$A2,300 per tonne; 
Skim milk powder, $A950 per tonne; 
Whole milk powder, $ A 1,340 per tonne; 
Condensed full cream milk, $ A 1,240 per tonne. 
EEC expert restitutions on cheese vary according to the cheese variety and the destination involved. The present export restrictions for some of the major cheese varieties entering world trade such as Cheddar, Edam, Gouda, Emmenthaler and Gruyere range between $A725-$A1,050 per tonne to Eastern Europe and between $A 1 ,  1 50-$A 1 , 360 per tonne to Australia. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) The Department indicated that it would wish to see the continuation of a reliable scheduled aircraft service because of the particular needs of businessmen who need to be able to plan ahead of travel at short notice with confidence that there will be a reasonable choice of flight schedules. Such a service would also provide exporters with a known freight capability. My Department also commented that there would be benefit to the development of Australia 's trade, particularly exports, for the maximum possible freedom to be given to airfreight into and out of Australia. My Department would also wish to see the easing of the existing complicated rate determination procedures, although advantage is seen in having a differential rate structure based on the urgency of the freight requirement The comments which my Department have made to the Department of Transport reflect the concern expressed over time to my Department by exporters with whom the Department is in constant contact 
(b) The views put forward by my Department are reflected in the final Report tabled in the Parliament. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A statement on the Bataan Project was made by Westinghouse in March 1978. A copy of the statement was received by the Australian Embassy in Washington. Responsibility for the contents of statements by Westinghouse is a matter for the company. 
Australian Manufactured Goods: Purchases  by  Department of Trade and Resources  (Question No. 1774) 
-The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by my colleague the Minister for Productivity in answer to question No. 1794  (Hansard  of 23 November, page 335 1 ). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The essential role of Trade Commissioner is to provide the commercial intelligence and support required by Australian exporters and the Government to enable commercial opportunities in overseas markets to be developed and maintained in the manner most suited to Australia's needs. 
Trade Commissioners in the majority of overseas Posts are concerned with trade development in its broadest sense and are well trained and briefed to service the needs of exporters and the Government and develop markets across the full range of Australia's export commodities and services. They, therefore, concern themselves with trade development and trade policy questions arising from export of manufactured products, agricultural commodities and minerals. 
Trade Commissioners (Agriculture) are attached to Missions in Brussels, London, Rome and Washington. In these posts there is sufficient workload because of the agricultural policies of the countries concerned to warrant one officer concentrating upon agricultural matters. 
The Trade Commissioner Service is kept under continual review in terms of its staffing level; the location of Posts; and the need to ensure that all export commodities, be they agricultural, mineral or manufactured products, are adequately serviced. Consideration will be given to appointing further Trade Commissioners (Agriculture) where needs exist 
Australian Trade Commissioner posts are located at: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As no new export contracts for Australian uranium have been entered into since 25 August 1977 it is not known at this stage whether exports under future contracts will be converted and enriched in these countries. 
In accordance with arrangements made pursuant to our Bilateral Safeguards Agreements covering those countries. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Negotiation of the agreement between the Northern Land Council and the Commonwealth, pursuant to sub-section 44 (2) of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976, in respect of the Ranger uranium deposits has already concluded. The agreement was executed by the Northern Land Council and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs (on behalf of the Commonwealth) on 3 November 1978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Department of Trade and Resources maintain.; a data bank, which includes statistics of Australian production, imports and exports of primary products. Information is similarly collected where available on world markets and other countries' production, exports and imports. Within the limits of the Departments resources, this statistical information is available to interested Australian firms. 
3 ) Both a data bank and export guidelines exist. 
-The answer to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
(a) Kawasaki Steel Corporation; Kobe Steel Ltd; Nakayama Steel Works Ltd; Nippon Kokan KK; Nippon Steel Corporation; Nisshin Steel Co. Ltd; Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd. 
The length of contracts currently range from 6 years to 25 years with the majority around 10 to 12 years. 
Prices are not available for publication, such information is provided to the Government on a confidential basis. 
The Australian Government does not have copies of contracts negotiated between Japan and iron ore suppliers other than Australia. However, pricing information with respect to those contracts is reported in the '1977- Iron Ore Manual' published by 'The Tex Report Co. Ltd'. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I refer the honourable member to data published by the OECD Nuclear Energy Agency/International Atomic Energy Agency entitled 'Uranium Resources, Production and Demand- December 1977' and data published by the OECD Nuclear Energy Agency entitled Nuclear Fuel Cycle Requirements and Supply Considerations through the Long-Term- February 1978' and Annual Reports of the AAEC. Copies of these publications would be available from the Parliamentary Library. 
I refer the honourable member to the reply given by the Minister for Productivity in answer to Question No. 1794  (Hansard,  page 335 1 of 23 November 1978). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Not applicable. 
I am concerned, and I think everybody is concerned, that farmers are being inflicted with increases in costs, particularly when they have to compete with other countries. I think that everybody who thinks about the situation recognises that Australia has to have a proper national energy policy- that is, pricing oil at import parity prices. This has been a policy which I have advocated for a long period. I have been subjected to a great deal of criticism for supporting that realistic policy. 
A great deal of concern has been expressed by the farming community from which I have had very many representations- I am sure many other people also have received representations- that its prices for fuel as compared with its competitors in other countries are higher. I have asked my Department to examine the price structure in other countries so that I can make a comparison. I have been notified that the Trade Development Council, an independent body which advises the Government on export promotion and trade promotion affairs, is examining this question as a result of requests that it has received and that it will be making a report. When that report is completed the Council will present it to me. 
-Negotiations have been proceeding in the course of the last two months. I am not up to date with what has happened and have asked my Department to prepare a report on them. The Department has had discussions, I believe, with all of the companies involved, and I hope within the next few days to have a report on those discussions. 
-Yesterday, at the conference which launched Export Now, I did speak of market opportunities around the world. I spoke of the enormous potential of China. China obviously, because of the dimensions of its market, offers one of the most exciting prospects on earth now that it has embarked upon a course of modernisation which will in time lift its living standards. Having just been to the Middle East with a group of Australian businessmen and officials, I have seen the massive public works programs, greatly increased living standards and changing dietary habits that have resulted from the newlyacquired wealth of the oil producing countries. Enormous opportunities exist immediately for Australian industry. Infrastructure work on ports, railroads and water facilities among others, is under way now. The next stage will be the development of secondary industry. 
I believe that Australian industry representatives should be in the Middle East looking at the opportunities available. The task will not be easy. Customs are different; the area has a harsh climate. But I am sure that, if Australian industry persists, it will find that enormous opportunities are available. I mention trade in foodstuffs. The market for sheep meats, live sheep, chilled lamb and frozen mutton is opening up rapidly. Prospects exist for the export of live cattle. We are consolidating our position with wheat exports. There are also great opportunities for dairy products and processing and for fruit, particularly Australian apples, and possibilities for citrus fruit. These are some of the prospects. 
There are prospects for joint ventures. While in the Middle East, I signed a memorandum of agreement for a meteorological system in Saudi Arabia. It will upgrade the present system and eventually establish a new one. The cost will be about $160m. I hope that the benefits to Australia by way of the supply of equipment and technical assistance will be $20m or $30m. The Secretary of the Automobile Association of Australia accompanied me. His organisation has put up a proposal for accident trucks throughout Saudi Arabia. The first stage of this proposal looks like being worth about $300m but could be very much greater. 
I have proposals before me for an aerial medical service in Saudi Arabia. The proposals are being thoroughly examined. I hope that Australia will be the successful tenderer. The proposal involves a flying doctor ambulance service and other health care services. If the tender is accepted we will provide radio equipment, aircraft such as Nomads, and medical supplies. These are some of the exciting opportunities available because of the living standards of these people who can pay for the services. With China, developments will be slower and longer term. China is an immense market now for our wheat and raw materials. The prospects will be immense. I hope that, if there is an immediate opportunity, people will not go past the Middle East. 
For the information of honourable members I present an authority made pursuant to section 41 of the Atomic Energy Act 1953 and issued to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, Peko-Wallsend Operations Ltd and the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd. 
For the information of honourable members I present a document entitled 'Ranger Uranium Project Government Agreement between the Commonwealth of Australia, Peko-Wallsend Operations Ltd, Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd and Australian Atomic Energy Commission'. 
For the information of honourable members I present a document entitled 'Ranger Uranium Project Management Agreement between Peko-Wallsend Operations Ltd, Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd, Australian Atomic Energy Commission and Ranger Uranium Mines Pty Ltd. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) From 20 August 1975 to 17 August 1976 inclusive on high quality coking coal, $6.00 per tonne; on other coals, $2.00 per tonne. 
From 18 August 1976 to 16 August 1977 inclusive on high quality coking coal, $4.50 per tonne; on other coking coal, $1.50 per tonne. 
From 17 August 1977 to 30 June 1979 inclusive on high quality coking coal, $3.50 per tonne; on other coking coal, $1.00 per tonne. 
and (3) Statistics are not maintained in form sought by the honourable member. Duty collections since the introduction of the coal export duty have been: 
1975- 76- $1 11,843,076 
1 976- 77- $ 12 1 , 33 1 , 526 
1977-78-$ 100,237,880 
1978-79 to 3 1 October-$25,575,143. 
and (5) Estimates have not been prepared on the basis sought by the honourable member. The estimate of revenue of $93 m in 1978-79 contained in the Budget Papers is based on estimated exports of 24.7 million tonnes of high quality coking coal and 6.4 million tonnes of other coking coal during the year. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Approval to travel on Concorde aircraft may be authorised by the Public Service Board in exceptional circumstances. 
Overseas travel by Ministerial staff requires the concurrence of the Prime Minister. 
Approximately $ 1 30. 
(a-c) (i) Nil. (ii) One officer travelled with the Prime Minister in June 1 978. (iii) Nil. 
Nil. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Approval to travel on Concorde aircraft may be authorised by the Public Service Board in exceptional circumstances. 
Overseas travel by Ministerial staff requires one concurrence of the Prime Minister. 
Approximately $130. 
and (4) Nil. 
-The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
An Australian Government Trade Commissioner post was established in Peking in 1973 and is staffed by a Trade Commissioner and an Assistant Trade Commissioner. 
It is proposed, in the near future, to strenghten Australia's trade representation in Peking through the addition of an Assistant Trade Commissioner. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answers to Question No. 2638  (Hansard,  21 November 1978, page 3156) and Questions Nos 3065 and 3082. 
In reply to the honourable member for Blaxland yesterday I said I would ask for my Department to have a complete report on the negotiations up to this stage. At this moment I have not received the report. 
-The question of trading with Taiwan and recognition of Taiwan is one that this Government has had to consider over the years. In recent years our attitude has been to recognise one China, with its capital in Peking. Trade with the province of Taiwan has been a matter for individual traders themselves to pursue. Before my last trip to the Middle East I asked for a factual report on how other countries that similarly recognised China and had a relationship with Taiwan handled their trade relations. When I have that report I will be in a better position to comment further, but we must recognise that China is a very important market to us and a very significant country. It has been a most important market for our wheat growers for the past 1 8 years. Any action that would jeopardise what is a rapidly growing market, by an indiscretion involving putting a trade office in Taiwan, would have to be considered carefully. 
We have been progressively strengthening our Trade Commissioner Service in the Middle East in the last two years. We have established a trade commissioner post at Kuwait. One will be established at Abu Dhabi within the next six months. There has also been a strengthening of the posts at Bahrain and Jeddah. I must admit that from my own point of view my visit to the Middle East certainly did familiarise me with a tremendous rate of progress in the area and it will certainly reinforce my persuasion with Australian industry that it ought to be concentrating still more in that area. 
I point out to the honourable gentleman that probably the most significant remarks that were made to me while I was in the Middle East concerned the disturbance of traders with the prohibition that was placed on the export of live stock from Australia and in particular the sheep dispute. I cannot emphasise enough the amount of damage that did to Australia's reputation as a reliable supplier. In fact, I was taken into one cool room to be shown chilled lamb from New Zealand, Chile, Argentina and Uruguay. My hosts said that they had not sought those markets until the bans were imposed, at which time they recognised that they had to find alternative supplies, from around the world. They were not going to tolerate a situation whereby their supply of lambs was being jeopardised. 
-If there is not a relationship between meat from live sheep and chilled sheep meat, I do not know what there is a relationship between. If they cannot get live sheep then they have to seek other forms of sheep meat. But what these people want is reliable supplies of sheep meat. They want a quantity of live meat and they want a quantity of processed meat. We ought to try to respond to whatever their demand is. I believe that in a period of time the amount of slaughtered meat will increase as the people there become more accustomed to it and have the facilities to handle it. I have invited the Ministers for commerce from the three countries that I visited to come to Australia this year. I believe that all three will come. I think that will be important in establishing better trade relations and better political relations. Problems of visas can be discussed between countries concerned. 
There are great opportunities for the livestock industry. I would hope that we can build up trade in live cattle and I would be very disappointed should Australian meat industry employees resist that because it will only be by establishing a taste for meat in that part of the world that ultimately more killed meat will be sold overseas. I am pleased to hear from the Deputy Leader of the Opposition that he is conscious of the trading possibilities in the Middle East, but the most important thing of all is to get the unions to cooperate so there are no disruptions to regular trade. 
-The Leader of the Opposition made a speech the other day and tried to belittle the Prime Minister for the optimistic remarks he made about manufacturing opportunities. He cited television sales to Hong Kong. I asked the Department to check the figures. The Department informed me that the Leader of the Opposition had been in touch with the Department and had asked for the figures for the past five years. The Department informed the Leader of the Opposition of the official trade figures to the end of 1977-78. Any later figures were unofficial. They were given to the Department in confidence. The Department did not intend to release them. The figures are given in confidence and they are not made public until the end of the year. I asked what the figures were for the sale of television sets. The company concerned advised that they could be made available. They were made available. Five thousand sets have been sold in the last three months. The Prime Minister was absolutely right. Obviously he had been talking with the principals of the company concerned. 
-From my knowledge of this enterprise, R. W. Miller Holdings Ltd sought to have another Australian partner replace it in the venture. To the best of my knowledge it has been unsuccessful in getting an interested partner. I am very disappointed that it has not succeeded because it is part of our policy to have part Australian involvement in the development of resources. We hope that Australian companies might be interested. I will look at the matter to see whether I can get some more information for the honourable member. 
I am aware of these bans, and I think they are reprehensible. I cannot think of anything that is doing greater damage to our national interest than a handful of louts taking upon themselves what should be Australia's national policy in relation to trade with the People's Republic of China. It is all right for people to have their ideological beliefs. We are a country, fortunately, where people can express them; but if, by industrial action, people inflict on others their beliefs on Australia's trading relations with other countries, then they do great damage to our national interests. China has become an extremely important trading country for Australia. In the last 10 years our trade with China has increased from $20m to $580m. For the iron ore industry, which has had to survive on very low prices during the current period, it is important to make the maximum sales possible. China has become our second largest market for iron ore, importing about 6.8 million tonnes last year. We are hoping that the market will grow still more, but if there is to be this continual disruption and discrimination against China because somebody does not like its involvement in the Vietnam war all I can say is that those people are doing great harm to a great Australian industry, to the nation as a whole and to our relationship with China. 
One of the things that has characterised the Hayden Australian Labor Party is its persistence in trying to talk down the economy, in casting gloom across the nation and in trying to display the Government as incompetent, impassionate and inhuman in its approach to the management of the affairs of the Australian people. This afternoon I want to dispel completely any such ridiculous accusations and to discredit the Labor Party for trying to talk down the economy and the confidence of this nation when there is every justification for doing just the opposite. 
There has been talk about welfare, of people on low incomes, and of pensioners. However, let me remind the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  that in the last December quarter the pension was 24. 1 per cent of the average weekly income, the highest level it has ever been in Australia's history and certainly far higher than it was during the period that the 
Labor Party was in office. But that is an irrelevant feature of this important debate. We can justify our actions in the welfare area even though we have had to try to constrain public expenditure where possible, and we have been able to strike a healthy balance between meeting the needs of the people and, at the same time, trying to stabilise the economy after the chaotic period when Labor was in office from 1972 to 1975. 
On Monday night this week I appeared on  Nationwide  television program to speak about Australia's export performance. On that program Richard Carleton, the interviewer, also had  Mr Hanness Chairman  of Hanimex Corporation Ltd, a world-famous Australian company producing photographic and electrical equipment which it sells all around the world. Unfortunately,  Mr Hanness  has taken most of his operations off-shore and has established manufacturing enterprises in many countries. In the course of that interview, when asked why he had done this, he said that it was the policies of the Government of the early 1970s- I must say that his good manners prevented him mentioning that it was the Labor Government- as well as the inflation, the rapid increase in wages, the loss of export incentives, the abolition of the depreciation allowance, the 25 per cent acrosstheboard tariff cut, the appreciation of the Australian dollar, and the instability which prevented industry in this country from making investment decisions and planning accordingly. Every one of those things occurred when Labor came into office in 1972. When we look back at the damage that was done during that period we realise why it has taken us a few years to bring back stability to this country. 
The statement made today by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is clear vindication of the policies we have embarked upon. They are succeeding and this is being recognised by people who were our severest critics. Today we are seeing renewed confidence, people wanting to get into production and wanting to export goods overseas, and this is something we have not seen for a number of years. I am pleased to see that even the Premier of New South Wales has said that the statistical indicators do point to sure moves ahead. I hoped that statements made earlier this year by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  reflecting the remarks of the Premier of New South Wales about there being greater optimism would have been repeated in his speech today. However, I am afraid that he quickly reverted to the usual gloom and disaster that is so characteristic of him. I would be very surprised if he is the sort of man Australia wants to lead it because the one thing that Australia needs today is a bit of enthusiasm and encouragement, and that is what this statement was all about. It showed the bright side instead of the gloomy aspects featured by those who are almost hoping for the worst. 
Employment, of course, is not as good as we would like it to be but the causes are clear. We have had to try to recover from the effects of high inflation rates. Wages are still excessively high and until the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission recognises the need for a greater degree of moderation in the decisions it brings down, it will be hard to keep inflation down to the sorts of levels that give people the confidence they need to employ more people. The bitter experience of 1974-75 demonstrates that the spending of more and more money will not solve the unemployment problem; it merely generates the pressures that cause greater unemployment. If we compare some of the indicators as they were when we took office with what they are today we will see that inflation has dropped from 17 per cent to 7.8 per cent. That is now below the average for countries comprising the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The result of the December quarter was a disappointment and a setback, but it did not represent any fundamental weakness in our policies. Without taking into account certain essential once-only Budget measures, the underlying rate of inflation for the December quarter was 1.9 per cent and that rate, or even the full rate of 2.3 per cent, is much envied by many other countries. 
Investment is picking up strongly. The Australian Mining Industry Council estimates that investment in the mining industry in 1978 rose by 72 per cent and that in 1979 it will rise a further 32 per cent. Company profits also are improving. Just reflect on the recent results announced in the newspapers by Amatil Ltd, the Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney Ltd, Comalco Ltd, Bougainville Copper Ltd, and Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd. Of course, the Labor Party will criticise profit as something that is almost illegal, but profit is the whole basis of confidence. Confidence is where investment comes from, and with investment come employment opportunities, and that is what we are all about. 
There has been a long overdue resurgence in our rural industries. Wool prices have risen sharply. Our wheat harvest will be a record one, and the long term contract just completed with China for  Vh  million tonnes of wheat over the next three years is further evidence of the healthy situation that is developing within the rural industry. In addition, prices and the demand for beef exports have improved significantly. Allowing for inflation, farm income is set to rise by 66 per cent this year and Australians have come to appreciate once again just how important the rural sector is in the overall economic growth and health of the economy. 
That other foundation of our economy, mining, is also experiencing strong recovery. Our major companies will increase their earnings markedly this year following substantial rises in copper prices, record lead prices, continued high prices for tin and firming rates for aluminium, zinc and cobalt. This in turn is reinforcing the intention of companies to step up their investment spending in Australia, demonstrating their confidence in the stability that is now being produced by lower inflation. 
Led by the strong performance of wool, wheat, beef and the improvement in mineral prices, our January trade surplus in seasonally adjusted terms was the best for 13 months. Exports are now growing at a significantly faster rate than imports. In recent years Australia has fallen behind in the export race. The Government is determined to restore our position. Only this week, I was responsible for implementing the 'Export Now' campaign to try to make people more aware that if this country is to continue to improve its living standards and general well-being it must earn its way in the world by selling more goods and services. I appreciate that this is a bipartisan attitude. I am appreciative of the support from the trade union movement and the Labor Party in at least participating in what I believe to be a matter of great national importance; that is to try to engender a greater awareness of and respect for the exporting industries of this nation. 
Growing consumer confidence has been reflected by the recent retail sales figures. In December they increased by 4.4 per cent in seasonally adjusted terms, the highest monthly increase on record. Housing purchases are also picking up. In December approvals to build new private dwellings rose by 6 per cent while the level of bank and building society loans for housing has never been higher. Only yesterday I had discussions with the Metal Trades Industry Association. It gave me details of a major survey which indicated that employment in the metal trades industry was increasing. Of the 178 companies surveyed, one-third said that employment had increased since last December. These factors ensure that we will leave the 1970s in a strong position to take full advantage of the opportunities and challenges facing us in the last 20 years of this century- a position we could not have contemplated three years ago when we inherited such a mess from the Australian Labor Party. 
The underlying factors determining prosperity have been set on the right course. Inflation is down; investment has picked up; company profits are improving; our rural and mining industries are leading a resurgence in exports; and in the economy generally there is strong evidence of growing consumer confidence. The way back to full-time job opportunities for all those who seek them can be found only by getting these factors back into proper balance. I have been greatly encouraged by announcements in recent weeks such as the decision by ICI Australia Ltd, to spend $900m on expansion in Victoria and New South Wales; the intention of General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd to spend $2 10m on a new engine plant; the $20m contract recently signed by a Melbourne company to supply prefabricated motel units to China; the $18m expansion to the Brisbane refinery by the Ampol company; and the possibility that the PekoWallsend smelter at Tennant Creek will be re-opened. 
These companies, by committing themselves to these projects are showing in a very positive way that they believe in our policies and that they feel secure in making these big decisions. Those are just some of them. The Prime Minister mentioned a host of others in his statement to the nation today. What is quite clear is that our poh.cies are working. There must be no complacency and no change in the attitudes we have taken. To get back on to the expenditure hike that the Labor Party is proposing would boost inflation and undermine the very sound and healthy state of the Australian economy today. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my statement to Parliament on uranium export policy of 1 June 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  1. (a) The following Australian agricultural exports subject to import quota control by New Zealand are on Schedule A of NAFTA which lists those goods to which the free trade provisions of NAFTA apply, or are covered by special NAFTA arrangements which provide for special access into New Zealand for limited quantities. Goods in the latter category are marked with an asterisk: 
Certain dried, dehydrated or evaporated vegetables 
Certain nuts 
-Unfortunately, the Leader of the Opposition did not get the significance of my answer last week which was that the supply of sheep meat to Middle East countries having been threatened, agents in those countries had to ensure that they had regular supplies of sheep meat and looked further afield than Australia as a supplier of either slaughtered sheep meats or live sheep meats. If they had not had a confrontation or been frightened by the bans that were imposed by the Australian meat industry workers, they would not have looked elsewhere. As a result of having supplies disrupted they had to ensure that they got meat from elsewhere, and if they could not get live sheep they looked for other types of meat. If one wants to look at the make-up of our availability of sheep meat one will find that if customers tend towards the purchase of chilled sheep meats they are not going to get slaughtered wethers or old ewes but are going to get lambs; and there is a limited amount of lamb available. If that is the type of chilled meat that they want they will not go and get chilled mutton. 
If the honourable member took an interest in the matter he would know that there is no such thing as chilled mutton in the market place and that there is only frozen mutton. All I want to emphasise to the Leader of the Opposition and to members of the Opposition is that if they want to build up the trade that is available in the Middle East they should try to meet the demand of the market place; and the demand of the market is for live sheep, chilled meat and frozen meat. The market wants all those types of meat and it is not up to the Australian meatworkers to determine what the ratios will be. 
-Our iron ore industry is of great national importance, being our fifth largest export industry. Therefore, I am very pleased to be able to say that a very satisfactory settlement has been reached between the major haematite iron ore producers and the Japanese steel mills. This is indeed pleasing. The Government's having required certain export control procedures to have been undertaken has resulted in the speediest of negotiations taking place. In fact last year they were not concluded until about August. This year they have now been concluded. They have concluded in a harmonious fashion which has shown that there can be a successful and harmonious working relationship between the Government and the industry. Indeed, the negotiations with the Japanese steel mills have run very smoothly. Fundamentally these negotiations have meant something like $A1 a ton increase in the price. That increase is spread across the entire contracts of these companies and will have flow-on effects on sales to the other Asian markets. This means that there will be a gain to Australia of something like $A45m or $US50m. European contracts have also been concluded reflecting similar price rises. 
-In relation to tonnage, the undertaking which the Japanese gave us previously and which they have abided by is that they will maintain the same ratio as previouslythat is, approximately 48 per cent of the marketand they will continue to give approximately that percentage of the market even on the new contract basis. So we will maintain the same proportional tonnage or there will be an increased tonnage should the Japanese mills produce more steel this coming year. 
I think the position is pleasing when one realises that last year there was a decline in prices for some of our contracts and also some unpleasantness. This year there has been none of that. When one takes into account the more realistic iron ore prices this year, measured against an international market situation of 30 per cent over capacity, it has indeed been a very successful negotiation. I am glad that all parties are satisfied with it. 
I hope I demonstrated in my previous answer that immense benefits have been derived by helping the industry to be more co-ordinated and synchronised with the Government in the sale of these raw materials. I think all the jibing I might have taken has been more than recompensed by the very successful iron ore negotiations that have been recently concluded. 
I mentioned in answer to a question last week that I was seeking a report from my Department on the progress of coal negotiations. I have received a report. No approvals have been given as yet. I am having further discussions with relevant people. When those discussions are completed I will be in a position to say more. 
-On 1 March the Ayatollah Khomeini declared that frozen meat was religiously unclean. He gave an instruction to the Prime Minister of Iran that all frozen sheep meat in the country should be destroyed and that a ban should be placed on such imports. On 3 March, two days later, the Iranian Minister for Agriculture, in a national broadcast, made the statement that Iran had no choice but to continue to import frozen meat until such time as the country was self-sufficient. So whether or not the ban has been imposed is a little unclear at this stage. The Australian industry has been carefully following the halal religious form of slaughter, according to Islamic rites. Before the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation will give a certificate for export this procedure has to be complied with. The Meat Corporation has been very strict in ensuring that meat going to Islamic countries has the prescribed certification. The Australian Trade Commissioner in Iran has been talking with officials of that Government to try to clarify the situation. I have explained that if they were in any way doubtful as to whether we were carrying out the correct procedures, the Australian Government would invite officials from Iran to come to Australia to see what takes place in our meatworks. We believe that the livestock is being killed strictly in accordance with Islamic law. The meat trade to Iran is very important to the Australian meat industry, be it the meatworks or the producers of sheep meat. Iran took about $70m worth of frozen sheep meat last financial year, and we believe that Iran is one of the greatest potential markets for that trade. With Iran's large population and its need to import meat, we would naturally like to keep this trade open and continuous. I hope that any doubts that might be in the minds of the Iranian officials will be cleared up as soon as possible because I really do not think that there is any justification for the allegations that have been made. 
I welcome very much the release of the Crawford report. I welcome the emphasis it places on developing our exports and the need for Australia, particularly its manufacturing industries, to get involved in more exports because of the job opportunities this creates and the stimulation it gives to industry within Australia. I do not think there is a general awareness in Australia that over recent years Australian manufactured exports have not been growing at the same rate as world trade in manufactured exports. Australia's growth rate has been only about two-thirds of the overall world situation. That is unfortunate. Greater emphasis needs to be put on encouraging our exporters to get out and find new markets. The Crawford Committee 's report really confirms the actions that the Government has already taken to try to encourage export performance. 
The introduction of the Export Expansion Grants Act has given a real incentive to companies to increase their export performance. We have also streamlined and broadened the operations of export market development grants. We have improved the financing facilities of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation. We have brought into being the Overseas Projects 
Corporation, which has the capacity to bring together Australian industries for large operations. I am also having conducted a complete review of the Trade Commissioner Service and strengthening it in those areas where there are greatest trade opportunities. All this falls into line with the Government's policy of trying to encourage and assist Australian manufacturing industries to go out and seek opportunities in areas where new trade patterns are developing. But probably the highlight of the Government's policy objectives is the campaign known as Export Now' that has been launched to try to make Australians as a whole conscious of the need to export more in order to maintain and develop Australian living standards. I am very pleased that this campaign is getting good recognition amongst the Australian media and the public at large. I am very pleased with the support that is coming forward from industry and the trade union movement. It is a worthwhile program which has been endorsed very much by the Crawford Committee's report. 
by leave- I wish to advise the House that the Commonwealth Government has approved the development of the Nabarlek uranium deposit by Queensland Mines Ltd. In making this decision, the Government has taken full account of the recommendations made by the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  in relation to the final environmental impact statement submitted by 
Queensland Mines on 19 January 1979. 1 would remind the House that, when announcing on 25 August 1977 its decision to proceed with uranium mining at Ranger, the Government indicated that further uranium mining projects in the Alligator Rivers Region would only proceed when the Government was fully satisfied as to the acceptability of the impact of the development on the environment and the Aboriginal people, having regard for the region as a whole. There are still some legal and administrative requirements with which Queensland Mines will have to comply before actual work can proceed. The authority to develop the Nabarlek project will be granted under the Northern Territory Mining Act as a Special Mineral Lease. 
The Government is satisfied that the legislative controls which we introduced in April 1978 regulating uranium mining in the Alligator Rivers Region, in conjunction with the environmental requirements which will be imposed on the company, together with the controls negotiated and agreed between the Northern Land Council and Queensland Mines Ltd, will ensure that any adverse impact on the local Aboriginal population will be minimised. The Government is also satisfied that opportunities exist to allow the Aboriginal people to benefit from and participate in the proposed development. The legislative controls to which I have referred provide for the establishment of the Office of the Supervising Scientist, a Co-ordinating Committee for the Alligator Rivers Region and a Research Institute to maintain a close watch over the environment within the region. The Aboriginal people, through the Northern Land Council, are represented on the Co-ordinating Committee. In addition the Northern Land Council has been given standing in the Northern Territory Supreme Court to bring suit in relation to the enforcement of the environmental requirements controlling mining at Ranger. Similar provisions will apply to Nabarlek. 
The Northern Land Council, on behalf of the traditional owners, has negotiated arrangements with Queensland Mines Ltd which in part provide for the control of the movement of nonAboriginal people to and within the project area, control of alcohol, the housing of non-Aboriginal workers in Darwin when off-duty, the protection of sacred sites, instruction of non-Aboriginal employees on aspects of Aboriginal culture, the formation of a liaison committee, training and employment of Aboriginal people and the establishment and promotion of local business enterprises by Aboriginals. The Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies was commissioned last year by the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to establish an on-going program to monitor the social impact of mining developments on the Aboriginal population within the Alligator Rivers Region. The Institute is in the process of establishing this program. 
The Nabarlek deposit contains some 9,000 tonnes of uranium oxide. Production of concentrates will be at a rate of about 1,080 tonnes per annum over an 8 to 10 year period. Development of the mine, mill and treatment facilities is expected to take approximately 18 months. Work on the construction of the plant and development of the mine is expected to commence within the next two months. 
I would like to take this opportunity to inform honourable members of the position relating to the development of some of the other uranium projects in Australia. Production of uranium oxide recommenced at Mary Kathleen in Queensland in 1976. Agreement has been reached with Peko and EZ for the development of the Ranger deposits. Production at Ranger is expected to begin in 1 98 1 -82. 
In relation to the Yeelirrie deposit in Western Australia, the Minister for Science and the Environment advised me recently that there are no objections on environmental grounds to that project subject to satisfactory arrangements being made with the Western Australian Government. The announcement last week by the Premier of Western Australia on the Yeelirrie project is therefore welcome news that the Western Australian Government is satisfied with the arrangements. 
In my statement to Parliament on 25 August 1977 I said that the Commonwealth Government would take decisions on the development of projects such as Yeelirrie subject to satisfactory completion of the necessary environmental requirements. The Commonwealth Government is obviously now in a position to take such a decision. 
The Yeelirrie project would of course have to comply with other requirements laid down by the Government. These include foreign investment approval of the proposed equity arrangements and compliance with uranium marketing policies. As to the Jabiluka and Koongarra deposits in the Alligator Rivers Region, the companies involved, Pancontinental Mining Ltd and Noranda Australia Ltd, have submitted draft environmental impact statements. Pancontinental and Noranda will also have to reach satisfactory arrangements with the Aboriginal people. 
The Government's decision on Nabarlek is a further step forward in our policy for the development of Australia's uranium resources. Honourable members will have seen from the arrangements made in respect of Ranger, and which are being made in respect of Nabarlek, that the Government is taking great care to strike a responsible balance. We want to see a balance between the economic development of our uranium resources and the positive protection of the environment. We also want to ensure that proper provision is made for the welfare and interests of Aboriginal people in the Alligator Rivers Region and of all other people living in the region and working on the development projects. I present the following paper: 
-A lot of publicity has been given to this matter. I can well imagine the antinuclear people getting on the band wagon and peddling this incident to the maximum. I have asked my officials to give me information on this incident. The information basically that they have come back with is that there is no threat or risk at all of nuclear reaction taking place. 
I also was very pleased to read in the newpapers that the minerals and mining indices had hit the highest point for the past six years. The mining index is really a barometer reflecting the interest and the confidence of Australian and overseas investors in the Australian mining industry, and this situation is due to a number of factors. First and foremost of course would be the confidence that the Gover.nent's policy, of stabilising the economy and basically getting the rate of inflation under control, has given to people who are prepared to invest in the mining industry. Secondly, it reflects the revised appreciation rates and the forms of assistance we have given to encourage people to get out and develop the mining industry. Thirdly, it also reflects the improvement in world mineral prices, particularly the prices for non-ferrous metals. Fourthly, I believe it is a reflection of the successful conclusion of the negotiations for long term contracts with Japan for coal and iron ore. The total value now of all our long term contracts for iron ore and coal for this year is $2.8 billion. That gives an enormous degree of security to those big industries. Fifthly, I think one can say that there is a tremendous amount of development now taking place. Approximately $7 billion worth of mineral development has either started or is about to commence in Australia. This represents renewed activity. Again, that is reflecting itself in the upsurge in certain mineral prices. 
Lastly, I believe that the international crisis surrounding the future supply of oil is starting to highlight Australia's energy resources. The prospects for the North West Shelf look quite conclusive now. It should be able to enter into long term arrangements for the sale of liquefied natural gas. There is abnormal interest in Australia's steaming coal prospects. Since the Government announced the go-ahead for the uranium mines at Ranger and Nabarlek there has been greater confidence that Australia will proceed with uranium development. All round, it is little wonder that the stock exchange is reacting in the way it has reacted. It is doing so because of the way in which the Government has handled its policies in relation to getting more investment into the mining area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The European Economic Community has concluded only one framework commercial agreement. This is the Framework Agreement for Commercial and Economic Cooperation between Canada and the European Communities' which entered into force on 1 October 1 976. 
The Agreement provides a framework for Canada/Economic Communities economic co-operation, covering trade, investment and industrial co-operation. The Agreement gives each side most-favoured-nation status without providing tariff or customs preferences. The European Economic Community also has a large number of preferential and non-preferential trade agreements. The trade agreement with China, which entered into force on 1 June 1978 and provides for most-favoured-nation treatment, falls into the latter category. 
2 ) Australia already has trade agreements where it is considered desirable to establish formally the trading relationship on a bilateral basis. In the case of developed market economy countries whose trading relations with Australia are governed by mutual GATT membership it has not generally been considered necessary to negotiate formal bilateral arrangements. Exceptions to this rule are Japan, New 
Zealand, Canada with whom Australia has entered into trade agreements for special reasons. 
In the case of the European Economic Community considerations concerning a trade agreement have been set aside pending a satisfactory response to our substantive trade complaints. 
I presume that when the honourable member for Leichhardt refers to our principal trading partners he is talking about the United States of America, the European Economic Community and Japan. As honourable members would be aware, the multilateral trade negotiations have been proceeding for a number of years and are now reaching a crunch point. We have reached the point where bilateral negotiations are proceeding, with examination of the offers made by each country. In the case of the United States, a team of senior Australian officials has been in that country on a number of occasions this year. It was reported to me today that the group that went to the United States last week is now reaching a stage in the negotiations where it can present the offers that have been reached to the respective Ministers and those Ministers, in turn, can present them to their countries. If the negotiations are to be brought to a conclusion, it will be necessary for me to go to Washington next week to try to bring the matter to finality. 
The agreement with the United States is the cornerstone of our multilateral trade negotiations. Once that has been concluded we can put into place the offers that are being made in relation to the EEC, Japan and, of course, other countries. In the case of the EEC, the Minister for Special Trade Representations is currently engaged in negotiations and discussions with the commissioners of the EEC and also with member countries. It is not possible at the moment to anticipate what will be the outcome of the negotiations, but there are hopeful signs in that a number of member countries of the Community are showing increasing understanding of what is needed if there .is to be a mutually satisfactory agreement. I am hoping that a result is near at hand. In relation to Japan, negotiations have been proceeding in that country. It is expected that we will have every chance of reaching a mutual agreement in the very near future. 
I am very happy to reply to the Leader of the Opposition when he raises this sort of question because it gives me a chance to express the Government's attitude and my own beliefs regarding the need to give incentive and encouragement to private enterprise to develop in this country. One of the matters on which I was very outspoken during the period in which the Leader of the Opposition was in Government was the export levy applied to coal. The export levy was a disincentive to the development of one of the greatest potentials in this country. We made an election pledge that when we came into office that export levy would be removed. The Government has progressively reduced that levy, and will be reducing it this year. That has resulted in the restimulation of the development of the coal industry which had virtually come to a standstill during the period in which the Labor Party was in office. Not one major coal mining project took place during the period it was in office. One would think that a party which is supposed to espouse the interests of the working people, particularly the coal mining unions, would have been acting in a way which would have developed that industry. Of course, we remember only too well the reaction from the coal mining unions to this export levy. I have been strongly opposed to a resource tax, as has the Government. We know the disincentive it is to foreign and Australian investors to risk enormous amounts of capital in developing resources if they believe that there is going to be a heavy resource tax. We know from the statements of the Leader of the Opposition that if the Labor Party comes into office it will impose this resource tax. I only hope that the various unions involved with mining in this country take note of that fact and that when they go to the ballot box in 1980 they will thoroughly reject the Labor Party. 
-When the Prime Minister was in the United States negotiations had been proceeding. As I mentioned yesterday, negotiations have been proceeding for a considerable period. These negotiations involve offers and bids being made by the respective countries. The Prime Minister said in his statement that Australia had every reason to expect a reduction in the duties in the case of wool and that he hoped for access in relation to dairy products and that there would be minimum requirements concerning access for beef to the United States market. Negotiations have been proceeding. As I said, it is only this week that the negotiations have been positioned to enable Ministers to enter and to try to finalise- 
It would be quite wrong to interpret anything that the Prime Minister said as meaning that the negotiations were concluded. They were in the process of being concluded. A great deal of progress had been made. The Prime Minister's involvement and contacts with senior personnel of the American Administration helped enormously in getting Australia 's point of view registered. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) There are a number of publications which set out the conditions of eligibility for exporters who wish to take advantage of grants provided under the Export Market Development Grants Act. That Act does not give the Board the authority to guarantee in advance that expenditure which might be intended for certain purposes will be determined ultimately as eligible for a grant. The Board can make its determinations only on the basis of facts supplied by the applicant regarding eligible expenditure actually incurred. 
Reports have been brought to my notice regarding delays with payments of grants. 
Following the introduction in 1974 of the Export Market Development Grants scheme, the Board was established in June 1 975 to administer the scheme. There were initial problems in developing procedures which resulted in a backlog of claims being carried over at the end of each grant year. The experience of the Board has been that in many cases claims which have had the appearance of being straightforward in fact on investigation have required further information to be furnished which has materially affected the amount of grant entitlement. 
In 1978 the staff of the Board was increased and its membership was also increased by two industry representatives. Difficulties of the Board have been compounded because, with the new scheme, the Board will have to cope with the receipt for claims for two grant years in a period of less than twelve months. In the last few days I have met with the Board and discussed with them further steps which might be taken to ensure that exporters receive their grants with a minimum delay. 
Explanatory notes and leaflets, together with the relevant Acts, are currently available to exporters who wish to take advantage of the schemes. Seminars on the schemes have taken place in all states and more are planned. Officers of the Board are available in each State to discuss the requirementt of the Acts and to consider problems that individual exporters may have with the incentives schemes. Assistance is available which should ensure that small exporters are encouraged to take part in the export drive. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) There is no quota on imports of frozen peas from New Zealand. Frozen peas are on Schedule A of NAFTA and are accordingly traded across the Tasman free of duty. They are specifically referred to in an Exchange of Letters appended to NAFTA as a product on which it was agreed that neither country would maintain quantitative import restrictions against imports from the other country. 
The Joint Australia/New Zealand Pea and Bean Industry Panel reaches an annual understanding on a 'quantitative guidelines estimate', the volume of New Zealand frozen peas likely to be exported to Australia in the ensuing calendar year. Where this guideline is substantially exceeded further consultations are held. 
The following table compares actual imports of frozen peas from New Zealand with the guideline agreed by the Joint Panel since 1 969. 
On behalf of my colleagues in the National Country Party, I want to support the motion of condolence, moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and seconded by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  in respect of our late colleague, Frank Stewart. It is indeed a very sad occasion when one of our colleagues dies, especially one who served in this Parliament for such a long period and had such a distinguished parliamentary career as a private member and as a Minister. 
In 1965 I travelled overseas with Frank Stewart. We had the opportunity of getting to know each other. We became friends. I always considered him a manly man, a person dedicated to his party and devoted to his family. Frank had very strong religious convictions. This led him to take a strong stand on moral issues. We all remember the forthright and unyielding way in which he put his views on matters relating to the sanctity and security of family life.  His  high principles also extended to his political views and convictions. As was mentioned by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  Frank Stewart was of the old school of Labor men. At times in his career he suffered because of his attachment to his principles. Frank Stewart was the kind of man who won respect from people from both sides of politics. He certainly had my respect and that of my colleagues. We join in the expressions of sympathy to  Mrs Stewart  and Frank's six children. They can take great pride in the fact that Frank Stewart was a man who served his country and his fellow man with humility yet with a determination based on the strong convictions and principles that guided all his actions. 
I think all members of this House would be aware of the phenomenal industrial growth of Korea and of the opportunities opening up for the sale of raw materials to that country. This morning I had discussions with the Korean Minister for Energy and Resources,  Mr Chang.  He was able to give me information as to how the Korean Government sees developments taking place in the Republic of Korea. I feel that the figures are so significant to Australian industry that I should inform this House of them. Korea has a nuclear program which it hopes to continue to develop as an alternative form of energy to oil for power generation. It anticipates the building of two nuclear power stations per annum and expects to have about 40 nuclear power stations by the year 2000. If Australia were to supply the uranium for that nuclear power program it would mean that 80,000 tonnes of uranium would be supplied between now and the year 2000. 
The Korean Minister also spoke about Korea's program for the production of steel. By 1986 Korea expects to be importing 1 1.2 million tonnes of coking coal and 24.5 million tonnes of iron ore. The Korean Government also expects to be importing approximately 4.8 million tonnes of steaming coal for coal-fired power stations by 1986. It hopes to import 800,000 tonnes of copper, 530,000 tonnes of manganese, 4 million tonnes of phosphate, 90,000 tonnes of asbestos and 370,000 tonnes of zinc. It also is interested in getting into joint ventures for the manufacture of aluminium in Australia to supply Korea's needs. Quite obviously, Korea will be a very important and very significant market in the future for the supply of raw materials. I only hope that Australian industry can respond by meeting some of these requirements. 
The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  is obviously having a lot of fun today with the motion that he has brought before the House. He has weighed in very heavily with party politics ih trying to capitalise on the circumstances of the last few weeks. It would have been effective but his argument has not remained consistent throughout; nor has it been in line with some of the statements he has made over the past few weeks. He along with other people has tried to make a lot out of the part taken by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the debate in the Liberal Party's Federal Council in Perth on the weekend before last. It has been suggested that there was something of particular significance in what the Prime Minister said or did not say. I and my colleagues fully understand the tremendously difficult situation that the Prime Minister was in during that meeting. All honourable members in positions of leadership encounter situations in which they must tread a very difficult path between conflicting views. I am not terribly concerned about what the Prime "Minister did or did not say. We fully understand the difficulties he faced on. that particular occasion. 
I have been around this place quite long enough to be able to look after myself. What does matter is that we understand between us and I can assure the Labor Party that if it-is hoping to see a division between us it is going to be very disappointed. I remind the House of what the Prime Minister said a few weeks ago to this House. He said: 
I give an absolute commitment to this House that the Government will pursue policies designed to maximise the benefits for Australia from the export of its raw materials and resources. 
This is precisely .my attitude. The Prime Minister and I and the Government as a whole are determined to work to devise arrangements in cooperation with the States '.and industry that will serve Australia 's interests. 
In some respects the reporting of this matter by the media has been appalling. There has~been a complete failure on the part of some journalists to understand the difference between export controls as such and the procedural guidelines introduced last October. This lack of understanding has led a number of people to make assertions and reach conclusions which are very wide of the mark. I distinguish between news reporting and the editorial comment which some newspapers have made. 
I have seen editorial comment which has been based on a clear understanding of the fundamental issues involved. The result of that understanding has been that sound conclusions have been drawn in most cases. Generally the view has been taken that the Australian Government has a responsibility to ensure that Australia's interests are protected in the sale of our major mineral resources. What the Government is keen to do in consultation with the States and in continuing co-operation with industry is to establish the most effective and appropriate methods of fulfilling that responsibility. Let us look more closely at the philosophy and the rationale behind export controls for any commodity, not just minerals. The Commonwealth Government has constitutional authority to exercise control over exports. The Commonwealth must have the ability to exercise control over exports to meet the responsibility to protect the national interest. That is a paramount requirement of the Commonwealth Government and I hope that it is unquestioned. 
The Commonwealth and the States have important interests, important roles and important responsibilities in all commodities but particularly in the mining and resource areas. While those things relate to different aspects of the industry and to different aspects of the national interest it is vital that all governments work in cooperation to see that the national interest is protected. The Commonwealth cannot abrogate its particular responsibilities to anyone else. 
-The most recently revised figures by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics for exports of rural products for the year 1 978-79 indicate that the total value of agricultural exports will reach a record level of $5, 800m. This represents about a 15 per cent increase on the previous year. Wool exports this year are likely to reach $ 1,535m, which represents an increase of 19 per cent on the previous year. Exports of wheat are estimated at $9 10m. This figure, however, is slightly down, reflecting the poorer season in the previous year. Exports of meat are estimated at $1,7 17m, which represents an increase of 67 per cent on the previous year. These figures reflect the steadily improving situation of the prices received for rural exports, in particular meat. As yet they have not substantially reflected the improved seasonal conditions of this year. I am confident that next year's export figures will be significantly higher than those for this year, reflecting the bumper crop, the greatly improved prices for meat exports and the satisfactory situation for wool. As I have said on many occasions, the health and importance of the rural industries are reflected throughout the whole economic circumstances of Australia. Just as hard times on the farm are reflected in economic problems for Australia, so too are good times reflected by improved economic circumstances such as those that are apparent in our economy today. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a statement. 

 - Mr Speaker, I inform the House that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  leave Australia today to attend the meeting of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development in Manila. The Prime Minister is expected to return next weekend and  Mr Garland  on 27 May. During their absence I am acting as Prime Minister and Minister for Special Trade Representations. 
The Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  left Australia on 5 May to attend a meeting of the International Energy Agency and a meeting of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development Ministerial Committee on the Environment. He is expected to return on 26 May and during his absence the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  is acting as Minister for National Development. 
The Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  left Australia on 3 May to visit China, Europe and North America on cultural and sporting matters and matters concerning the arts. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  is acting as Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory until the Minister's return on 27 May. 
I want to state quite categorically to the House that there is no disagreement between the Acting Prime Minister and the Minister for Trade and Resources. Maybe those two stand alone. The question of guidelines has been debated in this House. The whole question of export controls was brought up in this place last week in a debate on a matter of public importance. I thought that adequately covered the Government's position. A definitive statement was put out after our meeting in Perth. That statement gives the Government's position. There will be consultations with the States regarding a mechanism to bring about a consultative arrangement between the States and the Commonwealth for the operation of export controls. In the implementation of these controls we want to look at the possibility of consultations also with the industry. I think everybody in this country wants to see a concerted effort between the States and the Commonwealth to ensure that we maximise the development and benefits of Australia's mineral industries. I am sure that there is no difference of opinion in that respect. 
That is what the Government is aiming to achieve. 
I have pressed the United States Administration to try to get through Congress as quickly as possible the ratification of the International Sugar Agreement. A few weeks ago when I was in Washington I emphasised to the Secretary of Agriculture,  Mr Bergland,  and to the Assistant Secretary of State,  Mr Cooper,  how important it was to the sugar world that America ratify the Agreement. Until America does this there will not be an improvement in the price because the world is in doubt as to whether the International Sugar Agreement will be sustained and made workable. I emphasised that in Australia, where the industry has imposed severe disciplines on itself, it is expecting some reward for the sacrifice it has made. The industry wants a response in the market price as a result of the reduction in supply. 
Also, I was interested to see the remarks of Ambassador Young who is visiting Australia at the moment. The other night on an Australian Broadcasting Commission program he pointed out that one of the greatest ways of helping the developing world was through commodity agreements. He pointed out that if we could get the International Sugar Agreement ratified by the United States- and, of course, if the European Economic Community would show a sensible approach to the Agreement- there would be a more beneficial effect on the developing countries than there is with all the aid given by the United States and Australia. I think that this is a clear indication of the great benefits that can be derived by a sensible, co-ordinated and co-operative approach by the world to commodity arrangements. The Prime Minister, during his visit to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, will stress Australia's view of wanting to co-operate with the integrated commodity program and to try to bring about more stability in international prices. I hope that the United States will move quickly to see that the ISA is ratified. The United States has given assurances that it wants the Agreement ratified, but it has had a domestic problem in getting the acceptance of Congress. However, once the Agreement is ratified, all pressure will be applied to the EEC and let us hope that it will adopt a responsible approach to this matter. 
I think it is obvious that every country has had to bear a heavier price for oil as a result of the pricing decisions of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries and the general scarcity that is prevailing because of the oil supply situation in Iran. To imagine that there would not be some increase in price during that period is to show complete ignorance. Of course, what the Australian Government has done with a good deal of consideration is to move onto import parity- a situation which most countries have had to face up to and accept. Even in the great United States, which has been trying to avoid this situation, the  President  has now accepted that it will have to move towards import parity. Unless we move towards the market price for such a precious and vital commodity as oil then we get the allocation of energy resources into imbalance. 
What we want in this country is to ensure that there is the maximum development of alternative forms of energy. Unless we have realistic pricing for oil people will not be diverted to these other sources of energy. The more we can encourage people to use coal, gas and solar forms of energy and the more research we can encourage, both by government and industry, to find alternative means of energy to that of oil, the better off this country will be. But it would be ludicrous to take the attitude adopted by the Labor Party of not accepting world parity price for oil. The adoption of such an attitude would put this country into a very vulnerable position. 
I am sure that all honourable members of this House are saddened to hear of the death of  Sir Charles  Adermann. He had been a colleague and friend of many honourable members and former honourable members from both sides of the House and was the father of our colleague Evan Adermann, the honourable member for Fisher and Minister for Veterans' Affairs. I move: 
That this House expresses its deep regret at the death, on 9 May 1979, of the Right Honourable  Sir Charles  Frederick Adermann, K.B.E-, a member of this House for the Division of Maranoa from 1943 to 1949 and for the Division of Fisher from 1949 to 1972,  Chairman  of Committees from 1950 to 1958 and a Minister of the Crown from 1958 to 1967; and that this House places on record its appreciation of his long and meritorious public service and tenders its profound sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 

 Sir Charles Adermann was born on 3 August 1896 at Vernon Siding in Queensland. At the young age of 28 he entered the service of his State as  Chairman  of the Queensland Peanut Marketing Board, a position he retired from in 1952. He served as  Chairman  of the Kingaroy Shire Council from 1939 to 1946. He was a man well known in his district and in his industry. 
In the national Parliament,  Sir Charles  Adermann served with great distinction. He was elected to this House at 1 1 elections. In 1955 he was elected unopposed. He was  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party from 1964 to 1966. In 1950, he became  Chairman  of Committees of this House, holding the position until 1958. He served this House as  Deputy Speaker  on three occasions in that period. 
In 1958  Sir Charles  was appointed Minister for Primary Industry. Again he served the Parliament with the distinction he had brought to the position of  Chairman  of Committees. Over the nine years he held that portfolio,  Sir Charles  placed a distinctive stamp on Australian agriculture. He was liked and respected by all those with whom he came in contact. I had the honour to be Acting Minister for Primary Industry on two occasions when  Sir Charles  was overseas. I had first-hand experience of the command  Sir Charles  had of his portfolio. 

 Sir Charles was first and foremost a parliamentarian.  His  work as  Chairman  of Committees testifies to this. He also appreciated the need for contact with other parliaments. He attended three conferences of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. In 1965 he was delegation leader.  Sir Charles's  efforts for the Government and the people of Australia were also recognised in 1 966 when he was appointed a member of  Her  Majesty's Privy Council. In 1 970  Sir Charles  was appointed a Knight Commander of the British Empire. 
Charlie Adermann was a deceptively gentle man. He was a man of enormous courage and strength. He was a man of great tenacity. If he believed what he was doing was right he stuck to his guns. I recall the battles he fought 15 years ago to win support for an improved wool marketing scheme. He fought for the scheme repeatedly in Cabinet and elsewhere, and no matter how often he was defeated he kept fighting. There is no doubt that  Sir Charles  was ahead of his time in this matter, as in others. I think there is little doubt that if he had won the support of the industry at that time for changes in the wool marketing scheme, wool growers would have avoided much of the agony they suffered in later years, before we were able to get a wool marketing scheme on a sound basis, as it is today. 
The words 'reconstruction' and 'adjustment' are commonly heard today in relation to the rural industries. In the minds of many people my name is associated with those words and the policies they represent, as is the name of my colleague the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  But what is often forgotten is that it was Charles Adermann who, shortly before he retired from the Ministry, pioneered these approaches. They were made to the dairy industry in the beginning; but, of course, they now apply virtually to all rural industries. Today the principles which he had begun to expound are widely applied and accepted as extremely significant and effective for our rural industries. 
One of the most important things  Sir Charles  Adermann did was to enlarge the Commonwealth extension services grants- something which had a real impact on the development of agricultural techniques in this country. He was heavily involved in the tobacco and wheat industry stabilisation schemes, which gave a great degree of stability and certainty to those industries. As the  Chairman  of the Australian Agricultural Council, Charles Adermann was highly respected by Ministers of all political persuasions, and he conducted the business of the Council very effectively. I know that he was held in the highest regard and affection by the officers of his Department- officers who later served with me and whose respect for him was very evident. 
All of us who were in the party with him remember him with a great deal of affection. When I became a member of this Parliament in 1957, Charlie Adermann was one of several 'father figures' of the party, who included Artie Fadden, John McEwen, Walter Cooper and Hugh Roberton- all of whom were Ministers. No doubt it was a good thing that, at a time when a bunch of brash young fellows was coming into the ranks of the party in this Parliament, we had the tremendous strength, the experience, and the steadying hand of these great Australians to guide us. All of them made a great contribution to the work of the Parliament and to the wellbeing, in particular, of the people of the country areas of Australia- and in the agricultural area, Charles Adermann made a special contribution which will be long remembered. 

 Sir Charles Adermann was a man with a deep religious faith and conviction. Honourable members will be pleased to know, I am sure, that the state funeral which will be accorded  Sir Charles  on Friday afternoon will be held at the Church of Christ in Kingaroy, the church with which he had a long, close and dedicated association. I think it is an indication of  Sir Charles  Adermann 's devotion that for 40 years, despite the very heavy demands on his time as a result of his public life, he conducted a Sunday morning radio broadcast for children- the only Sunday school many children in remote areas ever had. There are many thousands of people in Queensland who remember that program, and the voice of 'Uncle John', as Charles Adermann called himself for the purposes of the program, which he broadcast for the last time only five or six months ago. In his early days as the member for Maranoa, he had to travel from Canberra to Brisbane in a DC3, and then by bus for seven or eight hours to Kingaroy- surely demonstrating a resilience and dedication that are to be admired. 

 Mr Speaker, I believe that all honourable members will join me in extending sympathy to Lady Adermann, to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann),  and to the other members of  Sir Charles's  family. We feel a great sense of loss for a man who distinguished himself as a parliamentarian, a Minister and a dedicated member of my party. 
-The Export Market Development Grants Act has been before the House and certain amendments have been made to improve the operations and performance of the export market development grants scheme. In amending the Act provisions were brought down to provide that people had to be bona fide exporters of reasonable substance to be able to get the benefits of the grants provided. In the case of people who export goods, a minimum ceiling of $25,000 was imposed. I think it is fair to say about anybody who is exporting less than $25,000 worth of goods that it is hard to justify that the additional amount of money he might get by way of export grants will be very relevant. We also set a limit as far as the people who provide services for export earnings are concerned, such as contractors and consultants. In that case, $10,000 was put as the minimum amount of work needed to be undertaken. As far as the tourist industry is concerned, there was a minimum of $5,000. The various levels were all examined very closely in accordance with the Export Development Grants Board's long experience of providing grants to assist industry and they were considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances. 
I am not in the habit of handing out birthday gifts to industrialists across this country, although I know that the gentleman referred to by the honourable member for Swan has been very persistent for many years in his attempts to get the Marandoo project off the ground. I cannot say categorically whether I read the particular article referred to, but, if it implied that I had suggested that there should be priorities in the development of iron ore projects in Western Australia, it was totally wrong and false to do so. I have always accepted the premise that any priorities for the development of mineral projects should be decided on a strict commercial basis. They should be based on the capacity of a company to get long term contracts. 
I am afraid that that one is established; it was a matter of keeping it going. The companies developing new iron ore projects in Western Australia have to get long term contracts and they have to be able to borrow enormous amounts of capital to develop those huge deposits. So their development is based very much on commercial considerations. However, if it were the wish of the State to be involved in priorities, that would be a matter for the State. I do not think that it is for the Commonwealth to determine priorities. In Western Australia there are a number of very attractive potential iron ore projects, of which the Texasgulf-Hanwright project at Marandoo is one. I have had the pleasure of visiting that project and I must say that I have been impressed by the way in which the Texasgulf company has approached the project. The survey it has done with regard to communications, a rail track or a possible pipeline, and the way in which it has assessed the mining operations and the ore body have certainly been done in a very professional manner. The Goldsworthy Area C project is another very suitable project. I think it is a matter for these companies to determine how they start. They may need the assistance of the Western Australian Government for infrastructure, but again that is a matter for the Western Australian Government. 
I have made it very clear to the Western Australian Government that if new projects are to come forward and if special considerations need to be given, the Commonwealth Government would certainly look at them. Our objective is to see sound development of iron ore projects, or any sort of projects, take place in this country. 
We have made reference to our foreign investment equity guideline rules. If we cannot get the prescribed amount from Australian interests, of course we will take a higher percentage of foreign investment to get the project going. We do not want to see anything stand in the way of new projects which will add to our wealth and will be of general benefit to Australia. As far as Marandoo is concerned, of course I would like to see it go ahead, as I would like to see any other iron ore project in Western Australia go ahead. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) Information supplied to the Department of Trade and Resources by Australian firms regarding their overseas trading and investment activities, is given on the basis that it will be treated as 'commercial in confidence '. To ensure maintenance of this essential line of communication between the Department and Australian industry, it is practice not to divulge publicly such commercial information, relating to any overseas market, supplied by Australian firms to the Department. 
The matters raised in this part of the honourable member's question do not fall within my area of responsibilities and I have no information available concerning the matters raised. 
, (4), (5) and (6) The Australian Statistician has provided the following answers to parts 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the honourable members ' question: 
The following table provides details of Australia's international trade with South Africa for the years1972-73 to 1977-78 and the period July1978 to February1979. 
Details for the period July1978 to February1979 are preliminary and subject to revision. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No opinion polls or surveys have been commissioned or carried out by my Department since 1 975. 
Not applicable. 
Over a period a number of complaints have been made about the delay in meeting payments from the export market development grants which are one of the forms of incentive the Government has given to people to export. Recent articles have dealt with this matter. The delays have been caused by a number of factors. Some of the forms have been incorrectly filled in by claimants. In some cases there have been disputes between companies and the Export Development Grants Board. These factors have caused delays of about six months between the time of application and the grant being approved. 
Some of the delay has also been caused by a lack of staff since the legislation covering export market development grants was broadened to include internal services and tourism. This together with the introduction of the Export Expansion Grants Act has meant that the work load of the Export Development Grants Board has increased considerably. It was only recently that the Public Service Board agreed to a staff increase of about eleven and permission was given for the Board to get temporary staff to meet any surges. I believe we will be able to keep up with most of the requirements. 
I think we are all very pleased that we have the Minister for Commerce from Saudi Arabia with us today. I know that the honourable member for Kennedy, who has a special association with the Middle East part of the world, would be particularly glad to have him here. The visit of the Minister is in response to a visit that I made to Saudi Arabia a few months ago. He has brought with him a number of officials and businessmen to talk about furthering trade relations between our two countries. Saudi Arabia is going through a phase of enormous development which opens opportunities for extending trade and for Australian construction companies to be involved in some of the development in that part of the world. This morning I had the pleasure of initialling a trade agreement between our two countries which establishes a framework for businessmen to be able to operate with a degree of confidence knowing that they have the imprimatur of government behind them. 
For Australia a very significant trade development with Saudi Arabia has already taken place in regard to meat, particularly sheep meats and also beef, and in relation to slaughtered and chilled meat. An enormous quantity of dairy products is also imported into Saudi Arabia. Additionally the potential trade in fruit and wheat is very significant. I am hoping that Australian construction companies might also become more deeply interested in tendering for contracts for some of the development work that is taking place. Indeed, I would like to see Australian manufacturing companies looking at the prospects of joint ventures with companies in that nation. The Minister has with him a number of very senior Saudi Arabian businessmen. They will be meeting Australian businessmen in both Melbourne and Sydney. I am very hopeful that as a result of that contact there will be further development of trade and business relationships between Australia and Saudi Arabia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) Copper is one of the commodities specifically mentioned as being a subject for consideration under the proposed integrated program for commodities that has been under discussion in UNCTAD. 
At the Sixth Preparatory Meeting on Cooper (26 February to 2 March1979) the US delegation tabled a paper described as a contribution to efforts to develop a workable approach to stabilisation in the copper market. The delegation emphasised that its presentation should not be construed as committing the U.S. to a negotiating conference for an international agreement for cooper. The Meeting decided that an Intergovernmental Group of Experts, which will meet in Geneva in the period 25 June to 6 July1979, should examine the implication and effectiveness and the costs to both producers and consumers of copper, of an international arrangement for copper. The Group will be expected to take into account a number of proposals and statements which appear in the documents of the various Preparatory Meetings that have discussed copper, including the US paper. 
The US paper outlined the framework of a possible buffer stock stabilisation scheme that would have as principal objectives the reduction of copper price fluctuations and the stabilisation of copper prices around the longer term trend. The scheme would be based on a substantial international buffer stock, with a reference price to be adjusted according to maket price trends and the activity of the buffer stock. Supply and demand would determine market prices within ranges or bands above and below the reference price, these bands to be sufficiently wide to moderate cyclical price movements without interfering with seasonal or day-to-day fluctuations. 
No. The Australian Government supports multilateral action involving producers and consumers to overcome international commodity problems. The US proposal is one of a number of measures that has been put forward as a possible means of stabilising the world copper market. The Australian Government, in consultation with the Australian copper industry, is examining closely the implications of developments at the UNCTAD meetings on cooper, with a view to determining what measures, if any, would be practicable and feasible. 
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development  (Question No. 3644) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) Yes. Agreement was reached on 20 March on the fundamental elements of the Common Fund at the UN Negotiating Conference on the Common Fund. However, many problems and issues remain to be resolved in drafting the Fund 's Articles of Agreement and translating the fundamental elements into a fully functioning and viable international institution. 
The following is a summary of the agreement on the fundamental elements of the Common Fund. 
Objectives: The fund would be an effective and viable institution which should facilitate, among other things, the attainment of stable conditions in commodity trade and the conclusion of international commodity agreements (ICAs), particularly on commodities of special interest to developing countries. 
Purposes: The Fund will operate on the basis of two separate and non-supportive Windows: 
A First Window to finance buffer stocks within international commodity agreements and arrangements. 
A Second Window to finance specified 'other measures', directed towards commodity market stabilisation, in the context of producer/consumer agreements and arrangements. 
Capital Structure: The financial resources of the Fund will comprise: 
a ) Direct government contributions of US$400m for the First Window and voluntary contributions of US$350m to the Second Window. The allocation of financial contributions between individual countries has not been determined. However, there will be a minimum equal contribution of US$ 1 m per country (part of which may be allocated voluntarily to the Second Window), and assessed contributions will be allocated to the First Window in the following percentages between the UNCTAD country Groups'. 
Group of 77 (Developing Countries)- 10 percent; Group B (Developed Countries)- 68 percent; Group D (Socialist Countries of Eastern Europe)- 17 per cent; China- 5 percent. 
Resources from ICAs, comprising cash deposits and callable capital/guarantees pledged directly to the Fund by member governments of ICAs. 
Other voluntary contributions, external borrowings, and net earnings. 
Association of ICAs with the Fund: To qualify for association with the Fund, ICAs must: 
a ) be negotiated or renegotiated on the principle of joint buffer stock financing by all producers and consumers participating in the ICAs who should cover the bulk of world trade in the commodities concerned. 
Use the Fund as their only banker for their buffer stocking operations. 
Deposit one third of their maximum financial requirements (MFR) with the Fund which will provide them with credit entitlements up to their total MFRs. The deposits are to be paid either in full or in stages and will give rise to credit rights proportionately related to them. The deposits would be withdrawn when required for stock purchases. 
Assign all of their stock warrants to the Fund on modalities to be agreed. 
Additionally, callable capital/guarantees will be pledged directly to the Fund by ICA members to the value of each ICAs borrowing entitlement. The ICAs and their members should be fully responsible for servicing and repaying their borrowings from the Fund. The members of ICAs will not be liable through their callable capital/guarantees for the default of ICAs of which they are not members. 
Voting: Votes are to be allocated to Fund members on the basis of: 
a ) the equality principle 
b ) direct government contributions 
callable capital /guarantees from ICA members, within the framework of the following distribution of votes between the UNCTAD country groupings: 
Group of 77-47 per cent; Group B- 42 per cent; Group D- 8 percent; China- 3 percent. 
No group will have a simple majority of total votes. 
Decision making: Decisions will generally be taken on the basis of simple majority but there will be requirements for two levels of qualified majorities (75 per cent and 66 twothirds per cent), for some decisions, with important constitutional and significant financial questions being determined at the higher majority. 
Organisation: The Fund shall have a Governing Council, an Executive Board, a Managing Director and staff. The Governing Council will establish a Consultative Committee on the Second Window to help facilitate its operations. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. (2)12 October1978. (3)5 positions comprising: 
Chairman 
First Assistant Secretary 
Assistant Secretary 3 Principal Executive Officers (Class11 ) 2 Executive Officers (Class 9) 3 Clerks (Class 7) 
Clerical Assistant Grade 3 
Personal Secretary 
Steno-secretary Grade 2 
Steno-secretary Grade 1 
Some of these positions have yet to be filled. 
The functions of the Office are set out in my statement on uranium export policy which I made in Parliament on 1 June 1978. 
No. 
Yes. 
7 ) See my statement of 1 June1 978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 

 Mr C. W. Bonython has been appointed to the Uranium Advisory Council as a representative of the World Wildlife Fund Australia of which he is a member of the . Board of Trustees.  Mr Bonython  has a long record of involvement in environmental organisations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As negotiations with some of Australia's trading partners are still in progress and there is a need for ratification by the United States Congress of the overall settlement which has been reached in the Multilateral Trade Negotiations, it would not be appropriate to disclose at this stage the details of the concessions which have been negotiated. This will be done as soon as practicable. 
I have expressed concern on a number of occasions about the competitive position of Australian farmers as against their counterparts in other parts of the world. Where governments give concessions to their farmers for the price of fuel, naturally it makes it more difficult for our farmers to compete with them. This matter has been looked at by the Trade Development Council which has come forward with a report which I have only just received. The report, which is being studied by my Department, confirms that Australian farmers do pay a higher price for fuel than do their competitors. Of course this causes concern. What we must understand is that the world is rapidly approaching the greatest and most significant transition in its history and that in this modern technological age, which is based on an oil economy, it will have to move to some alternative forms of energy. In the meantime we have to try to ensure that our existing reserves of oil are extended for as long as possible. Oil. is a wasting resource. Therefore, Australia must do all that is possible to encourage exploration. We must look at all possible means of conserving the oil that we have available and we must intensify our efforts to look for alternative forms of fuel and energy. 
The difficulty today is that we must try to reconcile the difficulties which the Government has in making its oil last for as long as possible with our endeavours to meet some of the competing needs within the economy. The whole oil pricing situation is having a most profound effect on various countries in their domestic oil pricing arrangements. I have had discussions on this subject with Ministers in other countries, and recently I spoke about it with the Secretary of Agriculture,  Mr Bergland,  in Washington/He expressed great concern for American farmers because of the increasing oil prices in America. He could see no way other than accepting the realisation that oil prices would have to increase. While the whole of the world pricing arrangement is in a state of flux it is extremely difficult for the government of any country to know how to give preferred or preferential pricing arrangements to special sections of the community. I think all of us have to recognise that the most critical thing for Australia, which has a large mechanised agricultural industry, is to see that we have adequate supplies to keep the industry going. We have to realise that other countries around the world will be facing the same pricing problems as Australia faces. 
There has been a meeting in Paris of members of the International Energy Agency, which included my colleague the Minister for National Development, concerning oil pricing and the use of coal as an alternative to oil. They brought forward a paper on the key role of coal. As a result of that paper there has been a commitment made by IEA members that they will endeavour to convert oil-burning electric power stations to coal-fired power stations and that any new stations to be erected are to be coalfired ones. 
Australia is very pleased to be part of this commitment and to accept an undertaking by the IEA that it will consult member countries in relation to the development of coal resources. 
The paper also indicates from studies that have been made that Australian coal exports needed by the year 2000 could be of the order of 200 million tonnes per annum. This is an increase from some 30 million tonnes per annum at the moment. This will mean that there will have to be a very heavy commitment on infrastructure and transport facilities to meet this undertaking. But I think it does hold out the prospects of very significant development of Australia's coal resources and the prospects also of much greater benefits for the Australian community as a whole. We do have a very valuable energy resource and it is pleasing to see that the other member countries of the IEA are happy to work in conjunction with us in developing this great resource. 
I would have thought that the Labor Party would not want to bring this matter up, it having been the author of this levy which imposed a burden on the Australian coal industry. This Government has given an undertaking to reduce it. Already the Government has reduced the levy on soft coking coal from $2 to $1.50 and that on hard coking coal from $6 to $3.50. That is a very significant reduction and it means additional revenue for the coal mining industry. Whilst the coal mining industry might be disappointed that the Government has not found it possible to reduce it this year, it knows what the Labor Party did to the industry when in office. The industry knows that the Labor Party is all in favour of a resources tax, something which would be quite devastating to the industry in accumulating capital to carry out the vast development that is necessary. 
I can understand members of the Labor Party being acutely sensitive about this matter. They try to claim, in some roundabout way, that they are the supporters of working people- the coal miners, for instance. Yet by introducing this coal levy they disturbed the development and confidence of the industry as that industry has never been disturbed. They are doing exactly the same thing by talking about a resources tax. How can this industry achieve all its possible development- and it is going to be enormous development in this country- if it has the shadow of a resources tax held over it, as is pronounced daily by the Leader of the Opposition? As far as the Labor Party is concerned, it is out to raise as much money as it can from the coal mining industry irrespective of the consequences to those thousands of fellows who work very hard down coal mines. 
The last wheat harvest was an all-time record for Australia. Indeed, the value of that crop makes that industry far and away the biggest industry in this country in production value. However, that value can be realised only if Australia exports the great bulk of our production. In Australia we consume a relatively small proportion of the wheat we produce. Unfortunately in New South Wales there has been a good deal of disruption this year at the terminals. This has been due mainly to the issues of terminal manning and overtime. This has significantly delayed the shipments of wheat that might be exported from New South Wales. The wheat harvest in New South Wales last year was a record harvest, in line with the rest of Australia. All the terminals are full. Indeed, some of the wheat is being held on properties. Unless there can be continuity of movement of wheat along the railways and out of the terminals for export, there is going to be a very heavy carry-over next season which would limit the deliveries that wheat growers might be able to make. This would pose additional problems of trying to find on-farm storage facilities. At the moment it looks as though about 50 per cent of Australia 's six million tonnes of carry-over wheat will be in New South Wales. This will be a limiting factor on the production and delivery of wheat in that great industry in New South Wales. Tentative agreement has been reached with some of the unions. I am pleased to say that shipment rates have gone up considerably since overtime has been worked. Where it was taking a week to load a ship with 30,000 tonnes, that time has been reduced now to two or three days. I think people should be aware of the reponsibility they carry to try to assist this industry, which is earning so much revenue for Australia and which means so much to the economic well being of country areas and indeed to the whole economy of New South Wales. 
I hope the New South Wales Government will give as much attention as possible to ensuring that all facilities at the grain terminals are working, that the transport system is working, and that the elevators at the storage depots are manned so that everything works in harmony for the balance of this year. An hour's delay will only add to the problems that already exist in trying to dispose of the record wheat crop. 
We have listened to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  talking about the popularity of the Government and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I considered the popularity of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition while he was speaking. There were three disinterested members of the Opposition in the House to hear him. Now there is not one member of the Opposition here to listen to what they consider is a most important economic debate. Oh, I am pleased that two have now come back. They are the bastion of the alternative government. Two members of the Opposition are interested in economic debate. 
Members of the Labor Party can argue until the cows come home about tax surcharges, tax indexation and all the rest, but nothing can change the simple fact that the Australian nation is living beyond its means. Australians, as individuals and as families, know that they cannot keep on spending more than they earn. Yet, for some reason, many people think that the country as a whole- (Cmo/k/w  formed).  There are no Labor men in the House. It is very nice to have only members of the Liberal and National Country parties here. Really, I was hoping that there would be more Labor members here because they are the ones who need educating on the economic realities of life. 
The economic realities of this country are that the rate of government expenditure and the emerging inflationary pressures prompted action by the Government to ensure that the nation's economic management is kept on course. Economic recovery is underway and must not be jeopardised by a lack of resolution by the Government to do what must be done even at the risk of being accused by some that we are forfeiting earlier commitments. As the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has already said, when the Government looked at the estimates for the costs of the things it wanted to do in the next financial year it was faced with a deficit of $4,600m; that is, if we were to do all the things we want to do we would end up $4,600m in the red. We would spend $4,600m more than we collect. That level of over-expenditure would lead to inflationary pressures. In turn, we would have worse unemployment. Inflation is the basic cause of unemployment. Inflation is the economic monster that devours all; it is the destroyer of modern society. 
Australia's economic troubles stem basically from the implementation of the Labor Party's philosophy, which is diametrically opposed to ours. The Labor Party believes that governments can spend more than they earn. Even though the Labor Party is prepared to spend more it is not prepared to take the consequences of its actions. The strange thing is that the Labor Party still blindly denies that it, and it alone, is responsible for the economic problems of this country today. It was Labor's give-away policies and its runaway expenditure programs which created inflation and unemployment in this country. 
The Labor Party believes that there is no need for people to earn their way in life. The Labor 
Party believes that everyone is entitled to something for nothing. In other words, members of the Labor Party are big spenders and heavy taxers and they stand for big government. The death knell of democracy is big taxes and big government. We believe in maintaining democracy and free enterprise. The Labor Party believes that those who do not work and who do not feel any responsibility to make a contribution to the community have an automatic right to be supported by the workers, by the taxpayers. The people who save and invest are the people who pay the taxes. The Labor Party believes that virtually every demand can be met without worrying at all about the costs or the consequences. That is why we are still experiencing the aftermath of Labor's disastrous economic policies. 
Some basic facts of economic life need to be understood. The main thing that the Australian people are learning is that if they want things they will have to pay for them one way or the other. There is a growing realisation in our community that if spending on health, welfare and other areas continues to grow at recent rates the nation will be crippled economically. Despite the criticism which the spending restraint causes, the Government is determined to maintain downward pressures on inflation because that is the only way in which to achieve lasting economic recovery and that is the only answer to Australia 's employment problem. 
The downward pressures have to be increased in view of the renewed inflationary pressures. With the international oil price increases and with the increases in commodity prices, particularly the effects that they are having on the domestic market, it is necessary for the Government to accept its responsibility and take appropriate action. The Government had no alternative but to continue the tax surcharge and delay full tax indexation. It would have been completely irresponsible to do otherwise. No one likes to have to go back on earlier commitments. We certainly did not want to do so but we recognised that if we did not do so we would be imposing an enormous burden on the economy. It would have been foolish for the Government to implement these undertakings, at a cost of more than $1,1 00m in the next financial year, when it had to face a Budget deficit of $4,600m. 
No doubt people are disappointed that the Government has been unable to do what it wanted to do. I believe that when the people understand the situation fully they will accept that it was impossible for us to do otherwise. One thing which is not fully understood yet is that the effect of the tax decision is that people will not have to pay any increase in tax. There will be no increase in tax. The Labor Party is trying to lead people to believe there will be. The Opposition is trying to deceive the people into believing that they will be paying more tax over the next few months than they are paying now. That is simply not true. Certainly people will pay more tax than they would have paid if it had been possible to end the surcharge, but they will not be paying more than they are paying now. In fact, they will be paying a lot less than they would have been paying if the tax scales introduced by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  had still applied. 
People have to accept that governments cannot go on spending when they do not have the money. If they want the Government to spend money at the rate at which it has been spent in recent years they will have to give it more money. There is no way of meeting our commitments other than cutting government expenditure or raising more money. People are starting to understand that they cannot realistically expect the Government to meet the needs which they expect it to meet unless these requirements are met. Everyone agrees that pensioners and disadvantaged people should not be denied adequate health care. But the average person who can cope with ordinary costs should do so. It is important that everyone be safeguarded against the personal disaster which can result from a big and unexpected medical bill. This is guaranteed by the Government's payment of all scheduled medical costs in excess of $20. Most people will have private health insurance, but even those who choose not to or who feel that they cannot afford it will have access to reasonable and adequate health care. It is significant to note that despite the spending restraint already in operation virtually every group which has put a submission to the Government in recent times has said that there ought to be further restraint in government spending and has urged us to take necessary action. 
The signs of economic recovery which are emerging, whilst encouraging, carry also a warning. The encouragement is to be found in the widespread recovery which has occurred in the farming industries, in rising consumer spending in exports, in borrowings for home building, in higher investments and in increased production. The higher level of confidence in Australia is also being reflected in higher inflows of capital from overseas. The economy is showing real growth. Whilst unemployment remains too high it is significant that private sector employment has been rising since last August. Employers are now finding it possible to take on people. Encouraging progress has been made also in getting inflation down, progress which has been the springboard for the economic improvement we are now seeing. Not many other countries have shown as good a performance as ours. 
For a long time other Ministers and I have been emphasising that the only way in which we can achieve substantial and lasting reductions in interest rates is by achieving substantial and lasting reductions in the rate of inflation. To do so, we have to get the Budget deficit under control and keep a firm grip on the supply of money. It is easy for people to come forward with advice about the monetary and other policies the Government should adopt, but there is one factor about which there can be no argument, that is, that the control of inflation must remain our fundamental objective. An inflation rate out of control, as it was four years ago will frustrate any efforts to reduce interest rates and to maintain rising investment and consumption in this country. Continuing control of inflation must be achieved if economic recovery is to be soundly based and sustainable and if lasting reductions in unemployment are to result. 
It is evident that the task of getting inflation and interest rates down will become harder the further we try to go. The most recent movement in prices underlines that fact. But those movements should not distract us from our goals. To the contrary, we should reinforce our commitment to the course we have set ourselves. If anything, the movement in prices should strengthen our determination to attack inflation with every weapon we can use. There must be an unequivocal public recognition of the need for the Government to stick firmly to its policies, and that is what we are doing. It would be a tragedy if the gains we have won were thrown away. Those gains, I have to say, are fragile and they are under threat. They are threatened by the less than complete acceptance by the community of the need to continue restraint on Government spending. They are threatened by the increasing cost of energy, a threat which we must offset by a realistic attitude to the way we use energy. Those gains are threatened by the demands for substantial wage increases at a time when such increases would have only a damaging effect on the recovery now under way. 
I have already mentioned the lift in private sector employment. Sharp rises in wages at this time would be the surest way to reverse the encouraging trend in this direction. The gains we have made are certainly threatened by industrial disruption which is cutting our exports by millions of dollars and hurting Australia in the eyes of the world which looks to us as a dependable and reliable trading partner. It would be bitter irony if the greed of some sections of the work force were to lead to additional costs and to frustration of the very developments which offer expanded job opportunities to less fortunate fellow workers in the community. Every Australian must join in the effort to resist these threats that I have mentioned. There must be a clear understanding of the dangers we face if we were to be so foolish as to relax the grip now and to start the slide back into the economic stagnation we have been fighting so hard and so successfully in recent years. Whether we win this fight depends not just on governments but on every man and woman in this country recognising that certain restraints are necessary. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
We are very pleased to have  Mr Gundelach,  who is responsible for the European Economic Community's agricultural policies, in Australia with a group of officials. They are in Australia to extend the negotiations that have taken place on a bilateral basis between the EEC and Australia through my colleague, the Minister for Special Trade Representations, and also to take the opportunity to discuss world trade matters. I appreciate very much  Mr Gundelach  's being here.  His  presence is as a result of links that were established by the Prime Minister in Europe a couple of years ago, and by the Treasurer, and now by the Minister for Special Trade Representations. 
The Common Agricultural Policy is probably the single most important element affecting world trade in agriculture. It does have a profound effect on commodity prices around the world. It probably has a greater influence on Australia's international agricultural trade than anything else. We are concerned at the dimensions of government involvement in the CAP.  Mr Gundelach  has confirmed that the extent of government support has gone up three times since 1974. In that year government support was costing $4 billion. This year it will cost approximately $ 12 billion, half of which will go towards subsidising excess production of the EEC. Part of that export subsidy- almost $1 billion this yearwill go towards supporting the 3.7 million tonnes of sugar which is being dumped on the world market and which is gravely affecting the international price of sugar. This comes at a time when we have an international sugar agreement and when countries like Australia and many developing countries have been imposing disciplines on their production to try to get a strengthening of the international market. 
I have expressed concern over the Common Agricultural Policy and I am pleased to say that  Mr Gundelach  shares the totality of our concern for what is happening in Europe. He wants to see adaptation of the EEC's policies so that an end might come to the ever-growing commitment of the treasuries of Europe in supporting their agricultural policies. It is quite obvious that the extent of the European Treasuries' contributions to their agricultural policies must eventually lead to their collapsing under their own weight. So there is need for some changes. However,  Mr Gundelach  gives me encouragement when he says that enormous pressures are now developing within the member countries of the EEC for some modification and some changes. We certainly would like to see this happen because to see this matter go on indefinitely, having a disastrous effect on efficient producers such as Australia, is not to the well-being of mankind. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Commercial scale uranium enrichment plants in operation and under construction: 
For the information of honourable members, I present an agreement on Trade and Economic Relations and Technical Co-operation between the Government of Australia and the Government of the States of Bahrain concluded on 15 May 1979. 
I am very pleased that at all opening ceremonies for the 'Export Now' program, which has been taken up by all the relevant State governments, including the Northern Territory, there has been an excellent round-up of people from industry, commerce, trade unions and the public at large. I think that some 1 ,800 people have attended the various seminars. I would like also to express appreciation to the media for the way in which they have responded in bringing to the notice of the Australian people the importance of increasing our export performance. This is essential for balance of payments reasons, but it is also an area where we can increase job opportunities for people by creating greater market opportunities. 
During this year, as part of this export program, there will be over 100 seminars, workshops, case studies, et cetera, covering all aspects of exporting and looking at the possibilities of markets overseas. Already there have been some seminars covering such specialist areas as the Middle East. Some 400 people were in attendance at the special seminars in South Australia, in Victoria 470 people were in attendance and at the seminars dealing with the Arabian peninsula almost 800 people attended. Since the launching of the campaign my department's regional offices in the various capital cities have had approximately 1,800 telephone inquiries. At the regional offices there have been 650 personal inquiries by businessmen and some 300 firms have been visited by my own departmental staff, who have given advice on how these firms might get into the exporting markets. 
There is a new atmosphere developing within the manufacturing sector in going and selling overseas. This has been brought about, firstly, because of Australia's much better economic circumstances with the control of inflation; secondly, because of the adjustment of our currency rates; and thirdly, because of the incentive which the Government has given. A combination of these three factors coming together is opening up a new era for Australian manufacturing and exporting industries. I encourage them to look at the opportunities to see what success they might have. 
It is true that China is reassessing some of its development priorities. However, these are not expected to have any significant effect on Australia's trade with China. The rate of expansion of the iron ore trade might be restricted but it is expected that China will still be a very important market for Australia. 
When I returned from China last year I made the comment that if China's modernisation program were to succeed it would need the support of the mass of the people. I pointed out that to gain that support of the people it was terribly important that that modernisation program express itself in the agricultural sector where the great bulk of the people are engaged and also that it meet some of their enormous food requirements. 
It is in the area of agricultural modernisation that Australia can play a significant role. We have had two important missions go to China this year. One has returned and prepared a very good report on the development and modernisation of a sugar industry. This mission was undertaken by representatives of all sections of the sugar industry. I want to commend them for the excellence of their report. I know that the Chinese Government is similarly impressed with the recommendations which were made. A mission on livestock has also gone to China. It was made up of representatives of the Queensland, New South Wales, Victorian and South Australian governments and will be reporting on the prospects of establishing pilot and experimental farms in China. 
I expect also that the Chinese Vice-Minister for Agricultural Machinery will visit Australia this month. This is a result of our very successful trade fair that was held in Peking towards the end of last year. Various types of Australian equipment were displayed at this trade fair. All of the equipment was sold and this has led to contracts being written for more Australian equipment. I am particularly pleased to see the Chinese Vice-Minister coming to Australia so that he might get some idea of the vastness of our farming operations and how we handle them with our type of equipment. All told, I believe that there are no contracts under threat as a result of the reassessment of China's programs. I think that the potential for agricultural development, particularly contracts for machinery and consultancy work, remains very high. 
I can think of no more serious breach of promise than that where a national government breaches commitments legally entered into with another country to supply an essential energy resource for its requirements. Yet, this is exactly what the honourable member for Reid has been saying repeatedly that Labor would do. What he is saying is that he completely disregards an undertaking which a nationally elected government has entered into. This has been an issue raised twice at election time. Twice the Labor Party has been resoundingly defeated. This was one of the major issues. Yet the honourable member for Reid continues to make these threats and allegations. I would like to know what the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition is. Does he support this stand? I know of another member of the Labor Party- one of great significance, who may have some bearing on the Leader of the Opposition- who has shown a much more responsible attitude. That person is  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. He is not going to be dominated and influenced by a few radicals of the left wing movement. He understands the consequences of this country entering into sound, firm undertakings with its major trading partners. If the Opposition wants to keep making these great noises, let it go to the Federated Miscellaneous Workers Union of Australia and say that the jobs of its members are in jeopardy if it undertakes uranium development. Let the Opposition go to the Australian Workers Union and say that Mary Kathleen mines do not mean anything to it and that the jobs of the AWU's members will be scrapped as soon as it gets into office. This is exactly what the Opposition is saying. I think it is worth quoting from the first report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry where it states: 
By a generally accepted principle of international law a state which undergoes a change of government is bound by the treaties entered into on its behalf by the previous Government. However, it has long been part of the Communist view of international law that this principle has no application to a situation where the change of government is effected by a revolution of the people. 
I suppose what the Australian Labor Party is saying is that it would accept the Communist Party's interpretation of international law; that it is quite free to breach any undertaking; that it is quite prepared to suffer the risks of a loss of reputation with Australia's major trading partners in denying them this essential energy resource. I am very jealous of Australia's very high reputation as a trader and supplier, and that is what we want to maintain. Yet the Labor Party does not take that into account. Let the Labor Party tell the people of Darwin in the Northern Territory, who are looking forward to this form of development to give them a little more activity and more job opportunities, that it is going to close these mines when it comes into office. 
If the Labor Party wants this to be another major issue at the next election in 1980, let it come forward. I would have thought it had learnt its lesson in the previous two elections. But obviously a few hotheads within the Labor Party movement are going to keep it tied to these antiquated attitudes. It is strange how the left wing has this anti-uranium attitude. Yet we never hear a word about the Soviet Union or the East European countries which are pushing ahead with nuclear power generation as fast as they can. These countries realise the need for alternative forms of energy and realise that most people around the world want to have access to energy to maintain a high standard of living, to have industrial development. It is all right for a few people who want to get round in a loin cloth or to live up a tree to live without nuclear power, but the great bulk of the people look to the future so that their children can have a standard of living comparable to ours. 
People living in developing countries want a standard of living comparable with that of most of the developed countries. Let the Labor Party continue to preach its attitude that it is going to breach international commitments and see where that gets it. I do not believe the Australian people will accept its attitude. 
-One of the virtues of having  Mr Gundelach  in Australia was for us to be able to impress upon him our concern at the attitude of the EEC towards the International Sugar Agreement. This matter was raised in discussions that he had with the Cabinet, and also in personal discussions that I had with him. I know that, when he visited Queensland, members of the Queensland sugar industry took the opportunity of impressing upon him their concern at the implications of the EEC's dumping of large quantities of sugar on the world market and thus depressing it, and undermining the operations of the International Sugar Agreement. I was pleased with his reaction. He was more responsive than I had expected in that he expressed his point of view that the EEC should be a member, but he was having great difficulty in getting member countries to accept the recommendation of the Commission that they should look towards becoming members and making some quota arrangements under the International Sugar Agreement in order that some discipline might be imposed upon them. 
As a result of comments that he made to the sugar industry and to the Government, I have written to ask him to confirm those remarks and to ask that they be brought before the Commission so that action can be taken as promptly as possible for the EEC to become a member. He has repeatedly said that he will have difficulty in getting the Commission to move on this matter until the United States ratines the International Sugar Agreement. There has been a longstanding dispute between the United States Administration and members of the Senate regarding the domestic pricing arrangements for sugar in the United States. I am hopeful that that situation has been resolved. They have said that it has been resolved on a number of occasions and yet they have failed to have it ratified by Congress. However, Congress has only another month to go before it rises and I have been given firm assurances that during this latter period of its session this will be ratified. Once that has been done, I hope that the EEC will live up to its undertaking and that it will commence negotiations with the International Sugar Council and work out an arrangement which is acceptable to the members of the ISA which will impose also some limitations on the amount of sugar which the EEC is dumping onto the world market. 
Following the record wheat harvest in Australia, I think everybody is extremely gratified to see that the international wheat prices are firming up. In fact, the export price for Australian standard white wheat is now $A135 a tonne compared with $121 a tonne in February this year. Whilst I am not one to try to predict the future as to what the price for wheat might be, all the indications are that for the balance of this year the price will remain at these levels, or it might even strengthen. This year the world wheat crop seems to be down about 5 per cent or 10 per cent on the record crop of 441 million tonnes last year. Whilst stocks are at high levels around the world they are not considered to be exceptionally high in view of the food needs of the world. In fact, stocks in the United States of America, which has the major influence on international prices, tend to be down this year on what they were last year. Some other countries, such as Canada, which have substantial stocks have severe limitations on their capacity to export that stock. They have limitations on their transport systems, both rail and shipping. We have a similar problem in Australia, particularly in New South Wales, where disruptions to the loading of wheat have severely reduced our capacity to meet some of our export requirements. In fact, it seems as though we will be able to export only about 10 million tonnes of wheat this year, which means that we will have a carry-over of probably about six million tonnes. I think it is most unfortunate that these delays in the movement of wheat occurred in the earlier part of the year because they will deprive us of the very good market and price opportunities that exist at the moment. 
Regarding the International Wheat Agreement, negotiations took place under the auspices of the United Nations. These negotiations did not result in unity. I visited Canada in April this year with a view to getting together all the major wheat exporting countries. There has since been a meeting of officials of those countries so that there can be a degree of co-operation and coordination in selling programs. It has been agreed that all these countries will meet together regularly to monitor the market situation and to see that there is no undue competition on the market which would depress prices. There can be unfair competition by countries trying to get a bigger proportion of the market which leads to traditional markets of countries being taken away by other countries. This only jeopardises the overall international price situation and, in the long run, does not in any way benefit any of the major exporting countries. Whilst I would not say that this is a price fixing arrangement, I believe that there is an understanding that people who have traditional markets will maintain them. I hope that the pricing arrangements that are now fairly stable can be maintained in the future. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) and (2)1 refute any suggestion that this Government acted belatedly in trying to gain access to the EEC market for primary commodities of export interest to Australia. During the late 1 960 's and early 1 970 's, my predecessor the Rt  Hon.  John McEwen and myself as Minister for Trade and Industry highlighted the problems for Australian exports particularly primary products and strove to have special access to the EEC. Since its return to office in December 1975, the Government has maintained its long-standing policy of actively working to secure stable, fair and equitable trading conditions not only in Europe but in all existing and potential markets. We have been unceasing in our efforts both bilaterally and in relevant multilateral fora such as the GATT, to seek to obtain some moderation of the policies of the EEC which were not only resulting in severely limited market opportunities for Australia within the Community but which were also seriously disrupting our sales to third markets. It was as a result of the continued resistance of the Community to our continuing representations that the Government decided in mid 1977, to mount an intensive campaign to press our case at the highest political levels within the EC Commission and member states. To suggest that the Government acted belatedly is to ignore the facts. 
See my answer to Question No. 2984  (Hansard,  24 November 1978, page 3561). 
-Some attention has been given to this matter in the last 24 hours by the Leader of the Opposition who has made some allegations which are somewhat unfounded. I assure the House that no avgas which should not have left the country has left it. In fact, no avgas that the Government could or would want to prevent from leaving the country has left it. There have been allocations of crude oil to our refineries for refining and distribution to New Zealand and the Pacific Islands, including Fiji. This has been a traditional form of trade. To suggest, as the Leader of the Opposition has suggested, that we should prevent those sales from taking place is virtually to say that we should seize somebody else's property. Because there is a shortage here, that does not give us any right of piracy regarding avgas which is destined for another place. The prices that were cited by the 
Leader of the Opposition were not accurate. They related to different periods. 
I do not know whether to laugh or cry at the Opposition's new found interest in uranium and its concern about any actions which might take place which might interfere with the development and the prospects of this very valuable economic resource to Australia. The Australian Labor Party has not been wanting to develop uranium. 
I am glad to see that the honourable member for Reid has woken up. The mention of the word 'uranium' generally does wake him up. It is nice to know that he is still here. The Labor Party has wanted this resource left in the ground. 
Well, why is the Labor Party concerned about the partnership structure? If it is really concerned about the development of uranium, why does it not go and give some advice to South Australia where one of the greatest mineral resources in Australia - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Treasurer has provided the following information on exchange control policy as it would be applicable to the payment for Australian exports by way of deferred payments or compensatory payments. 
Where payments fur exports from Australia are to be paid for by any method other than that notified in  Gazette  No. S286 on 20 December 1978, the specific authority of the Reserve Bank is required for the export, in accordance with regulation 16(1) (b) of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations. Specific authority would also be required for payments for any imports involved in compensatory trade, where payment is to be made more than one month before expected date of arrival of the imports, upon earlier shipment, or more than six months after arrival of the imports. 
The Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations do not prescribe the arrangements acceptable for barter or compensatory payments. Exchange control policy is that each application for compensatory payment is considered on its merits; as regards prices, it would be expected that normal commercial criteria would apply to both sides of the transaction; and the value of exports would need to be consistent with the definition of 'export value ' as set out in regulation 15 of the Banking ( Foreign Exchange ) Regulations '. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Work in preparation for UNCTAD 3 was carried out in my own and other relevant Departments following the official announcement that UNCTAD S was to be held in Manila in May 1979. This work included Australian representation at relevant international meetings and, in particular, at a Special Session of the UNCTAD Trade and Development Board which was convened to consider the UNCTAD 5 Agenda. 
) No special arrangements were made for public consultation but the Department of Trade and Resources at the request of interested organisations and individuals provided information on the Conference and also attended several seminars. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australian tobacco companies do export cigarettes to a number of overseas countries but there have been no complaints of dumping by Australia from developing countries. The relevant statistics do not disclose the type of cigarettes exported from Australia nor the source of the leaf used in exported cigarettes. 
At present there are no legal restrictions on the permissible tar content of cigarettes manufactured in Australia either for local consumption or export. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In March 1979, the EEC Commission requested Australia to participate in a system of voluntary restraints to regulate the level of exports of apples to Community markets during the 1979 Southern hemisphere season. Representations were made to the Commission and, following continuing negotiations, the EEC established restraint levels for Australia and a number of other major suppliers of apples. Under this arrangement details of the individual restraint levels applied by the EEC are not being made public. However, it is expected that the arrangements will not have any significant adverse effect on Australia's exports of apples to EEC markets over the period. 
Yes. Argentina, New Zealand and South Africa, the other major off-season suppliers of apples to the EEC, are included in the EEC's voluntary restraint program but as noted in ( 1 ) above details have not been made public. Chile, which is also a significant supplier, has refused to voluntarily restrain its exports and the EEC has announced action against imports of apples from Chile by way of a total suspension of imports in the period 19 May to15 August 1979. 
No. As indicated in (1) above, Australia's export availability of apples for EEC markets during 1979 is expected to be within the restraint level applied by the EEC. 
Australia 's basic objections to any system of quantitative restraints on imports have been made clear to the EEC on many occasions. In the course of the recent discussions on apples, particular attention was drawn to our objections to the use of this kind of trade barrier in order to assist the disposal of a high level of EEC production of apples, which is the real cause of the marketing problem confronting EEC producers. The arrangements apply only to the current season and no commitments have been entered into for future years. 
Aborigines in Queensland  (Question No. 3997) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as. follows: 
and (2) Certain coated galvanised steel roofing tiles were added to Schedule A of the New Zealand Australia Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) in 1974. Schedule A is the list of goods covered by the free trade provisions of NAFTA. In December 1976 New Zealand nominated acrylic-coated galvanised steel roofing tiles for addition to Schedule A and in processing this nomination it was found that the description of the goods already Schedule. A was not accurate. Consequently goods which were intended to be on Schedule A and thus entitled to duty free entry were technically liable to a 14 per cent duty. In order to avoid any possibility of Schedule A goods paying duty the description of galvanised steel roofing tiles on Schedule A was amended and broadened in October 1977. This broader description was adopted in a situation where there was insufficient time for technical experts to determine a precise and enforceable description of the type of tile added to Schedule A in 1974, and was subject to further examination. 
In July 1978 technical information on methods of distinguishing between various types of coated galvanised steel roofing tiles became available and a description which covered those tiles added to Schedule A in 1974 but which excluded other types of tiles was agreed by Australian and New Zealand officials. This revised description was implemented on 17 August 1978. (3), (4) and (5) There is no official collection of information which would enable me to answer these questions. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
See(l). 
I am informed that there has been no change in Queensland Mines' operating schedule since my statement of 7 March 1979. 
The interviewer on the  Newsvoice  program indicated that I had stated that signature of the nuclear safeguards agreement with the Republic of Korea would clear the way for South Korea to begin negotiating contracts with the Ranger consortium and/or Queensland Mines. 
5 ) ( a ) Not by the Commonwealth Government. 
Since 7 March 1979 the Directors of Queensland Mines have reported that it is the intention of the Shikoku Electric Power Co., Inc. and Kyushu Electric Power Co., Inc. to sign a Letter of Intent with Queensland Mines to negotiate the purchase of a further substantial quantity of uranium. 
Yes. 
I am advised that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs commissioned the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies to report on the social impact on Aboriginals of mining developments in the Alligator Rivers Region. The Minister is under no statutory obligation to make such reports available to Parliament. However, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs wishes me to inform the House that it is his intention to make available to the Parliament future half-yearly reports on social impact received from the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies. He would also make available to the Parliament such other reports on social impact as he may from time to time determine. 
I understand that the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies reserves the right to make public any reports it may prepare and this policy extends to reports prepared by the Institute on social impact in the Alligator Rivers Region of the Northern Territoty. 
An agreement required pursuant to Section 43 of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 between the Northern Land Council and Queensland Mines setting out the terms and conditions for mining at Nabarlek was concluded on 22 March 1979, and a Special Mineral Lease under the Northern Territory Mining Act was granted to Queensland Mines on 23 March 1 979 by the Northern Territory Government acting on the advice of the Minister for Trade and Resources. 
After detailed study of the Queensland Mines' proposals for mining and monitoring by the Supervising Authorities concerned, the Northern Territory Minister for Mines and Energy issued an authorisation for the excavation of the open pit for the Nabarlek Project on 25 May 1979. In carrying out its mining operations Queensland Mines must meet all the conditions of the Special Mineral Lease including the appended Environmental Requirements. 
The Special Mineral Lease granted to Queensland Mines provides that transportation of yellowcake from Nabarlek shall be undertaken in a manner approved by the Supervising Authority. During the 'wet season as defined by the Supervising Authority, transportation of yellowcake from Nabarlek shall not be undertaken by surface transport outside the Project Area and within the Alligator Rivers Region except in a manner and by a route approved by the Supervising Authority. The Supervising Scientist, who is the Supervising Authority for this purpose, has asked Queensland Mines for proposals for the transportation of yellowcake and has also approached the Northern Territory Government about the matter. 
10) I am informed that no Commonwealth Department, in reviewing the Nabarlek draft environmental impact statement, made recommendations regarding transport of yellowcake from Nabarlek. The provisions outlined in (9) were imposed by the Government following its examination of the Final Environmental Impact Statement. 
See(3). 
Nationality and Employment in the Public Service (Question No. 3907) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There have been no negotiations between the Department of Trade and Resources and Minatome Australia Pty Ltd. See also the reply given by  Senator Durack  in answer to 
Senate Question No. 80S  (Hansard,  page 2171 of 16 November 1978). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to his question No. 3172 (Weekly  Hansard  for the week 4-7 June on page 3 1 43 ). 
-The coal levy is a tax that this Government does not like. It is a tax that was put on by the previous Labor Government. I venture to say that if it had continued at $6 a tonne, many of the coal mines and particularly the underground coal mines would have been out of business now and there would have been very heavy unemployment in those regions where the mines exist. Fortunately, the Government has been able to reduce that levy substantially. As there were particular problems emerging with the underground coal mines because of low profitability and with some of them getting into a loss situation we were able to make further adjustments so that the levy was reduced from $3.50 to the figure now applying of $1 a tonne. I am sure that this will be a great help to those mines on the south coast of New South Wales. 
The reduction of the levy for underground mines gives a benefit to all exporters of high grade coking coal. Even those open-cut mines in the Bowen Basin area of Queensland have underground mining operations too and so they also get the benefit. An important aspect of the decision this Government made regarding the coal levy was that all new projects established will pay, for the time being, only $ 1 a tonne. This Government wanted to avoid any hesitancy that companies might have in going ahead and bringing about more development. Certainly, the coalmining industry is one of the greatest potential areas of development for this country and it would be a pity if this levy were to jeopardise that development in any way whatsoever. I am sure that in the light of the Budget that has been brought down and with the perceptions throughout this country and overseas, companies will now come to Australia and invest huge amounts of money. If these companies saw the 
Government not taking a firm line on the management of the economy and the control of inflation, there might be some reservations on their part. But with the combination of a reduced levy and the overall general attitude towards the Budget, I believe the future for the coalmining industry is very bright. 
It is very interesting to hear the reaction of the Opposition to this question. The stock exchange is an indication of the private sector in the community. The success of the nation depends very much on the well being of the private sector, the future prospects that people see for this nation and the way in which the economy is being managed. Yesterday the 
Sydney Stock Exchange index jumped 1 1 points. The mining and metals index jumped by 80.5 points. For the all ordinary indices on the Sydney Stock Exchange the level is 50 per cent higher than it was in November 1975. 1 find it particularly satisfying that the mining and metal indices are 80 per cent higher than was the case in November 1975 when Labor left office. The Labor Government had completely depressed the confidence of the private sector of the community in investing in the expansion of industry in this country. This shows that the stock exchange is a barometer which helps people within the Australian community and abroad to decide whether they should invest in the continuing development and expansion of Australian industry. It is only in that area that we will have a chance of taking up the unemployment in this country. If the Labor Party thinks - 
My colleague the Minister for National Development has already mentioned this morning the assistance being given by way of tax measures to encourage people to use liquefied petroleum gas and compressed natural gas in motor cars. There are many other measures which are designed to try to encourage research activity into forms of energy other than the traditional oil. I think Australians can feel comforted to a degree because Australia is an energy rich country although it is not self-sufficient in oil. An alternative energy source that shows very great promise is coal. There is a joint project involving the States, the Commonwealth and the West German Government to determine whether it is feasible to convert coal to oil. The alternative with the greatest potential- it is of great significance- is the discovery of oil shale in Queensland. There are two deposits, at Rundle and Julia Creek. The Rundle one is of great significance world-wide. The present proven and inferred reserves of oil there would double Australia's present reserves. The two Australian companies which hold the leases are at the moment carrying out negotiations to ascertain how best to develop this huge deposit of oil shale. If the project is a feasible one it will run into an investment of about $2,000m, which would put it in the same category as the North West Shelf gas fields, so it is very important. 
The Prime Minister, in announcing his energy statement in June, said that we would be giving help to the companies to overcome problems and difficulties by forming a special task group of departments. It is working in close consultation with these companies to handle problems that arise. We are also consulting closely with the Queensland Government to see what can be done. At the moment it certainly appears to be an attractive proposition and I hope it will not be long before some firm proposals can come forward. As far as the Government is concerned, where possible we want to encourage and assist these sorts of developments. 
Pursuant to section 41 of the Export Market Development Grants Act 1974 and section 20 of the Export Expansion Grants Act 1978 I present the report of the Export Development Grants Board for the year ended 30 June 1979. 
-! do not think that it is inappropriate to say that, if the death of Lord Mountbatten was caused by a terrorist bomb, the troubles which have plagued Ireland for so long have claimed the life of yet another British soldier. Every life lost in Ireland as a result of long years of bitterness is part of the on-going tragedy of that land. Yet there is something especially tragic, especially repugnant, when a man of such distinction and honour is murdered by people simply because the loss of such a man's life would give them the publicity they sought. The tragedy is compounded when so many others, including family members, die or suffer as a result of such a shocking attack. On behalf of my party colleagues and, I believe, of many people throughout the community, I join in this expression of sorrow at the death of Lord Louis Mountbatten. 
Lord Mountbatten 's achievements resulted not from his noble birth, but from his intelligence, his skill, his dedication and hard work and his powerful sense of public duty. He was a striking man, a man who captured the imagination. Yet he was essentially a practical man, a soldier and a statesman. He did not merely inherit his station in life; he earned it. He reflected great credit on the Royal Family. By his closeness to it he helped the Royal Family in many ways, not least by his bearing, his demeanour and his devotion to public service. Many Australians had respect and even affection for Lord Mountbatten and I know that their reaction to the tragedy in Ireland yesterday will be one not only of shock but also of very deep regret and loss. Therefore my party joins with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in expressing sorrow to the Mountbatten family. 
-The announcement by Comalco Ltd in the last couple of days that it has finalised the financing arrangements for the smelter at Gladstone and also that it will double the capacity of the smelter is really great news for Queensland and very great news for Australia. Comalco already is involved with other companies in mining operations. The Weipa bauxite mine is the biggest such mine in the world and the alumina company at Gladstone is the biggest alumina company in the world. When this new smelter project is completed and with the doubling of the present program there will be about $ 1 ,000m invested. It will be one of the world's largest smelters. All this development is part of an impressive and significant series of announcements that has been made this year by international aluminium companies of their intention to invest in Australia. They see Australia as a country with the basic resources and with supplies of cheap energy. Above all, they see Australia as a nation with a government that is demonstrating sound economic management and as a nation which is applying itself to controlling inflationary pressures. Australia is definitely a more attractive place in which to invest than many other pans of the world, and those companies are able to select the country they will invest in. 
Let us look at what has happened in the last few days. Alcan Australia Ltd is going to expand its Kurri Kurri plant in New South Wales. Alcoa of Australia Ltd is going to expand the Port Henry development in Victoria. The Pechiney company is going to build a smelter in the Hunter Valley in New South Wales. I do not hear the Australian Labor Party saying much about that project. The Alumax company is going to build a smelter near Newcastle. Also, Alcan and Nabalco Pty Ltd are studying the possibility of establishing other smelters. When all these projects are commenced about 5,000 more people will be given jobs during the construction stage, and when they are fully in operation about 3,000 people will have permanent employment. There will also be support industries and downstream activities which will mean jobs for thousands more people. This is vindicating the Government's strategy of developing a sound, basic structure for the economy to attract investment both locally and from overseas so that we can give more employment opportunities to people in this country. 
Our policies are succeeding. As I said, these aluminium smelters will give enormous benefits to Australia. Our present exports of aluminium are worth about $80m a year and that figure will rise to over $ 1,000m a year. We will be doing more processing, our balance of payments situation will be strengthening and there will be many more job opportunities. 
In addition, there is great activity in the coal mining and electricity industries, which are responding to the requirements of the aluminium industry. The New South Wales Government, a Labor government, certainly has not been backward in seeking foreign investment for New South Wales. There certainly seems to be no guidelines for investment in that State. The State Government has given a preference to Pechiney over CSR Ltd, a well established Australian company, in the allocation of electricity. These members of the Labor Party who are squealing and complaining about the Government's attitudes to foreign investment ought to look at what some of their friends are doing in New South Wales. 
-This Government has always made it clear that the responsibility for waste material from nuclear reactors is that of the country that produces the waste material. 
After we have listened to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  there certainly is a need to put this debate back into its proper perspective and to recognise the major issues that centre on this most important document that the Government brings forward each year. I believe that this Budget provides the structure and the foundation for the sound running of our economy for the next 12 months. It meets essential social needs and business requirements, but its prime objective is to front the nation up to the growing inflation threat- a threat which is intensifying, for various reasons, both external and internal, and which must therefore be a preoccupation of a responsible national government. To disregard or to ignore it would be to leave this country in peril. 
This fundamental evil of inflation must be resisted if we are to protect our living standards, if we are to protect our free enterprise way of life. Every student of history knows that a complacent or negligent attitude to inflation leads to social and economic upheaval. Every trained anarchist or communist knows only too well that there is no surer or more effective way to discredit authority than to unleash the powers of inflation. To do so is to bring all the forces of destruction together, and it does it in a manner which few people are able to identify. This Government will not sidestep its responsibility in acknowledging the difficulties of inflation. It will resist it; it will fight it. The Government will not betray the nation on the question of inflation. 
I might add that this is in direct contrast to the Labor Party, which in one of the most deplorable and blatant acts of delinquency has now abandoned any recognition of inflation. At the Adelaide conference of the Australian Labor Party, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  was prepared to accept economic resolutions which made no reference to inflation. To drop inflation is to cast aside the central disciplining factor in any responsible and coherent policy on sound economic management. For that, members of the Labor Party must be branded as worthless and discredited economic managers. Surely one might have expected them to learn from their experiences in government. The Labor Government, in three years, lifted the inflation rate from 4Vi per cent to 17 per cent. That inflation created the unemployment problem and the economic difficulties from which this country now suffers. Apparently that experience has had no impact on members of the Labor Party, or they just do not care. Certainly, the Leader of the Opposition and other Opposition speakers have shown no inclination in this debate to acknowledge the serious inflation problems facing Australia and the world at large. 
One of the favourite words of the Leader of the Opposition is 'dishonesty'. Almost every sentence he utters contains an attack on someone's honesty. Perhaps it is time we had a look at the Labor Party's honesty, or lack of it. The main matter with which I want to deal in this speech is the Labor Party's outright dishonesty in what it is encouraging members of the Australian community to believe about their living standards. I will come back to that in more detail in a minute. 
Let us have a look at a few other things. Ever since the Budget was brought down nine days ago, the Labor Party has been claiming that there will be no tax reduction whatsoever as a result of the Budget. Yet on Tuesday night the Leader of the Opposition, in his typical fashion, and to suit his own purposes, admitted that people on various incomes would get specific tax cuts after 1 December. We heard the Leader of the Opposition complaining loudly in one breath that this is the highest tax government in Australia's history; and then in the next breath telling us that the Labor government under him would increase taxes by $ 1,500m a year. What breathtaking honesty! How much honesty do we get from the Labor Party about unemployment? 
Unemployment is an extremely difficult and worrying problem for most Australians. There is no less concern by the Government than there is by the Opposition about the question of unemployment. It is just that we have a different approach to the problem. What the Labor Party has never yet admitted is that there is only one way to solve the unemployment problem on a lasting basis, and that is to rebuild a strong and growing private sector- the sector where jobs are. Prosperous, profitable and growing companies provide jobs; unprofitable ones do not. The Labor Party, for cynical political purposes, prefers to mislead the community into believing that unemployment can be solved by the magic of money. That is a dishonest, dangerous deception, and it must be exposed at every opportunity. It is nothing more than a myth. No democratic government has ever been able to spend its way out of its unemployment problems. 
The Labor Party never mentions the fact that Australia has provided a million more jobs for its people in the last 10 years- a 20 per cent increase. It never mentions the fact that a high proportion of our population- higher than ever before- is in our work force, and today is seeking to enter the work force. It is difficult, therefore, for everyone to be provided with a job. The Labor Party never mentions the fact that in the last 12 months the level of employment has risen by 64,000 jobs. It would be stretching the Labor Party's capacity for honesty too far to expect it to acknowledge any of these things. 
The Labor Party attacks the Budget because it is 'a Budget for business'. What is wrong with a Budget for business? A Budget for business is a Budget for the unemployed. It seems to be beyond the mental capacity of anyone in the Labor Party to grasp the basic and immensely important fact that we can beat unemployment only by rebuilding the capacity of business and industry to provide jobs. The Labor Party, locked in the ideological shackles of the past, simply cannot come to grips with this basic fact. Yet if it is not grasped by the Australian community as a whole, this country is in for problems far worse than anything it has seen. The Labor Party, in its unwillingness to grapple with unpopular policies, has thrown in the towel as far as inflation is concerned. There is no mention of inflation and the Labor Party does not seem concerned about fighting it. This is Labor's new economic policy. This abdication of responsibility must, in the mind of every thinking Australian, utterly disqualify the Labor Party from any chance of once again getting its hands on the economic controls of this country. The Labor Party is now perpetrating the most destructive dishonesty of all; that is, that one can learn to live with inflation. 
That evil philosophy must be rejected out of hand. 
Let me come now to the form of dishonesty by the Labor Party which I believe contains the seeds of the greatest damage to the people of this nation. Almost every night the people of this country see on their television screens the Leader of the Opposition and his so-called mate, the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, telling them that their living standards are falling. This idea that living standards are falling is being drummed into people's heads day after day, night after night. The Labor Party is making this the basis of its campaign for the next Federal elections. People ought to know why this is happening so that they can judge whether what they are being told is fact or merely part of a political propaganda exercise. Certainly, if they know it is a political propaganda exercise, they will be more likely to think about the matter instead of merely accepting it at face value. 
This campaign might suit Labor's cynical political objectives but it has the most dangerous implications for the future of this nation. In fact, the end result of it could well be the exact opposite of what the Australian people want. The end result of this deliberate brain-washing exercise by the Labor Party could, in fact, be a real decline in living standards in this country. This political charlatanism by the Labor Party could, if it succeeds, do immense damage to the living standards of the Australian people. This country has living standards amongst the highest in the world. Its work force enjoys very high wages and very favourable working conditions. But if the Labor Party's campaign succeeds those benefits will be threatened and even lost. It is blantant inexcusable dishonesty to tell people they can expect a constantly rising standard of living and constantly rising incomes without a growing and prosperous industrial employing base. Of course, we all want living standards to keep on rising. Everyone is entitled to aspire to that goal. Australia, perhaps more than any other country in the world, has opened up for its people that prospect. 
Australia has the potential to lift its living standards for its people and its industrial and resource base widens the opportunity every day. This is now happening. There is a tremendous resurgence of resource development taking place in this country. But what must be seen as the worst dishonesty and hypocrisy is the proposition that the Labor Party constantly asserts, that is, that no matter what the rate of growth of the economy, no matter what the profitability of business, no matter what the amount of industrial disruption, no matter what the loss of productivity is caused by these strikes the wage and salary earner has an unchallengeable right to expect his income and living standards to rise continually. That is a confidence trick of the first order, a confidence trick which the Labor Party is playing on the people of this country. But the dishonesty and hypocrisy go much deeper than that. Not only does the Labor Party say that wages and living standards must rise continually, come what may, but it goes further and says something that is very cruel and very callous as well. The Labor Party says that no matter how many people cannot find jobs, those people who do have jobs- well paid jobs with some of the best conditions in the world- must receive constantly rising incomes and enjoy constantly rising living standards. Let me repeat that, because nothing more clearly exposes the utter hypocrisy and blantant dishonesty of this whole propaganda campaign. The Labor Party says that no matter how many people are out of work, those who do have jobs should get more and more and more pay, thus making it harder for the unemployed to find work. What a heartless, callous attitude by a party which professes to be concerned about people's welfare. 
Many of us recall what a former Labor Treasurer had to say about this matter. He was a man with a great deal more honesty and integrity and a great deal more humanity than the members of the Opposition seem to have today.  Mr Frank  Crean, when Treasurer, said: 
One man's pay rise is another man 's job. 
That is true. It is a truth that the present members of the Labor Party are well aware of and understand, but which they are prepared callously and deliberately to ignore because it gets in the way of their propaganda campaign. The Labor Party's claim is that its concern for the unemployed is completely destroyed when it says everyone who has a job should get continuing pay rises no matter what the economic situation. The Labor Party knows that this will make it harder for the unemployed to find work. The Labor Party knows that the chances of school leavers finding a job will be seriously reduced. Yet the Labor Party, for purposes of political expediency, continues to push this dangerous line that people who already enjoy wages and conditions- as I said, amongst the best in the world- are entitled to continual improvements no matter what the economic situation, no matter what the capacity of the economy to provide those improvements and, worst of all, no matter how much more difficult it makes the plight of the unemployed. Any party or any political leader who claims a concern for the unemployed and, in the same breath, espouses the view that can only be harmful to the unemployed cannot be trusted with the responsibility of managing the economy of this country. The Leader of the Opposition's claim to be concerned for the unemployed is completely destroyed out of his own mouth. 
On Monday, the Leader of the Opposition and  Mr Hawke  and  Mr Wran,  the three bright lights, the three big stars, the drawcards of the Labor Party, addressed what was to be a massive Budget protest rally in Sydney. The reports in the newspapers said that the attendance at this gigantic rally ranged from 2,000 to 4,000 people. It looked much less on television. But, this mass rally attended by one-thousandth of the population of Sydney- even this minuscule proportion of Sydney's population- consisted to a large degree of workers who walked off the job and went on strike to attend this meeting. What did they hear when they got there? They heard these Labor leading lights planting in their minds the belief that they need not worry about the effects of their own pay increases on their unemployed mates. All they need worry about is protecting and increasing their own already high incomes and good living standards. Nothing, so the Labor Party says, should be allowed to stand in the way of pay increases, even pay increases beyond the capacity of the economy or even pay increases that are going to make the unemployment situation worse. This is where the real danger lies. 
If the people of Australia believe the Labor Party's propaganda, they will come to expect that the country can afford to give them more pay, better working conditions, shorter working hours and rising living standards, even though the very fact that they get those benefits will place in jeopardy Australia's continuing economic recovery. This sort of cargo-cult mentality that the Labor Party is perpetrating on the Australian people must be exposed for the evil that it is. It is political deception and political dishonesty of the worst type. Australians must recognise and accept that they can only enjoy benefits if the economy grows strongly enough, if the business and industry sections of the community are prosperous and expanding and if we keep inflation under control and remain competitive on the world market. This is what the Budget aims to achieve. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
In relation to the latter part of the honourable member's question, the Government will not be tabling the final outcome of the MTN round until the whole of Australia's negotiations have been concluded and that conclusion will be upon the presentation of the most recently considered package to the United States Government, which has not yet occurred. 
It is true that some readjustments have been made to the settlement that was reached between Australia and the United States concerning the global allocation by America on beef imports. Under the MTN round, Australia achieved a firm floor quota of 1.2 billion lb of meat. That quota is registered with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and it is absolutely final. It is a binding arrangement between Australia and the United States. But, over and above that quota, we sought a quota of 1.3 billion lb should countercyclical legislation be brought into being. At the time of the negotiations that was only talked of. Since the completion of the negotiations, the American Congress has agreed to introducing countercyclical legislation. The Administration has agreed to imports of 1.25 billion lb of meat which is a decline of 50m lbs on what it had assured us it would try to obtain from the Congress. It was not final. It was merely an assurance to the Australian Government that the Administration would aim to agree on the level we sought. The Australian allocation of beef into the United States will drop by about 4 per cent should the countercyclical legislation come into being. 
I am pleased to say that, as a result of the discussions that have taken place, there have been some adjustments of concessions which are of benefit to the dairy industry and also affecting paper exports from the United States. Furthermore, we have an assurance from the United States Government that should the countercyclical legislation result in imports below 1.3 billion lb there will be room for further adjustments in the future. All told, we have a very satisfactory arrangement. I do not think that people realise how important the binding arrangement that we have with the United States is. For the first time in the history of this country, we have assured access to the United States markets. Until the MTN round was concluded there was never any certainty or security for the Australian beef industry. This arrangement is a wonderful addition to our quota and it provides for the Australian meat industry a security which it has never previously achieved. 
I answered a question previously- I am not sure whether it was the honourable member who asked it- about the policy relating to the divestment of the Government's interest in the Ranger project. On that occasion I said that the Government was exploring the opportunities for selling off its interest in Ranger Uranium Mines Pty Ltd and that it was examining the possibilities. Since the announcement was made, approximately 50 companies have expressed an interest in purchasing the Government's shareholding in that joint venture. At this point I wish to make it perfectly clear that in examining the market value of the mine, it is not the Government's intention to put any barriers, limitations or preferences in the way of people making offers. Ultimately, when all of the offers have been made and the Government examines them, the Government will have to look at the implications from the points of view of marketing, Australia's equity guideline rules and the political problems that might be involved. It is most important to get some assessment of what people believe the value of the mine to be. 
I note that some criticism has been reported in the newspapers today that insufficient information has been provided to some people for them to make an assessment of the true value of the mine. It is true that the amount of information that has been given to these people by my Department is limited. That is because of an understanding with the other partners in the Ranger project about confidentiality. Most of the people to whom we have provided information are satisfied that the information is sufficient for them to make a judgment at this early stage. However, if a short list is to be examined, of course the companies involved would need to be given all of the detailed information that is available to the Government to provide. 
For the Opposition to be concerned about this project is rather ludicrous. At the moment it seems to say that the Government should not be stepping out of the project but at the same time it does not want the Government to develop uranium. It is a real miser's attitude- keep it in the ground and do nothing with it. Of course, this is the attitude of the South Australian Government which is causing so much concern in South Australia. There is great concern in South Australia about the stagnancy of the economy. The potential for giving a filip to the economy of South Australia depends very much upon the development of resources. 
-The success of the Government's anti-inflationary policy is showing up in many sections of the community. Probably the most successful area has been the revival of our export performance, especially in manufacturing, which was referred to by my colleague, the Minister for Industry and Commerce, a few minutes ago. Exports of manufactures this year have jumped by about 3 1 per cent. This has happened only because of the competitive position that has been achieved. The decision of the Congress of the Australian Council of Trade Unions was to seek an immediate 8 per cent increase in wages. That would mean virtually an increase of about 12 per cent for industry. The loadings that companies have to pay on salaries in the form of payroll tax, workers compensation premiums and other payments contribute almost another 50 per cent to wage costs. 
If the decision of the ACTU Congress were to be implemented it would make it extremely difficult for Australian industry to keep up the export performance that has been going so well. We have had a national campaign of 'Export Now'. A wide range of incentives has been given to industry by the Government. All these are having their effect. If we return to a steep inflationary spiral and experience inflation greater than that of our competitors around the world I venture to say that the export performance will fall off significantly. 
Another thing one has to worry about is the development of our resources. There has been a tremendous resurgence of attention around the world in developing Australia's mining and processing industries. Thousands of millions of dollars will flow into this country in the next year or so to develop these industries. This will happen only because the world can see that this country's economy is being managed soundly and that our inflation rate is being kept at a level below that of other countries. If the inflationary spiral resumes as a result of rapid wage increases which now seem to be the policy of the Australian Labor Party and the ACTU, this country will be back in real difficulties. It is all right for the ACTU to espouse high wage increases, but it seems to forget that there are people in this country looking for jobs. Many business people want to expand and give job opportunities to people. Certainly the actions of members of the ACTU show how false their words are when they talk about unemployment. To increase wages in the way they are seeking would do disastrous harm to the opportunities to solve unemployment in this country. 
It helps. Obviously, the Leader of the Opposition does not think. At a time when Australia has had a record wheat crop and the world market situation is extremely favourable, with excellent prices, it is rather tragic that there is so much industrial disruption of the movement of wheat out of this country. Indeed, at the moment, there are four major industrial strikes which are preventing the loading of wheat. There is a disruption in Western Australia which is a dispute with the Waterside 
Workers Federation of Australia which has been going on now for six or seven weeks. There is also a dispute with the country silo workers in New South Wales which is imposing a ban on overtime and limiting the supply of wheat to the terminals. There is also a shipping clerks' strike in Sydney and there is a tally clerks' and timekeepers' strike in Sydney in which they have imposed overtime bans. 
Up to date the wheat industry has lost almost a million tonnes in its shipping program. If these strikes continue about another l.S million tonnes will be lost. To give the House some idea of the seriousness of the situation, for each million tonnes that is lost it costs the Australian wheat industry and, indeed, the nation about $150m. Therefore, it is understandable that within the wheat industry and country areas of Australia bitter resentment is building up against the unions, which are causing a delay in payments to the industry and causing additional costs. This resentment and anger will explode if the situation does not improve. 
I can well understand the feeling of wheat growers across the country. They have to take seasonal risks and price risks and they work exceedingly hard only to find that selfish people in unions have no consideration for their fellow Australian or for the national economy when they carry on in the way they are. When the nation is wanting to improve its export performance, when we all have aspirations for a better way of life and when we want to do more for the unemployed in this country, a few unions in critical positions are causing these terrible delays. Unless more reason is shown by these unions and the present situation ceases I hate to think what the eventual reaction of the country people will be. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the first report of the Uranium Advisory Council 1978-79 and I seek leave to make a statement relating to this report. 
Leave granted. 
-For the information of honourable members I have pleasure in tabling the first report of the Uranium Advisory Council covering the operations of the Council for the period ended 30 June 1979. Honourable members will remember that one of the principal recommendations of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry was that a uranium advisory council should be established to advise the Government and report to Parliament with regard to the export and use of Austraiian uranium having in mind the hazards, dangers and problems of and associated with the production of nuclear energy. The terms of reference of the Council and the groups from which representation would be drawn were set out in my statement to the Parliament on 10 April 1978. 
On 24 November 1978 I was pleased to announce the names of the distinguished group of Australians who would serve on the Council under the Chairmanship of  Sir Laurence  Mclntyre. The Council held its inaugural meeting in January 1979 and has met regularly since. As honourable members will see from the report, the Council has been most industrious in informing itself on issues related to the nuclear fuel cycle and it has had already initiated studies of several issues which it sees as relevant to the development of the uranium industry in Australia. I look forward to receiving its reports on these studies. 
In its first report, the Council has drawn attention to the question of communications between itself and the Government. In the initial stages of any independent advisory body there will be an inevitable settling-in period during which the relationship between the advisory body and the Government is developed. The Government notes the Council's desire to be kept closely informed on areas where Government decisions might be made in the future and I have drawn the Council's comments in this regard to the attention of my ministerial colleagues. The extensive briefings provided to the Council by departments and related statutory bodies, referred to in the Council's report, reflect the Government's desire that the Uranium Advisory Council be fully informed on matters of Government policy. I have already asked the Council for its views on the possibility of the Government disposing of its interests in the Ranger uranium project. I will refer to this aspect later. I am also referring to the Council the final environmental impact statements of Pancontinental Mining Ltd and Noranda Australia Ltd, when prepared, together with any comments, suggestions and recommendations provided by the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  under the environmental protection administrative procedures. 
In formulating the role and functions of the Uranium Advisory Council, the Government was conscious of the suggestion of the Ranger inquiry that the Council should have a substantial  degree of independence and be able to undertake periodic reviews of Government policy. In this regard the Government has been expecting that the Council will be self-motivated in pursuing the role envisaged for it by the Ranger inquiry. I also would wish to see the Council take up the suggestion of the Ranger inquiry that the Council could provide accurate information to the public in order that the public may be kept fully informed. I consider that the Uranium Advisory Council has an important role to play which will not only involve it in responding to matters referred to it by the Government from time to time, but also will require the Council to demonstrate a significant measure of initiative in order to establish the level of public confidence envisaged by the Ranger inquiry. 
In relation to the Ranger uranium project, honourable members are aware that the Government is examining proposals for the acquisition of its interests in the project. As I indicated in answer to a question by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  on 21 August, the Government has not yet decided whether or not it will dispose of its interests in that project. That decision will not be taken until we have an opportunity to examine proposals submitted by companies. I also mention that I have asked my Department to investigate the possibility of divesting the Government's shareholding in Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd. As I have mentioned, I asked the Uranium Advisory Council for its views on the possibility of the Government disposing of its interests in the Ranger project. The Council has advised me in a letter dated 22 August 1979 that the prevailing view of the Council is that the Government should continue to retain a substantial interest in Ranger with most members believing that the Government should not at present contemplate selling any of its share. However, in its letter the Council does indicate that some members have suggested that, whilst any sale of the Government's interest in whole or in part, if there is to be a decision to sell, should be made for the most part to an Australian consortium, it would be appropriate to allow some overseas buyers to acquire a minority interest. 
The Council goes on to say that, if the Government does decide not to sell, it should establish a separate commercial authority to take over the management of its interest -from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, leaving the Commission to carry out its nuclear and other energy research and advisory functions. I seek leave to have the full text of the letter from the Council incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The letter read as follows- 

-The Government will be proceeding to examine proposals submitted by companies for acquisition of the Government's interests in Ranger. The views of the Council will be taken into account by the Government when it finally takes a decision on this matter, but as the Council has noted the decision is ultimately a political decision. In its letter the Council does refer to environmental, safety and other controls and regulations on uranium development. I will be asking the Council to examine this aspect more closely and to advise me whether it sees any particular difficulties in this area. The Government has received about 50 expressions of interest in acquiring the Government's interests in the Ranger project. As I previously advised the House, this interest exposes the falseness of the argument of those people who say that there is no market for or interest in uranium. Indeed, the market outlook for uranium over the balance of this century is very encouraging. Over 800 reactors are either operating, under construction, ordered or planned in some 47 countries. I have been advised by the Australian Uranium Export Office that the demand for natural uranium is expected to increase from 37,000 short tons U308 this year to about 100,000 short tons U3Os in 1990. Indeed, in regard to the period beyond the late 1980s, the question is not whether there will be a market for uranium but whether there will be a productive capacity available to meet the requirements of the reactors then in use. There can be no question that the orderly development now of the Australian uranium mining industry will not only bring economic benefits to this country, both over the next decade and beyond, but also it will make an essential contribution to world energy requirements to the overall betterment of future international economic stability and prosperity. I present the following paper: 
Uranium Advisory Council First Report- Ministerial Statement, 13 September 1979. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of Trade and Resources for the year 1978-79. 
-I am aware that the tanning industry in Australia has been very upset at the very strict restrictions imposed by Japan on leather imports. It has been applying them for many years. However, earlier this year negotiations between Japan and the United States of America resulted in limited access to United States tanners. Since May this year officers of the Department of Trade and Resources have been trying to reach an agreement with Japan so that our tanners might get some access to that market. Up to date we have not been able to come to any settlement with Japan but I would like to have it registered that I would consider it very undesirable if United States tanners were to be given a preferred position over Australian tanners. For that reason we are continuing with our negotiations in the hope that we can be given similar treatment. 

 -The Deputy Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in proposing this matter of public importance is trying to discredit the Government's negotiating performance at the round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations and he is trying to heap confusion and concern on the minds of people involved in certain sections of Australian industry. If anything, his effort today really displays his own lack of knowledge. He has not kept himself as well informed of what is going on as he might have. I am very pleased to have this opportunity to speak so that some of those people who might be confused will know how eminently successful the Australian Government has been in the course of these negotiations and in what it has achieved for Australia. What are negotiations of this nature? They are negotiations by Australia to seek certain benefits such as access to markets at the lowest possible price. Although we have to give concessions, naturally we want to keep them as minimal as possible. By the same token, we want to achieve our objectives of lower tariffs round the world and of getting access to markets. What we have done has been of immense importance and value to the Australian export industries and it has had a negligible effect on Australian domestic industry. 
We have maintained a consistent policy approach and we have continued to make information available to the Australian public during the negotiations and when we have been in a position to notify the public of what has been going on. We have accepted the challenge to become involved in the Multilateral Trade Negotiations round to try to liberalise international trade. As Australia is a major trading nation it is important that we do everything possible to keep international trade flowing. Our major objective in these negotiations, which have been continuing since 1972, has been to achieve a greater liberalisation of agricultural trade- to get greater access to the North American market, to Japan and into the European Economic Community. We have used whatever political weight and influence we have to try to get a recognition of our point of view. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has made some play on the fact that a number of Ministers have been involved in making comments related to these negotiations. If we can get a benefit from a visit by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to Europe, to the United States or Japan then why not take advantage of his position which enables him to exercise great influence on other governments? Within the EEC in which we have needed to do immense lobbying to have our point of view accepted we have had a special Minister who has devoted a great deal of time to becoming acquainted and familiar with the people who make the decisions in Europe. A lot of homework was necessary on Europe because it was during the three years of the Labor regime that Australia was almost entirely shut out of Europe. Of course it was during that period that we were also shut out of Japan. In 1974 Japan completely shut out our beef. 
-Listen to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition making those inane comments. Australia, as well as the whole world, has been shut out from exporting hides into Japan. But it was during the Labor Government of 1974 that Australia was actually shut out of Japan. Diplomacy was required to get our points of view registered and heard in order to establish a new relationship with these countries and today, we have that situation. I quite frankly admit that the result of negotiations, particularly as far as agriculture is concerned, has not been as good as we hoped. But at least we made some progressvery valuable progress. Most significant gains have been made for Australia's biggest single industry- the beef industry. This year it is producing something like $2,500m worth of produce. A few years ago the beef industry was in a terrible state because it could not get rid of its produce. There was a reduction in the amount of produce it could get into the United States; it was practically shut out of the EEC and Japan. The industry was in a terrible situation of oversupply and ruinously low prices. But as a result of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations we have made the most remarkable achievement for the Australian cattle industry. It is the most significant thing that has ever happened for Australia's cattle industry. Bear in mind that this year it is Australia 's biggest industry. 
What have we achieved? We have achieved guaranteed access to the markets of the United States, the EEC and Japan and soon I hope to be able to finalise arrangements with Canada for a quantity of Australian meat to go in to its market no matter what the circumstances. In other words, a minimum amount of meat can be sold through those markets. If all the export quotas were reduced to the minimum amount it would account for approximately 70 per cent of Australia's beef exports. That is a remarkable and wonderful security for the beef industry. The industry has never before had anything like that. It always has been completely exposed and vulnerable to the closing off of overseas markets as we saw during the period Labor was in office. But now we have a guaranteed access for a minimum amount and that has been the biggest achievement in the Multilateral Trade Negotiations. We placed a good deal of emphasis on the industry because it was in a tremendously desperate situation and needed some form of security for the future. It now has arrangement that will cover it for the next 10 years, for the decade of the 1980s. I hope the people associated with and dependent on the Australian cattle industry appreciate what the Australian Government has done. As well we have accomplished other smaller things. 
I will discuss the concessions in a minute. 
That is adequate to cope with the honourable member when I tell him what some of the concessions are. We have concessions that will help the dairy industry. One concession involves an increase of the cheese quota into the EEC and the United States. Previously we had a quota of only 1,600 tonnes in to the United States whereas now we have a quota of 4,000 tonnes. What about wool? Since the beginning of this century we have been arguing and fighting with the United States for reduction in the wool duty. As a result of those negotiations we have a 60 per cent reduction in the tariff level on wool and I hope that the revival of, and the additional sales of wool to, the United States market will be worth a lot to the Australian industry. The United States market is one of the biggest markets in the world but manufacturers virtually ceased to use our wool because of the deterrent of the higher duty on wool imports. We have been able to get many other useful benefits in course of the negotiations including quotas on fresh fruits, dried fruits, canned fruits, meat offals, wheat gluten and beef tallow which although relatively small benefits are important to our industries. 
We have endeavoured to keep the Australian public informed on these negotiations. It all started in 1972 in informal discussions in Geneva when officers of my then Department indicated their willingness to participate in these great international talks which were to take place. In 1973 the Tokyo declaration was made and since then there has been progressive development. I felt that in Australia there was a bipartisan approach to the international negotiations but obviously the Department Leader of the Opposition is trying to make some political capital out of them. Last year a major statement was made on Australia's new approach to the negotiations. We were prepared to enter into them on the formula approach. In other words, we were prepared to trade a 40 per cent across the board tariff cut, if that was necessary, with certain qualifications. This year after major negotiations which I was invloved in had taken place, I made a statement to the House on the progress up to that stage. The Prime Minister and the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland ) made statements on 9 May this year. I have made Press statements concerning the code and had provided to industry information which I will mention in a minute. 
Honourable members might well ask what we have paid to get the benefits for which I have asked. We have given concessions. Basically, those concessions have amounted to a binding of existing levels of tariff. In other words, we have been able to get the full benefit of the 25 per cent across-the-board tariff cut that the Labor Government inflicted upon industry in 1974. We have negotiated to get the full benefit of that tariff cut. As a result, not one single industrial tariff will be reduced. We have bound approximately 120 items. That has been the price that we have had to pay. There has been no reduction at all in industrial tariffs. There have been a few reductions in non-industrial tariffs but we have not had to pay any price. All we have done is frozen approximately 120 items. There will be no tariff cuts on industrial items. I said initially that the whole purpose of negotiations is to try to get the best benefit at the least price. Honourable members must acclaim that we have done a magnificent job in our negotiations when we have come out of them without having to pay anything more than making a binding on industrial tariffs. If there have to be any adjustments on those bindings because of an Industries Assistance Commission investigation there will have to be further negotiations and we will have to pay in another area. 
The honourable member asked about the codes. I am coming to them. Five codes are under examination. The Government has not committed itself on whether it will be a signatory to those codes. It has circulated them to all the relevant industry people. Officers of my Department are travelling from State to State talking with State governments, industry people and the trade unions. When we get a response from these people the Government will be in a position to know whether it will sign all these codes or none at all. What could be a more responsible way of approaching this matter than that? We are canvassing the reaction of industry, trade unions and State governments as to whether we ought to sign these codes. When we have their response we will be able to make a decision. How else would we make such a decision? 
-The Government will have time because the codes have been circulated for a couple of months. Already we are getting reactions from industry. We will make our decision in ample time. We will be successful in this operation, as we have been in all the others. What I have said today ought to expose the falseness of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the statements he has made. He would like us to reveal the nature of our negotiations. In some cases that would be completely discourteous. At the worst it would be irresponsible. Why should we give away the advantage of negotiations by declaring in advance what the arrangements have been? Negotiations are still proceeding with Canada and Switzerland. Until settlement of the negotiations with all the countries involved, it is not the intention of the Government to reveal them in this House. That could embarrass some of the negotiations which are taking place. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The right honourable member's time has expired. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Recent amendments to the Export Market Development Grants Act provide that certain tourist industry services are eligible for grants in respect of expenditure incurred in 1 978-79. Claims may be lodged between 1 July 1 979 until 30 November 1979 in relation to the 1978-79 grant year. Therefore it is not possible at this stage to provide figures of the number of tourist industry applications for 1978-79. 
In view of the position described in the answer to the first part of the question it is not possible to give a meaningful estimation of either the total number of claimants or the total cost of their claims to the Commonwealth. 
In August 1977 I made a statement in this House on the Government's decisions about helping to facilitate the development of this enormous project in Western Australia. The central element of the Government's decisions then was the giving of approval for the export of 53 per cent of the then known reserves in the three fields of North Rankin, Angel and Goodwin. This amounted to an export of about  6lA  million tonnes of liquefied natural gas per year. There had been lengthy discussions with the companies on arriving at this level of 53 per cent. The companies pointed out that it was absolutely necessary to get this level of exports for them to be able to guarantee the viability and the economics of the project. If the companies could not enter into long term contracts selling this quantity they could not borrow the money for them to be able to develop the project. The latest estimate of the cost of the project is $4,000m. A tremendous capital-raising performance is required for them to be able to develop the project. Of course, if the project is not developed, Australia will not get the benefit of the liquefied petroleum gas and the condensate, which would be of great value to local industry. If this project goes ahead, it will give a tremendous lift to industry in Australia and will help our export performances. 
The decision then of the Government enabled the companies to go ahead with a more detailed definition of the field and the engineering requirements to see whether it was a feasible project. I believe that they are now getting to the stage where that work is nearly completed. The companies will be required to enter into negotiations, particularly with the Japanese, for large contracts so that they can borrow the money to proceed with the large scale development. Unfortunately, the Australian Labor Party has taken a turnabout in its attitude to the project. Recently, the Opposition's spokesman for energy- the honourable member for Blaxlandsaid at an Australian Labor Party energy conference in Western Australia that a greater percentage of the gas should be reserved for Australia and that the amount of exportable gas should be reduced by one-third. If that were to happen, the project would be struck dead. It would not go ahead. We would be back to the stage we were at during the three years in office of the Labor Government when nothing happened with the North West Shelf. Australia's largest development project - 
by leave- This statement explains a new series of initiatives which the Government has decided upon relating to Australia's trade with developing countries. In this context it is important to go over what is presently being done for developing countries by Australia. 
It is a long-established policy of the Government to provide enlarged trading opportunities in Australia for the products of developing countries, especially those in our region. We were the first country in the world to introduce a preference scheme. We have had a scheme since 1966, long before any other country had taken up the idea. In fact, our action was so unusual that we had to seek a special General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade waiver which, at the time, many developed countries were reluctant to concede. As a result, this path-breaking action by Australia led gradually to acceptance of the concept to the point that a general waiver was given. 
Since that time we have progressively modified our scheme to improve access to the Australian market for the products of developing countries. The point is now being reached where the Australian system of tariff preference covers nearly three-quarters of the dutiable items in the Australian tariff and assists developing countries to compete with developed country suppliers for an increasing share of the Australian market. That our efforts have been successful can be shown by reference to the expanding value of trade developing countries have with Australia. In 1 967-68 imports from all developing countries into Australia were valued at $A505m or 1 5 per cent of total Australian imports. In 1978-79 imports from developing countries were valued at $A2,91 lm or 21 per cent of total Australian imports. In that same period the share of the Australian market supplied by the European Economic Community and North America fell from 65 per cent to 52 per cent. 
We back up all these efforts to improve access opportunities for developing countries by practical and realistic measures to help them actually sell their goods in our market. This kind of activity has been another first for Australia. The efforts of developing countries to expand their exports to Australia are supported by a Market Advisory Service, whereby the Department of Trade and Resources assists potential developing country exporters to assess the market in Australia for their goods. We maintain special offices in Sydney and Melbourne, with officers experienced in trade promotion matters, of the same calibre as those we use in our own export promotion programs. Each year we receive and assist many trade missions from developing countries which give us an opportunity to introduce exporters to potential customers and in doing this under-pin the efforts of the commercial representatives of developing countries in Australia. Special courses are run from time to time for these representatives to enable them to understand the Australian commercial system and government procedures. 
As well as these forms of assistance Australia is among those countries which support the International Trade Centre in Geneva. As part of the Centre's activities the Department of Trade and Resources provides trade experts to conduct on the spot seminars in developing countries for government officials on trade promotion and the running of Trade Commissioner posts. In addition, the Department of Trade and Resources conducts seminars each year in collaboration with the Department of Foreign Affairs for both government officials and private businessmen from the surrounding regions on trade development. 
In October last year new ground was broken with the Association of South East Asian Nations Trade Fair in Sydney, which was financed and organised by the Australian Government. A similar display is being held in Melbourne in August 1 980, and an Australian team is currently visiting all ASEAN capitals engaged in detailed planning with their ASEAN counterparts. Active programs are now being formulated with ASEAN to promote investment by Australian firms. The Australian Government provides full support for these programs. Australian investors are, for example, able to utilise the service of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation to insure their investments. I have given emphasis to these actions by Australia because I believe they are imperfectly understood within the Australian community and I think it is important that they are drawn to the attention of the House. They are not, I believe, questions which have been politicised but are actions which this Parliament can be proud of. 
In keeping with our desire to continue to do as much as possible for developing countries to expand their trade, the Government has decided that the time has come for a new round of initiatives which wfil give further impetus to our overall objectives. We have, therefore, agreed on a package of new and beneficial initiatives for developing countries which are briefly as follows: The modification of procedures under the Australian system of tariff preferences; the elimination of British Preferential Tariffs on items of interest to developing countries; an increased number of regular visits by trade officials for trade consultations; the establishment of a showroom for developing country products in either Sydney or Melbourne; and further expansion of the Australian system of tariff preferences. 
Let me now explain each of these initiatives and how they will benefit developing countries. Taking first the modification of existing procedures for varying preferences available to developing countries, under existing arrangements there is provision for a developing country which becomes fully competitive with other suppliers in a particular product to surrender its preferential margin on that product. That is a necessary part of our developing country preference scheme which allows us on a continuing basis to redistribute the benefits of the scheme to developing countries most in need of help. To maintain a preference for a developing country no longer needing such assistance denies the benefit of our scheme to those still in need of a preferential margin. However, we have found that some countries which have lost the full benefit of a preference have lost their competitive edge and, in some instances, their trade has fallen excessively. What we now propose is that when the Industries Assistance Commission looks at the question of possible disruption to the Australian domestic industry it will have the option, with emerging competitive developing countries, not merely to recommend whether or not they will continue to enjoy a preference, but in addition whether they should be accorded a reduced margin of preference. In this way developing countries will continue to have preferential access to our market and ensure that they maintain some competitive edge over developed country suppliers. In the context of this new initiative let me assure the House that it is not our intention to disturb any existing policies relating to assistance for Australian industry. The purpose of the refinement I have just outlined is, as indeed is the purpose of our developing country preference scheme, to improve the competitive position of developing countries in comparison with other overseas suppliers. 
On the matter of British preferences the Government has been conscious of the existence of an anomalous situation in which for certain goods British suppliers enjoyed a margin of preference over developing countries arising from the continued existence of preferences to Britain in our tariff. Developing countries have expressed concern over this situation but accepted our assurance that the question would be reviewed as soon as multinational trade negotiation considerations would permit. That time has now come and accordingly it has been decided to remove the British preference on some 500 tariff items of interest to developing countries and thereby remove an anomaly which permitted developing country products to be disadvantaged in our market. The value of the trade in these items to Asian developing countries is around $A441m. British preference will remain on a range of tariff items in which developing countries interest is not significant even though Australia's obligations to give Britain preference ceased in February 1973. 
It was intended that the preferences would gradually be eliminated in the context of our ongoing tariff review program. Had that timetable continued all British preferences would have been phased out by now. However, owing to world economic circumstances the tariff review program was delayed and some preferences still remain. They will however, be progressively eliminated in the normal course of IAC reports. 
The Government considers that for the moment there are sound reasons not to proceed to immediate and total discontinuation of these preferences with Britain, given the special and valuable relationship existing between ourselves and Britain. 
The third initiative I mentioned is designed to increase contact at the working level between Australian trade officials and their counterparts in developing countries. During the past two years there have been a growing number of visits by the Prime Minister,  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  my colleague the Minister for Special Trade Representations,  Mr Garland,  and me, as well as officials of the Department of Trade and Resources, to developing countries to discuss the growth of a two-way trade and sort out bilateral trading problems. This program of close consultation is to be given impetus and an increased number of regular visits are to be made in the coming year by trade officials. The Government sees real advantage in ensuring even closer contact be maintained between trade officials so that our trade policies are better understood by officials in developing countries and realistic programs to develop their exports to us are achieved. When trade problems arise there will be immediate consultations with a view to finding mutually acceptable solutions before these problems become issues between governments and affect our trade relations. The practical effect of this initiative will be that the efforts of the Government and Ministers to improve our trade relations with the five member governments of ASEAN will be supported by an increased number of regular visits by Australian trade officials. I believe these more regular consultations on trade matters will ensure that our trade relations with ASEAN continues to improve and the trade between Australia and ASEAN continues to grow. 
The fourth initiative is the establishment of a developing country showroom in Sydney or Melbourne. Many developing countries have limited or no commercial representation in Australia. By having available a showroom organised on a professional basis, further opportunity will exist for developing country exporters to obtain introductions to Australian buyers. Investigations are being undertaken as to the appropriate form and organisation of such a display room, and providing that satisfactory arrangements can be made funds will be available for work on this project in the 1979-80 financial year. A developing country showroom will provide an opportunity for all developing countries to display a wide range of goods to potential purchasers in the Australian market. 
The fifth initiative is a further expansion of the scope of developing country preferences. Following a review of the Australian system of Tariff preferences for developing countries by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  and myself, details of improved access to the Australian market for certain imports from developing countries will be announced shortly. In summary, imports of an additional 66 products from developing countries will now be eligible for new or increased margins of tariff preference. In addition, in relation to the small number of items where limitations are applied to the annual level of imports that can be entered from developing countries at concessional rates, it has been decided that the limitation on quota levels could be increased on 20 quota groups, an increase which, in all but two cases, will be by a factor of 50 per cent. The new quota levels will come into effect for the quota period 1 July 1 979 to 30 June 1980. These changes are also in line with the Government's objective of assisting developing countries to expand their exports in Australia by enabling them to compete with developed country suppliers in the Australian market. 
I believe that our actions in favour of developing countries, in providing expanding opportunities for them to sell increasing quantities of their goods in Australia will stand comparison with those of any other country. Our measures, taken together, are most comprehensive and cover the fullest possible range of trade policy and trade promotion measures. Yet there is no place for complacency. We have our various measures under continuing review and will be looking for opportunities for improving them or modifying them still further for the benefit of developing countries. I can assure the House that a major plank of the Government's trade policy will be to continue to foster mutually beneficial and expanding trade between Australia and our developing country partners, especially those in our region. I am ensuring that these initiatives receive the widest possible publicity among developing countries through diplomatic channels and, in addition, the Minister for Special Trade Representations is at present in Singapore talking to his ministerial counterpart at which time he will take the opportunity to explain fully the significance of these initiatives. He will be doing the same in Malaysia later this week. Furthermore, in October, I shall be visiting a number of countries in the region with the same intention. I present the following paper. 
Trade With Developing Countries-Ministerial Statement, 26 September 1979. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
I wish to advise the House that at a meeting of members of my party this morning I informed my colleagues that the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  wishes to stand aside as  Deputy  Leader of the Parliamentary Party. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has been appointed Acting  Deputy  Leader of the Party and will remain in that position until the position of the right honourable member for New England has been clarified. 
For the information of honourable members I present the text of a statement by the Attorney-General relating to the Senate Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce report on the Australian Trade Commissioner Service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the reply given by the Minister for Administrative Services in answer to Question No. 4299  (Hansard,  pages 972-3 of 1 1 September 1 979). 
Task Group on Youth Affairs  (Question No. 4356) 
There would not be a man in this country who has a sense of decency or compassion who has not got a deep feeling for the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  because of the circumstances in which he has found himself. I feel particularly for him because I have been closely associated with him. He has involved me in and talked to me about his circumstances. It was quite obvious that he would be a victim of allegations, of unproven rumours and of scurrilous attacks at a time when he could not defend himself. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

All those people who heard the right honourable member for New England speak in this House today will admit that he performed extremely well and made a most compelling case for his innocence. He refuted allegations that have been made and really highlighted the point that justice has to be done in this case. It is up to the New South Wales Government to see that the matter can be properly heard before the courts instead of being left in its present state of limbo. Who would ever suggest that he should resign when these sorts of unproven allegations are made over a period of time? The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has done exactly the right thing in defending him to this stage. However, now that a report has come down - 
-Of course he has up to this stage because previously there was no report. The matter has been under investigation in New South Wales for the past 16 months. During that time the right honourable member for New England had his hands tied and was unable to defend himself. The Opposition took the opportunity of the privileges of the Parliament to criticise, abuse and cast aspersions against a man who could not defend himself. Today is the first opportunity that he has had of saying something. But he did not have the advantage of a proper examination of the report to be able to present a case other than what flowed from his heart this morning. I am sure that it impressed every decent person in this House. 
Let us go back to the facts. Three years ago the right honourable member for New England inherited a group of family companies. Having looked at their affairs, he immediately made up his mind that there were some inconsistencies. These concerned him. He did the proper and right thing immediately. He had the matter referred to the Corporate Affairs Commission in New South Wales. 
-He did it. It was not demanded of him. The professional people in the Corporate Affairs Commission looked at the matter for two years. They made no recommendation that there should be an investigation. But alas what happened? The New South Wales Attorney-General decided to appoint a special investigator. The politics of the situation were too good to let the matter go by. Here was an opportunity to destroy a senior member of the national Government. So the New South Wales Attorney-General appointed as an investigator none other than a well-known Labor man, a man who has been associated with the Labor Party organisation. He is a relatively junior Queen's Counsel. 
-He is not even a Queen's Counsel. He is a relatively junior member of the Bar. I would have thought that the situation demanded the appointment of a person of the highest credentials to cany out this sort of investigation because of the national publicity it was being given. After the Corporate Affairs Commission had looked at the matter for two years, that investigation dragged on for 16 months, an inordinate amount of time, to draw the maximum amount of politics out of it. We saw the Leader of the Opposition and other members of the Opposition homing in and gnawing away, trying to make the maximum out of it. They smeared and poisoned the right honourable member because of his actions. I thought that the events yesterday summed up the situation very well. We saw the Leader of the Opposition bring forward a question, obviously having the advantage of knowing that the report of the investigation had been brought down, to attack again the right honourable member without any evidence in order to get the matter into the newspapers today. When he was asked to appear on  Nationwide  last night he ran away like a coward. As Richard Carleton summed it up, he is a man of straw. 
The time has arrived for great indignation in this nation at the sorts of tactics that have been followed by the Labor Party in trying to destroy a man by smearing him. That is what Opposition members have been doing. Let there be proven evidence. If there is, the Prime Minister and I will take action to see that the appropriate course is followed according to the dignity and proper conditions of the Parliament. But there has been no necessity to ask the honourable member to stand down. Indeed, it was he who agreed to resign. 
-He suggested that he should resign because he knew that this matter would drag on and that no prosecutions would be lodged against him by the New South Wales Government. 
-The right honourable member for New England has acted with complete propriety in this matter during the whole period. He has never refused to get up in this House and state his point of view. I doubt whether any other honourable member of this House could have stood the vilification and abuse that  Mr Sinclair  has taken over the past three years from both members of this House and the Australian media. He is determined to have this matter resolved. To me, that is proof of an innocent man wanting to see justice. It is this strength that will see him through. I am very proud of the way in which he performed in this House today. It did great credit to him. I am sure that everybody will agree with me. 
It is quite obvious that the appointment of  Mr Finnane  in New South Wales was to do a hatchet job on Ian Sinclair, to bring down a report which would make it impossible for him to remain in his position. That is what he has done. Today Ian Sinclair clearly refuted three of the main charges. If the New South Wales Government does not like what he has done why does it not bring charges? Why does it not bring the matter to court and let a jury decide. Let there be a fair trial, not a political trial as we are seeing in the Parliament. The time has come when the Australian people will react to this sort of character assassination which has been carried out by the Labor Party. This case is a monstrous example of what is happening. The media- not to its credithas played a principal role. For instance, the  Age  bought information to try to denigrate the right honourable member. If the media thinks that that practice is ethical, let it continue it. It has brought great disgust from the Australian people for that sort of performance. 
It is up to the New South Wales Government now to clear up this matter as quickly as possible. It will be a complete indictment of  Mr Wran's  Government if action is not taken promptly to clear the man named by these accusations. The right honourable member for New England is one of the most competent members of this House. The Opposition knows it. That is why it has been concentrating its attack on him. But the attack is backfiring now. This is the dirtiest campaign I have ever seen in my political life. It has been orchestrated with the New South Wales Government having all the benefits and privileges of law in New South Wales, and the Federal Opposition having the privilege in this Parliament of being able to say what it likes about the right honourable member. Let us wait until the matter comes to the court. Let us wait and see what the judgment is then. If a jury proves innocence, I believe that there ought to be a royal commission into  Mr Finnane  's activities in New South Wales. It is a perversion of justice and a prostitution of the laws of this country to carry out a conspiracy of this nature. The matter should be resolved and clarified as quickly as possible. I have absolute confidence in my colleague. He will come through innocent and cleared of the gross and monstrous allegations that have been made against him. I hope that the Leader of the Opposition and members of his party will have the decency to apologise. Of course, they will not do so. They are low animals, as they have demonstrated during the course of this whole affair. They will pay for it. There is a degree of decency in the average Australian. 
I am quite happy to withdraw it, but every Australian knows that what I am saying is right. 
I withdraw. The Labor Party has lacked principles and is prepared to act in what I believe is the most despicable way in which one can act, and that is, to keep attacking a man who cannot defend himself or have his case properly heard. At the moment we have this report making certain assertions yet there still can be no conclusions to it. It is for that reason that the honourable member resigned, hoping that this would force the issue in New South Wales, hoping that an immediate charge will be made against him so that there can be a court inquiry to determine whether or not he is innocent. 
As far as I am concerned, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has acted absolutely correctly during this whole procedure. It would have been quite wrong, as evidence is now showing, to have acted before now. I think that when the eventual conclusion to this case is reached, it will be a sad day for members of the Labor Party because it will prove just how low they are. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is customary to display photographs of the Minister for Trade and Resources at the sixty-nine overseas posts where the Department of Trade and Resources is represented. However, it is not usual practice to display photographs of the Minister at the Department's offices in Australia. I do not propose to determine the precise number of photographs displayed because of the cost that would be involved in obtaining the information. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the reply given by the Minister for Administrative Services in answer to Question No. 4299  (Hansard,  pages 972-3 of11 September1979). 
Post-graduate Awards  (Question No. 4395) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 )  Mr G.  M. Hill, Assistant Secretary, Trade Relations and Markets Division, Department of Trade and Resources, visited Malta in September 1978. The specific objectives of the visit were: to demonstrate Australia's willingness to explore the scope for strengthening trade and commercial links between the two countries; to review existing trade and economic relations between Australia and Malta; and to identify areas which could lead to increased two-way trade, investment and commercial exchanges between the two countries. 
The major recommendations contained in  Mr Hill's  report were that: the Department of Trade and Resources prepare surveys of the Australian market potential for certain products of interest to Malta selected Australian firms be contacted with a view to encouraging them to consider Malta as an investment centre and that publicity be provided to assist in promoting Malta as an investment centre the prospects of using Malta as a transhipment centre for Australian products be investigated. 
and (4) The following action on these recommendations has been taken by the Department of Trade and Resources surveys of the Australian market for the nominated products were sent to the Ministry of Commonwealth and Foreign Affairs in Malta in April 1979. These surveys indicated that there could be prospects for Malta to export a number of products to Australia an offer to airfreight a limited number of product samples to Australia from Malta for detailed market evaluation has been accepted by the Maltese authorities and I understand that these samples have already been despatched selected Australian firms and organisations have been contacted regarding their interest in investing in Malta or in using Malta as a transhipment centre an investment climate study on Malta is being prepared and will be published shortly. 
At this stage the Government has not made a decision relating to the various codes under the Multilateral Trade Negotiations round of negotiations. The subsidies and countervailing duties code which the honourable gentleman mentioned was negotiated largely between the European Economic Community and the United States of America. Within negotiation on the code, which was a rather complex matter taking in many tax and other matters, the Americans had included their DISC scheme, which is an export incentive scheme. They are refusing to repeal the scheme so as to take out the DISC arrangement. However, they have made certain sounds indicating that they will integrate the DISC scheme into the subsidy code arrangement slowly over a period. We have been making soundings with our industry people in Australia, getting a reaction to the various codes. Until we have a reaction the Government will not decide whether it will become a member to this code. 
A year or two ago there was a debate in this House concerning the future of the Duchess phosphate deposit in Queensland. At that stage Broken Hill South Ltd, which owned the deposit, was very reluctant to pursue the development because it was uneconomic. At the same time we were given information by the British Phosphate Commission that Christmas Island would have economic deposits to keep it going until at least the latter part of the 1980s. However, due to changing economic circumstances and a reassessment of the grades of phosphate on Christmas Island it looks as though the life of that deposit is very much shorter than what we were informed at that time. I can assure the honourable member that Australian farmers will be given every opportunity to get access to the cheapest available forms of phosphate. Should it be necessary to go ahead and to develop our own rock phosphate deposits, I certainly hope that Australian companies will be willing to do so. 
One of the very important aspects of the negotiations between Australia and the United States was the getting of some relief from the wool duty that has been imposed upon the import of raw wool into that country since about the tura of the century. During the course of negotiations with the United States we were able to get relief to the extent of 60 per cent over a period of three years. That progressdown to 60 per cent- will start to take effect in 1980 and will be concluded after a period of three years. 
I have been notified that the key sugar legislation which incorporated the provisions of the International Sugar Agreement has been rejected by the United States Congress. This is most unfortunate as we have been waiting for some considerable time to have the United States Administration get ratification of the International Sugar Agreement. The United States has been a principal participant in the formulation of the present International Sugar Agreement and it gave us a number of assurances that the International Sugar Agreement would be ratified. However, I am told that the Administration and senior congressmen will now split the legislation, go back to the original part which contained the provisions of the ISA and resubmit it to Congress in the hope that it will be accepted. 
In the meantime, I can well understand the difficulties that this will cause and the concern within the sugar world. However, it is the belief of the sugar producing countries that they should all hold together and not abdicate their responsibilities to the ISA. At the moment, ISA countries are holding large quantities of sugar off the market. If all this sugar were to be freed, it would have a depressing effect on the price. There has been some strengthening of the market in recent weeks and it was hoped that this trend would continue. Certainly, the price would have been ever so much worse over the last 12 months if the provisions of the ISA had not been working. The withholding of sugar from the market has certainly kept the price at a higher level than it would have been otherwise. 
I think the most disturbing feature, while we now wait for the United States to try again to ratify the Agreement, has been the actions of the 
European Economic Community countries. They have continually dumped large quantities of subsidised sugar on the world market and have been largely responsible for the low prices that have been prevailing. I think it is appalling that they should shelter behind the actions of the United States in saying that they will not accede to the ISA until the United States takes action. This, I believe, is a cowardly approach. They should accept the responsibility of helping the developing and sugar producing countries of the world in trying to bring some reasonable price stability to the international sugar market. However, I believe that the United States Administration will try to get the ISA ratified. I am looking forward to its succeeding in doing so. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 5 ) The impact on Australia of the international oil situation arising from events in Iran earlier this year and the comprehensive measures taken by the Government to deal with it were announced by the Prime Minister in a major statement on Energy Policy on 27 June 1979 and in subsequent statements by Ministers. I have nothing to add to them or to statements made in earlier periods in different contexts. 

 - Mr Speaker, I am sure that honourable members would wish me to place on record the sympathy and regret of this House at the sudden and tragic death on 26 October of  President  Park Chung Hee of the Republic of Korea. I recall the visit to Australia earlier this year, as Prime Minister, by  His Excellency  Choi KyuHah, whom honourable members had the opportunity to meet and who has now become Acting  President  of the Republic of Korea in such sad circumstances. That visit highlighted the sound and cordial relationship between Australia and the Republic of Korea, and the support for it which exists on both sides of this House. 
It was with great shock and sadness that I received the news of the death of  President  Park. Under his leadership the Republic of Korea has become one of Asia's outstanding economic success stories.  His  Government achieved remarkable improvement in the living standards of the people of the Republic of Korea while shouldering a major defence burden, to provide security in the face of serious external threat.  President  Park 's Government faced enormous problems in managing the country's economic development and meeting this continuing external threat, and there were criticisms of his Government's observance of human rights. Yet the display of national solidarity and mourning at his passing reflects the deep sense of loss of the people of the Republic of Korea. They have the sympathy of the Australian Government and people. This was conveyed personally to the Republic of Korea 
Government and  President  Park's family by the Foreign Minister  (Mr Peacock)  who represented Australia at the funeral ceremonies held in Seoul on 3 November. Despite the loss of  President  Park the Republic of Korea Government has indicated its determination to press forward with the development of the country's economic and international relations. The Australian Government will continue to build upon the excellent and mutually beneficial relationship which has been established between Australia and the Republic ofKorea. 
I inform the House that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is indisposed and for the time being I will handle questions on his behalf. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  left Australia on 1 November to attend the funeral of  President  Park in Seoul and to visit New York for the Kampuchean pledging conference. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  will act as Minister for Foreign Affairs until  Mr Peacock's  return next week. 
For the information of honourable members I present the amended version of the interim report of the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs. 
Motion (by  Mr Viner)  proposed: 
That the  report  be  printed. 
I think so. 
I understand so. I am sure of it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-by leave-In July 1979 following allegations of leakages of information from an unknown officer of the Sydney office of the Narcotics Bureau, the Government decided it was appropriate to consider general matters relating to the Narcotics Bureau, including organisation, recruitment, staffing and control, lines of responsibility to the Permanent Head and the Minister, and relationship with other arms of government. Accordingly, on 7 August, with the approval of  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  sought from the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs an interim report on those issues. The interim report was presented to the Governor-General on 18 September 1979. On the following day the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  made a parliamentary statement advising that the report had been received and that, as requested by the Royal Commissioner, it would be kept confidential. He said that the Royal Commission's final report, including whatever recommendations may be made relating to the Narcotics Bureau, would be tabled in the Parliament when received. 
The Government has now obtained the consent of the Royal Commission to the publication of an amended version of the interim report, without the material appended to it and with some amendments principally to delete references to the appendixes. Copies of the original interim report have been made available on a confidential basis to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and to the Leader of the Australian Democrats  (Senator Chipp).  The Government has given careful consideration to the chief recommendations contained in the interim report and has decided to adopt, in principle, the recommendation that the Narcotics Bureau be disbanded and that responsibility for enforcing, at the Customs barrier, Commonwealth law against imported drugs remain vested in the Bureau of Customs and responsibility elsewhere be vested in the Australian Federal Police. An administrative direction will give the Australian Federal Police responsibility for decisions, in appropriate cases, on seizure, arrest and prosecution in relation to drugs whichever side of the Customs barrier the offence is, or could be, detected. Responsibility for narcotics policing will now be transferred from the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs to the Minister for Administrative Services. The Government will be giving consideration to other recommendations in the interim report, some of which will involve consultation with the States and Territories. 
In making its decisions the Government has been conscious of the need for the Commonwealth to maintain a high level of effort against drug trafficking and drug abuse. It has also been concerned to safeguard the interests of the staff concerned and the security of their employment. The Government has therefore decided not to accept the Royal Commission's recommendation that staff of the Narcotics Bureau be given the option of transferring to the Australian Federal Police or remaining with the Bureau of Customs. Instead, the Government has decided to follow the normal procedures for transfers of functions within the Government's service. To do otherwise could adversely affect the level of the Commonwealth's efforts against drugs and could lead to operational difficulties and problems of placement of staff- even to redundancy. Therefore, to maintain the trust of the Commonwealth's efforts against drug crimes, officers of the Narcotics Bureau will be transferred in the firstinstance to the Office of the Australian Federal Police, Department of Administrative Services and will be directed to work under the direction of the Commissioner, Australian Federal Police. This transfer will take place as soon as possible. When the Commissioner, Australian Federal Police, has established the appropriate organisation, those Narcotics Bureau staff who are qualified and suitable for appointment as police officers will be appointed to the Australian Federal Police. Those who are performing duties which are better fitted to Public Service employment and who are not qualified or suitable for appointment as police officers would remain in Public Service Act positions and retain normal Public Service rights. 
The long-term arrangements will involve close linkages with other crime functions of the Australian Federal Police. A multi-disciplinary approach involving police officers and public servants will be adopted. Transitional arrangements for pay, leave, allowances and so on for staff appointed as police officers will be worked out between the Commissioner of the Australian Federal Police, the Public Service Board and the Department of Administrative Services. They will then be formally determined in the normal way. There will be full consultation with the staff and staff associations. The Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service matters will be fully involved. The Government will shortly be introducing amendments to the Customs Act and the Telecommunications (Interception) Act to give the Australian Federal Police, alone, authority to intercept telecommunications and use listening devices in the investigation of drug offences; this authority will not extend to other kinds of criminal offences. 
The Royal Commission identified three main factors in support of its recommendations. In brief they are: 
the Narcotics Bureau is founded on an insufficient legislative base. 
. . . persons who by any standards would be classified as criminals are deeply engaged in the illegal trade in drugs ... 
the total staff of the Narcotics Bureau is too small. 
In addition to the above factors the Royal Commission states: 
An effective police agency, which is what the Narcotics Bureau tries to be, cannot be conducted within the framework of the Public Service. 
It went on to say: 
The Narcotics Bureau claims that the simple remedy for any deficiencies it may have is to increase its staff, powers and resources. The Commission rejects this cure which, in its opinion, would compound the problem not solve it. The solution is to attach the main functions of the Narcotics Bureau to the Australian Federal Police Force. The much greater manpower and resources of that body would then be available to assist in drug law enforcement. The resources of Customs would not be stripped to support the Narcotics Bureau but would be deployed where they should be, to prohibit the passage of drugs across Australia's borders. 
The Royal Commission has come to the considered opinion that the Narcotics Bureau is not a highly efficient agency; that there is considerable and increasing distrust of the Narcotics Bureau among other law enforcement agencies; and that within the judicial system, generally speaking, the Narcotics Bureau's reputation for efficiency is lower than that of State police forces. Most compelling and convincing however is the fact that the Narcotics Bureau is working in an area of crime in which highly intelligent and ruthless criminals are involved and which spills over into other areas of crime. This is a matter for a police force with police powers, training and  discipline and possessing a range and breadth of resources that can be employed as needed in the fight against drug crimes. The Government is confident that the Australian Federal Police with the full co-operation of the Bureau of Customs will forge new relationships with State police forces in a greater, better directed, Australiawide effort against drug crimes and drug abuse. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics of Australia's trade with Ethiopia in recent years are contained in the attached tables compiled from figures provided by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
I am advised that the Australian Bureau of Statistics is unable to supply any information relating to individual companies as these details are regarded as being commercial-in-confidence '. 
Because of the growing world concern about energy supply, the United Nations held a special symposium last month in Poland, where some 360 delegates from 45 countries around the world, including Australia, presented papers. Most of the conference 's attention centred on steaming coal. Some staggering figures came out of this conference. People at the conference talked about a renaissance for steaming coal, about a new demand being created because of oil prices and the uncertainty of supply. They spoke in terms of the demands of countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development increasing from 519 million tonnes in 1976 to a potential of 1,400 million tonnes or more by the year 2000. This sort of increase is very much in Une with the International Energy Agency figures which projected that Australia would increase its steaming coal exports from virtually nil at the moment to about 120 million tonnes by the year 2000. I believe that if we can respond to the situation by developing mines and the necessary infrastructure to be able to handle such large tonnages, those figures could be conservative. 
Enormous interest is being shown by countries all around the world in developing Australia's steaming coal resources. For this development to take place a number of things will have to happen. Firstly, I believe the price will have to be at a higher level than exists at the moment. Mines cannot be developed at present prices because there is not sufficient attraction in the returns to miners for them to put in the massive capital that is necessary to undertake this development. However, I believe that the international price situation will respond. It will be necessary also to have very close co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States in looking at how we are to meet the requirements for railroads, port handling facilities and ports to handle these very large tonnages. I re-emphasise that the world is looking a second time at steaming coal as being a major source of energy for power generation and for many other industrial purposes. 
-( Richmond-Minister for Trade and Resources)- Pursuant to section 88 of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Act 1974-78, 1 present the annual report of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation for 1979. 
Pursuant to section 47 of the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation Act 1978, 1 present the annual report of the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation 1979. 
I think everybody is shocked by the news that is coming out of East Timor and a good deal of credit for informing the Australian public must go to the  Sydney Morning Herald  reporter who first released stories and photographs on the tragedy in that country. The Commonwealth Government responded immediately with funds that were appropriated by making $333,000 available for the supply of vitamin-enriched biscuits to East Timor. Upon further consideration of the matter the Government has now appropriated another $2m to give immediate help to the people in East Timor. 
I am well aware of the honourable member's concern about the distribution. We have made arrangements so that supplies can go directly to Dili and we will be working through various international charitable organisations to ensure that the distribution is as thorough as possible. The honourable member raised the question of a parliamentary delegation. We have before us also a request for a parliamentary delegation to go to Kampuchea. However, I am very happy to take on board the request that has been made by the honourable member and to see that it is examined by the Government. I will report back. 
-On Tuesday of this week I wrote to all Premiers asking that they react to the report of the Williams inquiry suggesting that closer co-operation should exist between the Commonwealth and the States in detecting drug trafficking and in trying to have greater control over criminal activities. Yesterday I received a reply from  Mr Wran  of New South Wales expressing willingness to co-operate on a centralised intelligence unit to be established. I am very pleased to get such an immediate reaction. There will, of course, have to be discussions with all the States on this proposal. But I believe it is a very worthy recommendation of the Williams report, as well as of the Woodward report in New South Wales and is something we would want to build on. 

 Mr Wran also sent me a telegram yesterday notifying me that  Mr Justice  Woodward was thinking of making a trip to Bangkok to investigate drug matters in Thailand. I think it ought to be known that  Mr Justice  Williams has already made a trip to Bangkok. I imagine that he will be making reference to that visit in his final report. I believe that the question of controlling drug trafficking and drug abuse is a national issue on which there needs to be full co-operation between all the law enforcement authorities in Australia. Therefore, I think the sensible course at this stage would be for  Mr Justice  Williams and  Mr Justice  Woodward to consult each other. I am sure that  Mr Justice  Williams will provide  Mr Justice  Woodward with all the information that he has already obtained regarding Bangkok, and give advice as to whether such a trip is necessary and, if necessary, what matters might be looked into, when the visit might take place and what the composition of the visiting party might be. I think that this is the sensible and logical approach. I hope that these discussions can take place immediately between these two people, who have carried out two very important inquiries. 
Following remarks that were made last week by the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Wran,  concerning the closing down of the Lucas Heights reactor for servicing, there was a reaction from the Premier of Western Australia that, if the Australian Atomic Energy Commission was considering putting in a new reactor for the production of isotopes and for research work, his Government would be very willing to have it established in Western Australia. I think most people who know the work that has gone on at the Lucas Heights establishment for some 30 years will appreciate that it has earned itself a very good reputation for the research work that it has done and for the production of medical isotopes and other isotopes for industrial uses. It has fulfilled a very valuable role on the Australian scene. Without it we would have been behind the rest of the world in technical knowledge of matters relating to the nuclear age. However, I felt somewhat disappointed that the Premier of New South Wales had to take a political advantage and create a degree of scaremongering. On the advice that was given to me, there was no leakage of radioactivity. It was a servicing operation. I have received the assurance of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission that that reactor will not be put into operation until it meets all the design specifications to ensure that there are no hazards to anybody working at Lucas Heights. 
Regarding nuclear matters, if the Government of New South Wales feels so strongly about any further developments of nuclear plants in that State, certainly it would be of advantage to get its reaction to nuclear enrichment. A good deal of competition is being generated between States as to where a likely enrichment plant would be established. Such an establishment would be a great asset to any State because of the huge capital investment involved and the job opportunities it would make available. If New South Wales is not interested, we can say that the States of South Australia, Western Australia and Queensland are certainly very interested in such a development. In that event there will be no squabble with New South Wales, which apparently is just not interested. 
I think all Australians, like much of the world, are distressed about the situation in Kampuchea and the flight of those people who are trying to get away from the threats that are being made to them by various regimes. While in Thailand recently I had the opportunity of visiting a refugee camp at Nong Khai. That refugee camp comprised basically people from Laos. At that time most of the refugees in Thailand were from Laos. There were something like 120,000 of them. Since my visit only some weeks ago, there has been an influx of refugees from Kampuchea, so their numbers have swelled considerably. After visiting Nong Khai, I can say with a good deal of pride that Australia's performance in that camp was better than that of any other country. I saw the names of countries taking refugees and the number of refugees who had been resettled in those countries. Australia had taken from that camp either the third or fourth highest number of refugees. On a per capita basis we were well ahead of any other country. 
The policy of the Australian Government has been to put the greatest priority on giving help to the boat people. Whilst we are not neglecting our responsibility of taking refugees who have gone to Thailand, I believe that there is a need to try to help the boat people who, if they do not get some sort of help at an intermediate stage, might try to make the long trip to Australia. If we can discourage people from taking the long trip to Australia on boats I think we are fulfilling a worthwhile purpose. We will keep a close eye on the refugee situation in Thailand to which the honourable gentleman referred, but I think we can take some comfort from the fact that we have taken a responsible share of refugees. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has concluded trade agreements with the Governments of the following countries since the answer to Question No. 340: 
Philippines-1975 (a); Brazil- 1978; Poland- 1978; Thailand- 1979. 
Entered into force 1979. 
A trade agreement was signed with the Government of Bahrain in 1 979 but is not yet in force. 
The trade agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany is no longer in force. 
Consultative bodies have been established under the following new agreements since the answer to Question No. 340: 
Brazil- (Joint Committee); Philippines- (Joint Commission); Poland- (Mixed Commission); Thailand(Joint Trade Committee ). 
The dates and places of the meetings of consultative bodies since the answer to Question No. 340 are a.' under 
Brazil- 18-19 July 1 979 in Brazil; China-4-6 June 1 979 in Australia; Hungary- 19-22 June 1979 in Australia; India-27-29 November 1978 in Australia; Korea- 10- 15 October 1979 in Korea; New Zealand (a)- 17 October 1979 in New Zealand; New Zealand (b)- 10-1 1 April 1979 in New Zealand; Philippines-27-28 August 1979 in Philippines; Poland-21-25 May 1979 in Poland; Romania-7-9 May 1979 in Australia. 
Joint Consultative Council on Forest Industries. 
b ) NAFTA Consultative Com mittee. 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights  (Question No. 4406) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
24 January 1979; 28 February 1979; 30 March 1979; 26 and 27 April 1979 (visit to Lucas Heights); 23-26 May 1979 (Northern Territory visit); 5 and 6 July 1979; 9 and 10 August 1979. 
The Uranium Advisory Council has discussed a wide range of matters during its meetings. The First Report of the Council tabled in the Parliament on 13 September 1979  (Hansard,  page 1085) covered the period to 30 June 1979 and also indicated several matters to which the Council would be giving attention at subsequent meetings. I am informed that additionally in July and/or August, Council members bad discussions with a Commissioner and the Director of the Australian Heritage Commission, the Acting Director of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service, the Director of the Australian Conservation Foundation and officers from the Department of Trade and Resources and the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. 
The Uranium Advisory Council Secretariat is currently staffed by five officers employed under the Public Service Act: one Assistant Secretary (Level 1 ), one Senior Research Officer/Librarian (Class 7), one Administrative Officer (Class 6), one Clerical Assistant, Grade 3 and one Stenosecretary, Grade 1. Recruitment action presently being taken will increase the Secretariat 's staff to seven by the addition of one Senior Project Officer (Class 10) and one Principal Research Officer (Class 9). 
The honourable member will appreciate that with the exception of senior staff, details of whom are printed in the  Commonwealth Government Directory,  it is not normal practice to publish the names and backgrounds of support staff employed under the Public Service Act. 
No. 
Pursuant to section 20 of the Coal Industry Act 1946,I present the annual report of the Joint Coal Board 1978-79. 
-I have seen the report in the Press this morning that the Shell Co. of Australia Ltd has made a bid to take over control of the Bellambi Coal Co. Ltd in New South Wales. This takeover bid will have to be presented to the Foreign Investment Review Board for consideration. When that Board gives its recommendation the Government will give consideration to it. Australia has very large deposits of coal. These deposits are coming to international attention. Enormous demands will be placed upon them. If we are to meet the demand expectations made of us there will have to be tremendous capital investment, not only in the development of mines but also in the infrastructure arrangements that will be needed to handle the sorts of tonnages we are talking of. I doubt very much whether it is possible within Australia to accumulate the capital to carry out this sort of development. Acknowledging that there will be difficulties with the capital requirements, we will have to look to overseas personnel, by way of both direct and indirect investment, to make these achievements possible. I would not like to think that we are going to lay down strict or arbitrary rules discriminating against people who might want to participate in the development of these resources, not only for our own benefit but also for the benefit of other people around the world who desperately need coal. We do have foreign investment guideline rules. The purpose of the Foreign Investment Review Board is to see that takeovers or investments conform to these guideline rules. In the case of Shell-Bellambi I expect that the Foreign Investment Review Board will make its recommendations accordingly. 
-I think it goes without saying that Australians generally are more optimistic about their Christmas this year than they have been for a number of years. This is due to the effects and results of wise government management in bringing about economic recovery and greater enthusiasm for this country. As far as some of the less fortunate people in the community are concerned- such as pensioners- I am happy to inform the House that before Christmas the full age pension for a single person will increase by $4.70 a week, and for a married couple it will go up by $7.80 a week. Between now and Christmas all eligible pensioners will get an increase, totalling approximately $270m in 1979-80. Of course those people can look forward to a further increase in May next year as a result of the six-monthly indexation of pensions. The working man, the taxpayer on average weekly earnings, can also look forward to a tax cut of  $4.45  a week on 1 December. That is certainly some encouragement to the working person and it shows that this Government wants to reduce taxation as much as possible. 
There are other encouraging signs in the economy, particularly from the buoyant rural sector. The gross value of output of the rural industries has risen by 60 per cent in the last two years. It is estimated that our export earnings from rural products this year will be $7,400m- up from $6 billion in the previous year. It is likely that real income per farm has doubled in the last two years. Results of surveys that have recently been done in the manufacturing sector are also the most optimistic that we have seen for a number of years. In manufacturing and mining, investment projects are committed or are in the pipeline where feasibility studies have been carried out. In October this year it was estimated that approximately $ 1 6.3 billion worth of projects either was about to be commenced or would be commenced in the near future. 
This is a tremendous outlook for this country. I believe that everybody can look forward to the 1980s and a much more optimistic future than they have seen for a long time. This sort of investment taking place means that there will be more job opportunities. I hope that school leavers will find opportunities to get jobs as a result of the improved economic circumstances, particularly in the rural and industrial sectors of this community. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) A report on radiation levels at Narbalek has been sent to the Uranium Advisory Council for its information. 
No. The Foreign Investment Review Board has the responsibility for advising the Government on foreign investment matters generally, as well as examining and advising on individual foreign investment proposals which come within the ambit of the Goverment 's foreign investment policy. 
See answer to Question No. 4684  (Hansard,  17 October 1979, pages 2 162-2 163). 
I can assure the honourable member that there is no similarity between 
Labor's policies, or the policies of the de facto leader of the Labor Party, and those of our side of the House. Indeed, those honourable members who were in this House during the period that Labor was in office will remember the bitterness that existed between the State parliaments and the Federal Parliament. I believe that one of the major reasons for the downfall of the Whitlam Government was the very tense relationships that had developed between the States and the Commonwealth and the annoyance of the Australian public at large over the continual confrontation that was going on between the Commonwealth and the States. Since coming to office, we have endeavoured to take a co-operative approach with the States and we have done this in relation to a whole series of issues by sitting down with them. We have been able to get agreement on various areas of administration. This approach has been extremely successful. 
The relationships between the Federal Government and the States today are wholesome and sound. That is not to say that there are not differences of opinion from time to time. But I believe that under our Federal system and our Constitution, where distinct lines of responsibility are drawn, the interests of the Australian people can best be accommodated by the Commonwealth and the States and, indeed, local government authorities, all working together. It is quite clear that the Labor Party is hell bent on having centralised power, and abolishing the State parliaments. It adopts the subterfuge of saying that it will give additional powers to local government or regional bodies. The whole attitude of the Labor Party illustrates its socialist approach, its doctrinaire approach, of having absolute control here in Canberra and being able to override the authority of other bodies in Australia. That is certainly not our belief. We believe that this country can be managed best by delegating responsibility to those people who are spread throughout the Commonwealth and who are closer to the people. 
I would like to say how very pleased I was to hear the news that there had been another oil discovery in the Surat area. The size of it is yet to be determined. I think most of us will recall that the first discovery of oil in Australia was near this region, at Roma, in the 1950s. It was that early discovery that gave an impetus to oil exploration in Australia. As a result we found some at Barrow Island and then in Bass Strait. I think this discovery indicates some of the Government's efforts to encourage people to look for more oil. Exploration is a high nsk business venture and therefore people need some encouragement and some confidence if they are to look for oil. Without doubt the single most important thing that we have done has been to adopt a pricing policy that ensures that people who find oil in Australia can get a price comparable to what they could get if they discovered it elsewhere in the world. That is the policy of import parity prices. 
During the life of this Government, we have also announced a number of taxation measures to give an incentive to oil companies to look for oil and develop fields. There are encouraging depreciation allowances for taxation purposes. We have also given a tax rebate for off-shore oil exploration. In the Budget this rebate was extended to on-shore search. I believe that the operations of the company making the discovery at Surat would have been greatly helped by that recent decision. The discovery indicates that small companies searching on-shore may find oil. We would certainly like to see more companies, particularly Australian companies, being formed to look for oil. If they can find it they will be making a major contribution to solving Australia's energy problems. 
-My colleague the Minister for Industrial Relations has just outlined comprehensively the Commonwealth's attitude to the report of the joint working group setting out its proposals for administering the New South Wales oil industry. That working group suggested that there ought to be joint sittings of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the New South Wales Industrial Commission. We have accepted this approach in principle but there will no doubt have to be a good deal of consultation as to the details. My colleague is undertaking discussions with the New South Wales Minister for Industrial Relations in trying to draw up the necessary legislation that will have to be put into effect to make this approach operative. 
I think everybody appreciates the very grave seriousness of the situation in New South Wales. If this strike continues at Kurnell and Matraville and if legislation is required to be introduced, New South Wales will be put into a very serious oil supply situation. That situation will be reflected across the whole of the Commonwealth. Therefore, we want to co-operate however we can to see that there is satisfactory authority for the administration of the oil industry in New South Wales. Therefore, if while interim arrangements are being worked out it is found necessary to bring down emergency legislation, the Commonwealth will give consideration to calling the Parliament together during the recess to see that that legislation is passed. The Parliament will be rising in a week's time. We do not want to see that in any way as being a hurdle to preventing such an authority from coming into operation if it is considered necessary. 
-As this matter falls within my ministerial jurisdiction, I will answer the question. To the best of my knowledge, and I have heard this allegation made before, it is just a lot of nonsense. 
Pursuant to section 19 (1) of the Ombudsman Act 1976 I present the annual report of the Commonwealth Ombudsman 1979. 
Previously I have answered questions in this House regarding the countercyclical legislation which we have fought against and tried to persuade the American Administration not to enact. However, pressures in the United States were such that the Administration felt that counter-cyclical legislation needed to go through. The legislation will apply in the United States only if the cattle herd of that country increases to a certain extent. Then the mechanism will then come into play. It is not expected that the mechanism is likely to come into play in the near future. It would probably be as far ahead as three or four years, if it were to come into action. 
The floor level of the counter-cyclical legislation is 1.25 billion lb or approximately 567,000 tonnes of meat, which is still a very large figure. Therefore, we know that we will get access for that amount of meat. However, under the multilateral trade negotiations I was able to get a commitment out of the Americans to allow a slightly higher figure than that- 1.3 billion lb. Should Australian exports fall below 1.3 billion lb the Americans will have to make some adjustments to their tariff arrangements to pay us for the costs of reducing our exports to 1 .25 billion lb. 
I do not believe that there is any reason for the Australian meat industry at this time to be concerned. I do not believe that the legislation will have any bearing on Australian exports to the United States in the immediate future. Anybody purporting to say that it is drastic legislation which will have serious consequences is, I think, exaggerating the circumstances. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the unclassified version of the report of the Protective Security Review. I seek leave to make a short statement. 
Leave granted. 
Honourable members will recall that, following the bombing at the Sydney Hilton Hotel in February last year,  Mr Justice  Hope of the New South Wales Supreme Court was appointed to conduct a review of the whole area of protective security in Australia.  Mr Justice  Hope has now completed his task and recently presented his report to the Government. The review has been both comprehensive and wideranging, involving discussions not only at the Commonwealth level, but with Ministers and officials of all the States and the Northern Territory, as well as with officials in the United Kingdom, Europe and North America.  Mr Justice  Hope received full co-operation from all these persons and the Commonwealth Government joins with him in thanking them for their assistance. I record the Government's appreciation of the valuable contribution that  Mr Justice  Hope 's review has made to our consideration of the important field of protective security. 
The report, parts of which are classified, looks at counter-terrorist machinery in Australia and the considerations relevant to the effective relationships between law enforcement and intelligence authorities at both the Commonwealth and State levels, the arrangements and procedures for handling terrorist incidents, the protection of VIPs, the use of the Defence Force in civilian security situations, and protective and security arrangements in Commonwealth departments and authorities. The report will provide a basis on which the Commonwealth, State and Northern Territory governments will be able to work together better in matters of protective security and counter-terrorism. To this end the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has written to the premiers and to the Chief Minister of the Northern Territory passing to them copies of the full classified report. In view of the importance of this report, and in accordance with the bipartisan approach that is appropriate to matters of this nature, the Prime Minister has also sent a copy of the full classified report to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  so that he may be fully informed on the issues. The report, of course, represents the findings of a completely independent review and its views are not necessarily those of the Government. It will be appreciated that the findings of the review have implications for a wide range of government bodies- Federal, State and Territorial. There are many matters flowing from the report on which consultation and co-operation with State and Territory governments will be necessary. We will be following these matters up with the States and the Northern Territory. 
Honourable members will see that the report makes many references to the Standing Advisory Committee on Commonwealth-State Cooperation for Protection Against Violence. We attach very considerable importance to this joint Commonwealth-State body and share the view of  Mr Justice  Hope that much can be achieved through it. It has already produced useful results. The first issue to be decided has been the extent to which the text of the report may be made public, and  Mr Justice  Hope has made recommendations in this regard.  Mr Justice  Hope also stated the view, which we endorse, that as much of the material in the report be published as is possible without endangering security or the public interest. The Government has therefore prepared an unclassified version of the report which takes the Judge's recommendations very closely into account. In this respect it will be recalled that the Government followed  Mr Justice  Hope's recommendations regarding publication of the reports of his Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security in 1 977. The approach of the Government in handling this report is similar to that taken in respect of the reports of the Royal Commission, the substance of which has since been implemented. 
For the information of honourable members I table the unclassified version of the report of the Protective Security Review. Honourable members will see that the report's findings cover a wide field and I should say that positive steps have been taken to ensure that these are considered promptly and adequately. Decisions will be taken progressively as advice is available. There are some areas where we have already taken action upon the findings of the report. In some other cases the judge 's inquiries themselves stimulated action and his views were available in respect of a number of matters under consideration by the Government. One of the central themes that flows from the report is the need for greater co-operation between the authorities involved in protective security. Improvements are desirable in this area, and steps have been taken to effect them, but a report such as this has the beneficial effect of hastening progress. 
Honourable members will note the report's proposals for legislative changes dealing with the use of the Defence Force in aid of civilian security raise very significant constitutional, legal, civil rights and practical issues. These are being carefully studied by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  and the law officers. There will also need to be consultation with the States which will clearly have an interest in these proposals. As the report has demonstrated the need for some revision of existing statutory provisions, the Government will as quickly as possible reach a decision as to what legislative action should be taken. But I stress the principle of the primacy of the civil power. Another aspect that I might mention is the report's comments on crisis management, another area with a major Federal-State component. The Commonwealth endorses the general rule, enunciated by  Mr Justice  Hope, that in any battle against terror the local law enforcement authorities in the normal processes of the criminal law must be in the vanguard. 
The report's comments on crisis management are consistent with and in effect endorse the contingency planning arrangements and other proposals that are being or have been developed in association between the relevant Commonwealth, State and Northern Territory authorities. Further, insofar as they affect policy matters, the review's proposals are in accord with policy planning for the Australian Federal Police. Honourable members will see that the report has given government authorities- Federal, State and Territorial- much to examine and reflect upon. It also provides a most valuable opportunity, which this Government will not let pass, to establish and maintain effective relationships with the State and Northern Territory governments in the field of protective security. 
It is doing one's job according to the Constitution. 
The Department of Finance has provided the following information in answer to the honourable member's question:  (l)(a) In 1978-79 retirement benefits paid from Consolidated Revenue under the Superannuation Act 1922 and the Superannuation Act 1976 totalled $337.8m. Of this amount, approximately $72.0m was in respect of benefits financed by the contributions of employees who had retired or died. During the year, the following amounts were paid to Consolidated Revenue in relation to the Superannuation Act 1922 and the Superannuation Act 1976: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister for National Development to his Question No. 4328  (Hansard, 6  November 1979, pages 2657-8). 
-I think that we all welcomed very much the announcement this morning by 
Esso Exploration and Production Australia Incorporated of its intention to spend some $13m in a very extensive exploration for oil and gas in the Galilee Basin in central Queensland. I am sure that the reason for its being prepared to invest such large amounts of risk capital is the policies of this Government, which have encouraged a greater amount of exploration to take place. That has happened because of the pricing policy. I noticed that Esso said that because of the profits it was making in Bass Strait it was able to plough back money into more exploration in Australia. So, in effect, the pricing policy is achieving what we aimed for it to do. It had five essential purposes. The first was to try to recover as much oil as possible from producing wells. Another was to encourage more exploration, and this is obviously what the policy is doing. It was to discourage the wasting of petroleum. It was to foster more rational decisions in the use of various energy sources. It was also to give encouragement to people to do research into alternative types of fuel. I think it is fair enough to say that the pricing policy is having its effect and is the only realistic policy to follow if we want to get the maximum exploration possible and the greatest use of alternative resources. 
If we reflect for a moment on what was happening during the period the Australian Labor Party was in office, we will recall that its policies were an absolute disaster. We saw an encouraging exploration program which operated during the 1960s and the early 1970s virtually die away to nothing during Labor's period of office. I believe that that was one of the most tragic legacies that the Labor Party left behind. If more exploration had been carried on recently who knows, we might have found more oil and been in a very favoured position in relation to self-sufficiency. It is only now, with our new approach and new policies, that we are starting to catch up to the state of affairs that existed in 1 972. We certainly do not want to discourage people from looking for oil, to drive exploration groups away from this country and to put ourselves into such a hazardous position as we were in during the unfortunate years of Labor government. 
In relation to the present court proceedings against those people who are alleged to have defrauded the Department of Social Security, I consider that is a sub judice matter and I do not intend to make any comment. As far as the behaviour of Ministers concerned with this affair is concerned, I accept that they have done their jobs in the highest traditions of this Parliament. 
I am sure that the Prime Minister will welcome the good wishes of this Parliament, although I must question whether it is good therapy for him to know that we are all thinking of him. I did have the opportunityalong with some of my colleagues- this morning to talk with the Prime Minister. I report that he is in very good heart and indeed looks much better than he did when I saw him a couple of weeks ago. In fact, he was very much on the ball and was not hesitant in giving his opinion on many matters. I think it is fair enough to say that his recuperation has not been as rapid as he would have hoped. I think he doubts very much the wisdom of his attendance at the Victorian Liberal Party conference at the weekend because it did take a toll of him. I think anybody would recognise that a normal human being who has pleurisy and pneumonia is told automatically by the doctor to take six weeks off. It seems to me that if one is a public figure then one is expected to get better overnight. I can assure the House that the Prime Minister looks well and is recovering. I hope that he will be back on duty soon. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am aware that certain estimates of the purported cost of public sector superannuation schemes have been made, including the estimate quoted by the honourable member. It is not clear how the figure of $16 per week has been derived. While information on the cost of State Government schemes is not readily available, the current cost of all public sector schemes would be expected to be significantly less than the amount which, when related to the number of individual taxpayers, gave rise to the estimate referred to. In this connection I invite the honourable member's attention to the answer provided to part ( 1) (a) of his Question No. 3496 in relation to expenditure in 1 978-79 under the Superannuation Act 1922 and the Superannuation Act 1976.I also draw the honourable member's attention to an answer provided by my colleague the Treasurer in reply to Question No. 2552  (Hansard,  House of Representatives, 24 November 1978, page 3499). 
In relation to the second pan of the honourable gentleman's question, I refer him to the statement made by my colleague the Treasurer on 12 July 1979 concerning the Government's decisions in relation to the final report of the National Superannuation Committee of Inquiry. 
-The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
The concept of a Treaty of Peace and Friendship has been advanced by a group of non- Aboriginals called the Aboriginal Treaty Committee. A proposal for a treaty of commitment had been advanced earlier by the National Aboriginal Conference. However, that proposal is still very much in its embryonic stages. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs will be meeting the National Executive of the National Aboriginal Conference for a preliminary discussion in November. I have indicated my willingness to meet with the National Aboriginal Conference at an appropriate time to discuss the proposal should it wish to do so. I understand that the National Aboriginal Conference desires further time to develop the concept in consultation with Aboriginal people. 
There are no plans at present to refer the matter to a committee of the Parliament. 
-The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
I am not aware of any statement by the Queensland Premier in the terms indicated. The Commonwealth position on the payment of award wages has been made clear many times previously and is that Aboriginals are entitled to, and should receive the same rates of pay as other Australians. The Queensland Industrial Court, on 29 May 1979, directed the Queensland Government to pay award wages to Aboriginals employed on reserves. 
On 6 August 1979 the Queensland Industrial Commission directed the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement to conduct a survey of Aboriginals employed on all Queensland reserves. Thus survey is to include the work covered by awards and the estimated additional cost of paying award wages. Further consideration will be given to this question when the results of the survey are available. 
-For the benefit of honourable members, I point out that there has been an Industries Assistance Commission report on the question of Woodsreef Mines. This report is before the Government for consideration. 
-From the tone of the question of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition I take it that he is not in favour of the Government's proposition that we are putting to the States for them to bring forward proposals whereby the Commonwealth might assist in underwriting loan moneys for the development of further electric power generation based on coal. I cannot think of any greater national project that would be of more benefit during this energy crisis period than the development of electricity, both as an alternative to oil power and also to give greater opportunity to Austraiian industry to capitalise on this cheaper form of energy. Already the States have very ambitious electricity programs and much of this additional power will be taken up by decisions that have already been made to develop aluminium smelters. In the course of this year important decisions have been made by international aluminium companies to smelt part of their alumina in this country. 
The decisions are of great magnitude and are of enormous significance to this country. Indeed, today we are exporting about $250m worth of aluminium a year. By the time these new projects come on stream, which will be within a period of five years, we will be exporting something like $2, 500m worth of aluminium, thus adding to the economic strength of this country and creating great job opportunities for many people. Realising that the decisions that have been taken will capture and utilise most of the power generation already programmed, we believe that there is virtue in giving encouragement to State electricity authorities to look even further ahead. If the States have programs that they believe are worthy of consideration, they might bring them forward at the Premiers' Conference. 
I am very well aware of the damage that has been caused by plague proportions of kangaroos in some parts of New South Wales, Queensland and, indeed, other States. There is a great misunderstanding of the situation by many people. The  President  of the National Farmers Federation,  Mr Don  Eckersley, has written to me about the matter which the honourable member raised, asking the Commonwealth to take some action to see whether the Americans might lift their ban on imports of kangaroo products into that country. I might inform the honourable member that over the years a series of representations has been made by my Department to various United States government agencies to try to get a greater recognition of the situation in Australia. 
I know that for many people this is a very emotional question. The fact that the kangaroo is our national symbol generates particular feelings in people, but I really do not think that to preserve our national symbol we need to have great masses of kangaroos moving across the country causing great destruction to people's crops and properties. There has been an abnormal increase in the numbers of kangaroos in this country because of the availability of additional water facilities. When we get dry periods in this country the plague proportions of kangaroos become ever so much more obvious. I believe that with successful culling and with proper management and conservation programs a balance can be reached between conserving our kangaroos and being able to limit their numbers. We should be able to limit their numbers in a way in which they are not just left to rot but in which some commercial benefits can be obtained during the course of the culling program. I am hopeful that the United States will see our point of view and will recognise that we have a problem in this country which it can help to alleviate by allowing us to export some of our kangaroo products to that country. As I said, representations have been made and it is my hope that the United States might take a softer approach to the problem. 
by leave- Honourable members will recall that in May this year the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  and I outlined to the House in broad detail the bilateral settlements concluded with the United States, Japan and the European Community. I indicated in September, also in the House, that the Government would release the texts of those bilateral settlements once some important adjustments to the original settlements were concluded and some outstanding negotiations were completed. Although some minor settlements still have to be formally completed, in the light of public interest in this matter, and the fact that the concessions negotiated will become operative from 1 January 1980, I am taking this opportunity to table for the information of the House the texts of the settlements concluded with the United States, the European Economic Community and Japan. 
The benefits accruing to Australia from these arrangements have already been described to the House on a number of occasions. However, I feel it would be useful to draw the attention of honourable members to some aspects of the tariff concessions Australia has agreed to implement. It will be noted that most of the tariff concessions are common to all the settlements. In a debate in September I informed the House that Australia had agreed in the bilateral negotiations to bind against increasing the tariff rates on about 120 tariff headings or parts of tariff headings covering agricultural and industrial products. With the exception of three items- namely tobacco, certain fancy cheese and an item relating to frozen poultry- the tariff rates are at or above current applied rates. This means that Australia has achieved a meaningful and advantageous settlement with the United States, EEC and Japan without reducing the current level of tariff protection on a single tariff item applicable to any manufacturing industry. In practical terms, this means that the Government has been able to secure its major industrial tariff objective for the Multilateral Trade Negotiations of gaining full and off-setting benefits for the 25 per cent tariff cut implemented in 1973. This was, I believe- I am sure industry agrees with me- a commendable result. 
In the case of fancy cheese, the types which will be admitted at the lower rates are set out in the arrangement with the EEC. Administrative details are being worked out to ensure that only the cheeses described can benefit from the concession. These details will be announced when suitable certification is determined. As well as the bilateral settlements just mentioned, Australia also agreed in the context of negotiations with developing countries to bind some 40 tariff items. The Government's decision on these items was announced on 29 December 1976 and the rates have been operative since 1 January 1977. After the negotiations with the United States were completed in March this year, developments in the United States Congress in regard to the meat import law resulted in the need for some additional clarification and adjustments in the new situation. In September 1979 I announced that high-level discussions with United States officials had taken place and a mutually satisfactory accommodation had been achieved. The assurances and changes involved are set out in an exchange of letters between the United States Special Trade Representative and me, and these form part of the settlement with the United States. The modifications involved, where relevant, have been negotiated into the other settlements and will be reflected in the Australian General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade schedule. 
In coming weeks the Government will be considering the position Australia should take on the various codes of conduct negotiated in the MTN. As decisions are reached on the question of Australian participation in each code, announcements will be made as to our intentions. The announcement of these decisions, and the subsequent tabling of settlements with other countries which are still being finalised, will bring to formal conclusion Australia's participation in the Tokyo round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations. I have said many times before that the results of the MTN have fallen short of 
Australia's expectations, especially in the area of agricultural export subsidies and commodity trading. This is a matter for continuing disappointment, and I regret that the major trading nations were not disposed to do more in this area. We do not intend to have the matter rest there, merely because the MTN is concluded. Indeed, Australia will continue to press for improved trading conditions for agricultural products, both in international discussions and in bilateral discussions with our trading partners. Despite the shortcomings in the area of agriculture, the MTN has helped strengthen the resolve of the trading nations to avoid more protectionist approaches to trade. The reduction in tariffs and the opening up of quotas for key agricultural products should provide at least some stimulus to world trade. If the work commenced in the MTN can be continued into the 1980s, as we hope and expect, there can be further improvements in the conduct of world trade from which Australia will inevitably benefit. I present the following paper: 
Australia's Bilateral Settlements with the European Economic Community, Japan and the United States of America in the Multilateral Trade Negotiations- Ministerial Statement, 21 November 1979. 
Motion ( by  Mr Viner)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
In accordance with the statement of 23 January 1979, arrangements for the proposed study of the feasibility of undertaking commercial uranium enrichment in Australia are being discussed with State Governments, the Northern Territory Government and private industry. Consultations are also proceeding with potential collaborators including the Governments of France, Japan, the United States and the Urenco/Centec organisation. 
This would be a matter for those who will undertake the proposed study to consider. 
There is also considerable scope for the discovery of additional high-grade deposits in Australia. A recently completed international study- 'World Uranium Potential An International Evaluation' (OECD-NEA/IAEA, December 1978) estimates that the speculative resources of the Australian and Oceania area range from 2,000,000 to 3,000,000 tonnes of uranium. The great majority of these speculative resources are believed to be located in Australia. 
In reaching its decisions on the further development of Australia's unraium resources the Government had special regard to the issues of nuclear non-proliferation and world energy requirements. The possible deferral of the plutonium economy was one of the considerations of the Government in reaching its decision to allow the further development of Australia's uranium resources. While some countries plan to establish or keep open the option of using fast breeder reactors and the associated fuel cycle, the economic incentive to turn to them will decrease if secure supplies of uranium are available at fair and reasonable prices. 
Only as a major exporter of uranium is Australia in a position to exert influence and to take initiatives to strengthen nuclear safeguards whilst supplying essential sources of energy to an energy-deficient world. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The RAAF B707 aircraft was travelling to Lagos to pick up the Prime Minister and members of his party for the flight to Lusaka. The Minister for Foreign Affairs had completed important disucssions in London and with Commonwealth Leaders in Tanzania and Kenya. He returned to Lagos on the aircraft so that issues relating to the Commonwealth meeting could be discussed between him and the Prime Minister during the flight to Lusaka. 
to (5) All charges for ministerial travel in the RAAF B707 relating to the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in Lusaka will be met by the Department of Administrative Services under Division 140. The aircraft charges cannot be confirmed as all accounts for operating costs for the visit have not yet been finalised. 
I present the report of the Committee of Inquiry concerning Public Duty and Private Interest and seek leave to make a statement. 
I ask that all questions be placed on the Notice Paper. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3) See answer to Question No. 4624. 

 -Mr Speaker, as we prepare to leave this House to spend some time in our electorates and with our families and friends for the Christmas season I wish to convey to all members my very best wishes. I hope that they have a very good break and will return refreshed in the New Year. 
It is not inappropriate to note that as we prepare to leave the House we cannot help looking around the world and seeing a great deal of concern. There is certainly no reason for any calmness or complacency. At the moment there are very real tensions, particularly in the Islamic world. There are tensions between nations that must be of great concern to all of us. Many lives are endangered. There are enormous difficulties in Asia. There are continuing problems in Africa. I know that all members will join with me in expressing concern at the serious wounding of an Australian journalist,  Mr Tony  Joyce, in an accident in Zambia yesterday. As we prepare for the Christmas season, the season of goodwill, we must all fervently hope that reason and sense will prevail, that tensions will ease, that men and women of goodwill will be able to comprehend the dangers in the present situation and that compromise and solutions will be found to their many problems. 

 Mr Speaker, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  cannot be with us today, as you know, but I think I could express on behalf of all his colleagues- indeed, everybody in this chamber their wishes to him for a quick and speedy recovery. It is bad enough being sick at any time, but for a person in a high public position, carrying enormous responsibilities, it is very difficult to be able to free oneself from those responsibilities, free oneself to the extent that is necessary for convalescence when one has been damaged by illness. I know that he would like me to thank all of those people who have served the Parliament so efficiently and with so much dedication this year. Firstly, I would like to thank you,  Mr Speaker,  for the excellent job that you have done as  Speaker  of this Parliament. You distinguished yourself by the very dignified way in which you hold that great office. You have had a very busy year. I know sometimes it has been somewhat turbulent, but with your unfailing good humour you have always been able to bring the House back to its senses. You have been ably backed up by the  Chairman  of Committees, the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  who on a number of occasions has had to sit in for you and has done an admirable job. He too has been supported by the Temporary Chairmen who have done an excellent job with the workings of this chamber. 
I would like to put on record appreciation of the work of the  Clerk  of the House and his officers. They provide great assistance and indeed very wise advice. Anybody from outside who might think that there are some apparent and obvious deficiencies in this Parliament must recognise that the situation would be absolutely impossible without the assistance of the  Clerk  and his officers. I would like to thank the staff of the Table Office for their assistance to us all. To the Parliamentary Liaison Officer, John Fox, who took over from Roger Webb during the sittings, I express my thanks for his work in making the House function so smoothly. But there are many, many people who help in the workings of Parliament and we owe them thanks. The Librarian  Mr Weir,  and his staff;  Hansard,  led by  Mr Kerr;  the Joint House Department, under its Secretary  Mr Donnelly;  the First Parliamentary Counsel,  Mr Quayle  and his staff; the attendants; dining room staff; transport officers; and all of those people who make life possible in this place. I would also like to mention those silent members in the Australian Broadcasting Commission box who spread the activities of this Parliament right across the nation and whom we so often tend to overlook. 
I would like to thank especially the members of the Public Service who not only serve Ministers but all members as well. I believe that in this country we have a Public Service that we can be extremely proud of, a band of dedicated, efficient, skilled people who serve their nation and, in many cases, they serve with real distinction. To my ministerial colleagues who carry so many burdens of office- far greater burdens than most people realise and I think that one has to experience being a Minister to realise the extent of responsibility they carry- I offer my thanks and the thanks of the Prime Minister for their loyalty, their support and their co-operation, and indeed their hard work. I am proud of being part of a ministerial team, part of the Government team, and I know that all my ministerial colleagues are, too. To all my party colleagues in the Liberal Party and the National Country Party I offer my thinks for their support, co-operation and for their work in the Parliament, in the committees and in many other ways. Appreciation also goes to the Whips of both the Liberal Party and my own party for keeping us in an orderly state. To the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr 
Hayden) and to all of his colleagues, may I express my thanks for their contribution to the work of Parliament and my good wishes for the Christmas period and the year ahead. 

 Mr Speaker, I believe that the great majority of Australians can look forward to 1980 with a great deal more optimism and confidence than they have been able to contemplate for any year for some time. The world faces many difficulties, political problems, economic problems, the threat of conflict and the realities of human misery on a very large scale. Australia, despite its own problems, is indeed a fortunate country. Australians are fortunate people and I only hope that their goodwill will be accompanied by a sense of responsibility. We do have a responsibility to the rest of the world, a responsibility we can exercise in many ways by providing the world with food and fibre, providing the world with energy and raw materials, and by responding in a humanitarian way to the plight of the world's poor and hungry people, to the world's refugees, especially at the moment in places like Indo-China, and to the people of Timor. These are some of the matters we need to think of at this time of the year. Indeed, we should think of them at all times. 
To you,  Mr Speaker,  and to all honourable members, I express the hope that you have a very restful and enjoyable Christmas and holiday break and that you all return next year ready to cope with the demands, challenges and responsibilities of another year of public duty. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Japan is a major market for a range of Australian agricultural commodities including wool, sugar, meat, wheat, canned and dried fruits, honey and dairy products. 
With certain of these commodities access to the Japanese market is subject to quantitative export restrictions. The Government has negotiated to secure more liberal access to the Japanese market for these commodities and in the context of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations, obtained improved access for beef and tariff bindings on a number of other rural based products. 
In addition the Government undertakes a vigorous trade promotional campaign in Japan for primary products. Funds provided for these activities include allocations by the Overseas Trade Publicity Committee, direct contributions by the various producer Boards and Corporations, and funds provided for this purpose to the Trade Commissioners in Tokyo and Osaka. The total for 1978-79 was $1,122,723 which represented a 1 7.8 per cent increase over the previous year. 
The level and nature of promotional activity for Australian primary products in Japan is kept under continuous review. At the same time every opportunity to expand sales of these products in the Japanese market is vigorously pursued. 
The Department of Trade and Resources has supplied the following statistics showing exports of primary products to Japan in 1978-79. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A number of positions has been allocated in the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet for activities devoted to some aspect of the marketing, use, supervision, control and assessment of Australia's uranium ore and/or the products, services and activities derived from its existence. It is estimated that in 1978-79 the salaries and other administrative expenses represented 1.8 per cent of the costs of administration of the Depanment. 
It is estimated that in 1979-80 the costs described above will represent 1.3 per cent of the costs of administration of the Depanment of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
Activities related to uranium matters have been undertaken by a number of officers of the Depanment of the Prime Minister and Cabinet from time to time as pan of their normal duties. It is not practicable to provide a satisfactory estimate of the costs of these activities. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A number of positions have been allocated in my Depanment specifically for activities devoted to some aspect of the marketing, use, supervision, control and assessment of Australia's uranium ore and/or the products, services and activities derived from its existence. In addition an Australian Uranium Export Office and a Uranium Advisory Council have been established. The direct costs of operating these two organisations appear separately in the appropriations of my Depanment. 
It is estimated that in 1979-80 the total salaries and other administrative expenses of these activities would represent 3.3 per cent of the costs of administration of my Depanment. I would expect the costs to remain at much the same level in future years. Only those items of appropriation dealing with the general administration of the Depanment have been included in the base figure as costs of administration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I am aware of the suggestion that there are anomalies and inequities under the Defence Forces Retirements Benefits Scheme, and these have been among the subjects investigated by the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirements Benefits Legislation and the R. N. Bonnett Enquiry into the Defence Forces Retirements Benefit Act 1948. 
and (4) Copies of the R. N. Bonnett Report are available in the Parliamentary Library and the Table Office. 
See the statement in the House of Representatives by the Minister for Defence on 20 November 1979  (Hansard,  pages 3 187-8). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) At the Fifth United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD V) in Manila, the Prime Minister indicated Australia's continued support for the Common Fund. In particular, he pledged that Australia would make an effective contribution to the Second Window and urged other countries to do likewise. 
I am not in a position at this time to estimate what Australia 's financial commitment to the Common Fund will be. (a) The basis of assessing the mandatory contributions to the First Window has not as yet been determined and is the subject of continuing discussions, (b) Contributions to the Second Window will be on a voluntary basis and Australia has refrained from making any specific offer until such time as the actual scope of the operations of the Second Window and an appropriate cost-sharing formula has been determined. Most other countries have adopted this position. We have however joined that group of countries firmly committing themselves to financial contributions to both the First and Second Windows. 
The following contributions have been promised to the funds by countries other than Australia: 
Philippines-$US50m of which $25m is for the Second Window. 
India-$US25m of which $5m is for the Second Window. 
Indonesia- $US25m of which $lm is for the Second Window. 
Malaysia- $US 1 m for the Second Window. 
Thailand-$US1m for the Second Window. 
Singapore- $US250,000 for the Second Window. 
Yugoslavia- $US30m for the Common Fund as a whole. 
Costa Rica- $US 1 m for the Common Fund as a whole. 
Kenya- $US 1 m for the Common Fund as a whole. 
Norway-$US25m of which $22m is for the Second Window. 
Netherlands-$US25m of which $ 1 7m is for the Second Window. 
Sweden-$US5.5m for the Second Window. 
Belgium-$US6.Sm of which $3m is for the Second Window. 
Denmark-$US2.3m for the Second Window. 
Austria- $US2m for the Second Window. 
Finland-$US2m for the Second Window. 
OPEC-$US 100m to the Common Fund as a whole. 
In addition, the following countries have undertaken to make contributions to the Common Fund without specifying the amount or which window they may wish to have their contribution directed to: Australia, Canada, China, Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Japan, Luxembourg, Mexico, Republic of Korea, Switzerland, United Kingdom. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Exports of uranium concentrates have taken place from Townsville, Brisbane and Sydney. 
and (3) The total quantity of uranium concentrates exported from Australia from 197S to 12 November 1979 is of the order of 4,000 short tons of uranium concentrates valued in excess of $200m, of which less than 2,000 short tons have been drawn from the Commonwealth's uranium stockpile. 
Customer countries have been Japan, the United States and the Federal Republic of Germany where, in each case, the uranium has been used for electricity power generation. 
These exports are being converted to uranium hexafluoride either in the United Kingdom, Canada or the United States; enrichment is taking place in the United States. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) As indicated in the answer to Question No. 1649 (Senate  Hansard,  21 August 1979, page 72), the Commonwealth has entered into a standard contract for this commission. The following fees were paid for portraits of other parliamentarians and distinguished Australians which have been commissioned or acquired by the Historic Memorials Committee since 1973: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the reference to the former mining operations at Rum Jungle on page 6 of the first report of the Uranium Advisory Council which I tabled in Parliament on 1 3 September 1979 (Daily  Hansard,  pages 1085-87). I also refer the honourable member to the Ministerial statement on uranium development I made on 25 August 1977. In that statement I made it clear that there will be no more projects like Rum Jungle. The operations at Rum Jungle reflected environmental attitudes of 25 years ago which Australians would not tolerate today. 
The Government's policy in respect of uranium development takes fully into account the need for environmental protection. Development approval for particular projects will only be given following, amongst other things, completion of the necessary environmental requirements. As indicated in my statement of 13 September 1979 on the tabling of the first report of the Uranium Advisory Council, the Government does seek the views of the Council on the development of individual uranium projects. I have referred to the Council Pancontinental Mining Limited 's final environmental impact statement on the Jabiluka project together with the comments, suggestions and recommendations provided by the Minister for Science and the Environment under the Environment Protection Administrative Procedures of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974. lt is my intention to do the same in respect of Noranda Australia Limited 's Koongarra project and of other proposals for uranium development. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Lists are not kept which would precisely answer the question asked by the honourable member but appointments to the positions indicated in his question are usually announced publicly at the time they are made. Appointments to judicial positions, diplomatic and trade posts and membership of statutory authorities are listed in the Commonwealth Directory. 
To compile lists in the form requested by the honourable member would constitute an additional call on resources at a time when staff resources in Departments are limited. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is not a list in existence which would answer precisely the question the honourable member asks about the birth dates of appointees to statutory authorities and corporations. To compile such a list would require considerable checking with authorities. If the honourable member has a specific authority in mind and would care to indicate it, I shall see what can be done to provide the relevant information. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The circumstances of  Mr Miller's  resignations from directorship of Qantas and from his membership of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation are explained in the answer to Question No. 4836  (Hansard,  of 14 November 1979, page 3047). For technical reasons,  Mr Miller's  resignation from Qantas did not become effective until 2 May 1979 but his resignation from the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation was treated as effective from 16 March 1979, the date on which  Mr Sinclair  had announced that he had accepted it. 
Yes. 
See answer to (2 ) above. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Since that time there has been a continuing process of negotiation between the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments at Ministerial and official levels on matters relevant to the report. It would be premature to respond to the recommendations contained in the report until these negotiations are completed. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has recently explained in the Senate that the Report has been the subject of debate and that he is hopeful of a definitive statement to Parliament early in the new year. (See Senate  Hansard,  14 November 1979, page 2241 ). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Costs incurred to mid-October 1979 amount to approximately $180,000. Further planned work is expected to cost an additional $100,000. In accordance with the long established practice (see my predecessor's answer to Question No. 3165, House of Representatives  Hansard,  4 November 1975, page 2776) I do not propose to provide separate figures for individual residences. 
Security measures which have been taken and which will continue to be taken are those assessed as appropriate in the circumstances by officials responsible for security matters. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Transport and some accommodation was provided by the Council. 

 Mr E. M. Anderson, Assistant Secretary, Impact Assessment No. 1 Branch, Department of Science and the Environment. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Ministers were asked to check material prepared by the Liberal Party Secretariat 
) The Liberal Party Secretariat was asked to give a high priority to the project 
to (9) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's remarks made in response to question No. 1593  (Hansard,  14 November 1978, p. 2790). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am aware of various views, both from within Australia and from overseas, on the market outlook for uranium in the short and long term. The Australian uranium industry has a dynamic growth potential and undoubtedly has a very important role in supplying essential base loads for electricity generation in many countries. Earlier this month the first contracts since December 1972 were signed providing for the export of 2,500 short tons of uranium concentrates over the period 1983 to 1992. These contracts are worth, at present day prices, a total of some $A 1 60m to $A 1 80m. 
The answere to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Commonwealth Government agreed in October 1978 to contribute over the 15 month period to 31 December 1979 up to $1.4m, to be matched by funds to at least that amount by the New South Wales Government, for on lending to the asbestos mine at Barraba, NSW, which is operated by the Chrysotile Corporation of Australia Pty Ltd (Reveiver Appointed), a wholly owned subsidiary of Woodsreef Mines Ltd. The assistance is by means of an interest-bearing repayable loan to NSW. 
In its Interim Report on Short Term Assistance dated 20 August 1978, the Industries Assistance Commission recommended that short term assistance not be accorded the production of asbestos in Australia. 
The Commission's reasons for this recommendation are set out in the IAC Report No. 1 8 1 . Briefly the IAC concluded that it was not clear whether the mine would be able to operate with low levels of assistance in the future or that problems it was facing could be assessed as short term in nature. 
On 12 October 1978  it  was announced that the Government had accepted the IAC recommendation that short term assistance should not be accorded. 
The Government reviewed its decision not to provide assistance following provision by the company of further information relating to its market prospects, and the willingness of the NSW Government, and the Commercial Bank of Australia to contribute to the assistance arrangements. In the case of the Bank this assistance was by way of accrual of interest over the assistance period. 
The only rnining operation of Chrysotile Corporation and /or Woodsreef Mines is at Barraba which is situated in the electoral division of New England. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Woodsreef Mines Limited has 100 per cent ownership of Chrysotile Corporation of Australia Pty Ltd (Receiver Appointed) which operates an asbestos mine and mill at Barraba, New South Wales. 
Other assets have included 100 per cent ownership of Asbestos Mines Pty Limited, which until 24 April 1979 operated a small asbestos mine at Baryulgil, New South Wales. Exploration licences are held coveting 24,300 hectares in the Baryulgil area. Woodsreef Mines Ltd is also part owner of exploration licences in the Wellington area of New South Wales. 
(a) The Directors of Woodsreef Mines Ltd are H. H. Robinson (Chairman and Managing Director), M. Clay (Alt D. K. Barwick), J. E. Stedelbauer, G. R. Cowan, RearAdmiral A. G. McFarlane A.O. (Rtd), R. J. Merrill. 
Directors 's addresses are not published in the company's annual report. 
The principal shareholders are CBA Nominees Ltd and Woodsreef Minerals Ltd. 
Information on shareholders' addresses would be recorded in the company's share register at Peat, Marwick, Mitchell &amp; Co., ANZ Bank Building, 19 London Circuit, Canberra City 2601. 
The 1978 Annual Report of Woodsreef Mines Ltd records the bankers as The Commercial Bank of Australia Ltd and the Bank of New South Wales. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On a number of occasions during 1978 and 1979, and at various locations, I have met persons associated with the asbestos mine at Barraba, New South Wales, operated by 
Chrysotile Corporation Pty Ltd, a subsidiary of Woodsreef Mines Ltd, to discuss operations at the mine. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3)1 refer the honourable member to the joint OECD Nuclear Energy Agency/International Atomic Energy Agency report 'Uranium Resources, Production and Demand 'of December 1977. 
A further edition of this report is expected to be published in December 1979 and should be available shortly thereafter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) At the request of the Government, I had a meeting with representatives of the Commercial Bank of Australia Ltd in 1978, pertaining to the Woodsreef mine. These discussions were held in confidence and it is not appropriate to divulge the names and other details of those who participated in the discussions. 
Commonwealth Expenditure on Roads  (Question No.  5156) 
