
 -Mr Deputy Speaker, in rising to support the motion so ably moved by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  and seconded by the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  might I say at the outset that I wish to associate my thoughts with that motion, not just in word but in spirit. I warmly congratulate all other speakers, particularly those who are making maiden speeches in this debate. I congratulate you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on your election and I ask you to convey to the  Speaker  the congratulations of all people in Tasmania. I think it is fair to say that whilst his election to office- the highest office that the Parliament can offer to any of its members- has been received with great enthusiasm right across the country, nowhere has it been received with more unbounded joy than in the state of Tasmania to which he paid so much attention and has displayed such loyalty over such a long period of time. 
It is a great honour for me to be in this chamber after serving for 8 years in the Tasmanian Parliament. If perchance,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I refer to you on occasions as  Mr Deputy President  or to the  Speaker  as  Mr President,  you will realise that it is a slip of the tongue and that I do not believe I am across King's Hall in another place. I feel that at this point I must refer to the work carried out in the electorate of 
Denison, which I am now so proud to represent, by my precedessor  Mr John  Coates. He set a standard for dedication and service in the electorate of Denison which is unequalled and which will present itself as a very formidable task to be equalled by myself and my successors. I believe that the people of Denison were fortunate to be served by such a dedicated and conscientious member. As I said at the declaration of the poll, my only regret in being a member of this House is that my election was at his expense. 
I am to be followed in this debate by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  who is a formidable campaigner in any debate but that will not prevent me from making one or two observations on the conduct in this House this week of  Her  Majesty's Opposition. I believe that some comment ought to be made about the antics and the pantomime that we have seen from honourable members opposite. I do not believe that my precedessor, the former honourable member for Denison, would have been proud to be associated with what we have seen. The petty action of boycotting the GovernorGeneral on Tuesday afternoon- a calculated personal insult; a conspiracy, to use the word that honourable members opposite have been using against my colleagues and I and that I now use back at them, against a man who they know cannot publicly defend himself- was a performance which made me feel, as I walked from the chamber and saw members of the Opposition refusing to move from their seats, that they were like a bunch of petulant school girls with their noses out of joint because their midnight feast had been confiscated. 
But the matter did not finish there. We came back to this chamber and then the House was adjourned. There was then a little gathering over in the Senate rose garden. And what did we find? We found that the honourable members opposite who had boycotted the GovernorGeneral's  deputy  in the morning and the Governor-General in the afternoon could not resist the temptation to tippy-toe across the way to the lawns and join in the munching of lamingtons and cream puffs- and they did it with the best of them. Of course, they did not know that  His Excellency  was going to be there. The Press report had said that he would not be present. To their surprise, and I suggest to their shame, he was there and he saw them and we saw them stalking around the outskirts of the gathering. They took part in the teddy bears ' picnic but they were not prepared to participate in the solemn opening of the Parliament and were not prepared to listen to the Governor-General's 
Speech, thereby flouting Her Majesty's representative both personally and in his office and shaming this Parliament. If I might say so their antics were such that last Tuesday ought to become a national political day of remembrance and I suggest that we ought to call it lamingtons and sour grapes day because that is the sort of performance that Her Majesty's Opposition was prepared to put to Her Majesty's representative in this Parliament. 
Having made those comments I want to say very briefly- I do not claim to be a great constitutional lawyer- that 14 years in practice has persuaded me that the real lawyers in Australia are completely right when they say that the Governor-General's decision was correct. We have had enough of the claptrap and nonsense that he acted unconstitutionally. I believe that  Sir John  Kerr acted with courage and force to defend the Constitution and that he gave something more precious than anything else to the people of Australia. He gave the people of Australia the opportunity to speak- and how they spoke on 13 December last. Honourable members opposite apparently still have not got the message that they lost the election. The people of Australia vindicated the actions of the Governor-General. 
I suggest that the Opposition would do far better if it were to stop picking on a man who cannot defend himself. In that respect I cannot permit this debate to pass without making a comment which I shall make in brevity, that is, that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said outside of this chamber- on television- words about  His Excellency  the Governor-General that he could not have said in this chamber because he would have been in breach of standing order 74 in doing so. He said those words about a man whom he had appointed, he said those words knowing that they were defamatory and he said that about a man who could not defend himself. I say no more than this: I believe that it was a sad day in the history of this country when a man of the stature of the Leader of the Opposition said the words that he said on television the other night with reference to the Governor-General. 
I believe that the one gift above all else that the Government is going to give to the people of Australia is the return of our federal system. I come from the State which was, in the words of  Sir Edward  Braddon back in 1901, 'the most loyal and steadfast in supporting the cause of Federation'. I do not ask for the passage to be incorporated in Hansard, but honourable members will find it in Volume 1 of Hansard on page 301. Despite its size Tasmania in fact was, if I might say so, the most driving force in the birth of Federation. On 13 December the people of Tasmania did not just throw out neck and crop a socialistic government; they threw out neck and crop a centralist government. If there is one thing Tasmanians cannot stand it is being told what to do and where to go by people in Canberra. We believe that Tasmanian decisions should be made by Tasmanians. We believe that Western Australian decisions should be made by Western Australians. 
It is the greatest thing going to see a federalism policy; not something that was dreamed up in the dark and hidden away but something which was made available to the public of Australia to look at for months and months before the election. I refer to a pledge and commitment from this Government that we will make the federal system work. To all those doubting Thomases, those knockers and those people who say that it will not work I say. 'Let us give it a try'. It certainly cannot be any worse than the system of government we had in Australia from 1972 to 1 975. People in Tasmania feel so strongly that if the federal system were to break down I say quite clearly and categorically that we would never accept centralist government again. We would prefer to go it alone. Laugh if you may,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Honourable members will take note of these words. I know that Tasmania is fully behind the initiative and the drive to bring back to this country the most precious thing that we have. Why do I say that it is precious? I say that it is precious because federalism is the one thing which will defend Australia against the socialist republican takeover. I shall quote the words of a great constitutionalist from South Australia, not a lawyer but a doctor. He was a gold medallist in medicine from London University. I refer to  Sir John  Cockburn. The words he spoke back in 1891 could well have been spoken as a prediction of the sort of thing that would happen and did in fact happen in Australia, despite the fact that the critics believed that it could never happen, during the 3 years of Whitlam Government. He said: 
We know that the tendency is always to the centre, that the central authority constitutes a vortex which draws power to itself. Therefore all the buttresses and all the ties should be the other way, to enable the States to withstand the destruction of their powers by such absorption . . . Government at a central and distant point can never be government by the people, and may be just as crushing a tyranny under republican or commonwealth forms as under the most absolute monarchy. 
There is talk about regions, about State parliaments doing themselves the service of voting themselves out of existence, all this poppycock that wisdom resides only in Canberra, that anybody outside Canberra does not know what he is talking about. We have had Canberra dictation and the States being made prisoners under section 96 of the Constitution. Dollars have flowed into Tasmania but with a little note attached saying that the money must be spent on this, that or the other. Two science libraries were funded by the Commonwealth at great cost at 2 schools 14 miles from each other. There was only one science teacher for the 2 schools. I could give examples from around the whole of Tasmania and tell the House time and time again of thousands of dollars wasted by the most negligent and economically incompetent government that this country has ever seen and which the people of Australia swept from power with great decision and force on 1 3 December last year. 
We have had enough of it. We have had enough of Tasmanian taxes being taken to Canberra and being squandered by centralist, socialist administrations which do not know, do not care and do not understand. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  is trying to interject. I am sorry. I should not have drawn him. I shall come back to him later, with respect. Some people in New South Wales, because that State was established a few years before Tasmania, think that we do not count. But if there had not been a Tasmania there would never have been a Victoria. We have a few friends. I do not need to tell the  Speaker  this because he has been to Tasmania frequently and more often than some honourable members opposite. We would be pleased to see members of the Opposition in Tasmania, including the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who has been to Tasmania and who I know would speak highly of it. 
The most critical question facing Tasmania and I believe the question upon which the Labor Government fell upon the rocks of ruin in our State was its failure to honour a simple, basic election pledge given in 1972 and repeated in 1 974, namely, to equalise freight rates between Tasmania and the mainland States. This is a matter of extreme importance to Tasmania because Bass Strait is our national highway. I am not ashamed to say that many people in Tasmania who had previously voted Liberal voted Labor in 1 972 on the basis of the solemn pledge given by the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  that freight rates would be equalised. Regrettably that promise was abused, was broken and instead of freight equalisation we had a situation in which impost after impost was forced on the Tasmanian people. 
Let me give just 2 examples: It costs $130 to freight a tractor from Sydney to Melbourne by road and it costs $ 1 5 1.50 to send it by rail; but to send that tractor by sea from Melbourne to Tasmania costs $260. To send a pantechnicon of 68 cubic metres loaded with furniture by road from Sydney to Melbourne costs $1,500 to $1,800; but to send that pantechnicon from Melbourne to northern Tasmania costs $2,924. The Government which promised to equalise freight rates breached its promise almost monthly. The freight increases which were imposed in the 3 -year period when we were promised equalisation of freight rates amounted in the aggregate to more than 50 per cent and effectively cut Tasmania off from her sister States on the mainland. . Listen to what the Labor Government did: It came to power in 1972. On 1 July 1974 it put in a little nibble- a 214 per cent freight increase. 'Well', said Tasmanians, 'that is not too bad'. What happened on 12 September? There was a 25 per cent increase in freight rates. Then, on 1 January 1975, as a happy new year's day message from  Mr Whitlam,  there was another  2lA  per cent increase on northbound freight. He showed a little variation by increasing the southbound freight by 114 per cent. Then, on 1 July 1975 there was another little nibble- a 2Vi per cent increase in the northbound freight rate and a 114 per cent increase in the southbound freight rate. When we got these 2 little nibbles, we realised that it was a little like fishing; we knew that something big was coming.  Mr Whitlam  's 1975 election present- he did not know that it was going to be an election present then- was a 40 per cent increase in Tasmanian freight rates. So much for the promise which was made and on which the Labor Government crumbled. I say fairly- I say this with the absolute confidence that the words I am about to utter are true- that our Government will crumble in Tasmania unless the commitment given by the Government is honoured. 
That brings me to the point which gives me the most pleasure I believe I have ever had in my life. When I was a member of the Legislative Council in Tasmania I had the misfortune to criticise from a distance the then Minister for Transport,  Mr Peter  Nixon. We never met each other. We read about each other in the newspapers and what we read usually was not very complimentary. I have now met the man. I have seen him do more in 8 weeks than the other crowd did in 3 years. I have no doubt at all that the commitment given by the Government will be honoured and that the people of Tasmania will once more be placed on a basis of justice, parity and equality with their colleagues on the mainland. 

 Mr Speaker, my time has almost expired. I do not want to go into details. The ravages of the Whitlam Government in Tasmania have left a scar across our State from which it will take many years to recover. When the McMahon Government went out of office, unemployment in Tasmania was running at 3 per cent of the work force. What is the position now? The present unemployment rate is 6.8 per cent of the work force, with nearly 12 000 Tasmanians out of work. They are out of work because of economic mismanagement and bungling by a government which did not care, a government which did not come near us, except at election time, and which thought that it could come over to Tasmania and sell us a good story. The previous Government got away with that by the skin of its teeth in 1974. But, my word, we had our revenge in 1975. We have not seen much of Labor Party members since then. 

 Mr Speaker, that brings me to my final point. Being a member of a newly elected government, I honestly did not want to make a maiden speech in which I made an attack on the previous government. But I see in the pantomime and antics of honourable members opposite this week, on what we will call lamingtons and sour grapes day, something a little more serious. I see it, with respect, as representing arrogance. Honourable members opposite still have not accepted the verdict of the people. They still cannot believe that it has happened to them. The greatest arrogance I have seen for a long time is the arrogance of the people in the Labor Party who think that they will do what another party , did some years ago- I do not refer to that- namely, switch a senator into the House of Representatives and make him the leader. Of course, they think of doing this without daring to consider the wishes of the people of Franklin. We have already a member for Franklin who will be with us for a very long time. I want to say here and now that the people who talk blandly about switching  Senator Wriedt  into Franklin ought to remember 2 things: Firstly, that  Senator Wriedt  stood for Franklin for the State House once and the electors of Franklin said: 'Sorry  Mr Wriedt,  we don't want you'; and secondly that the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  won that seat by producing a swing of 15.2 per cent against the Australian Labor Party. That sort of thing does not happen very often in Australian politics. The honourable member for Franklin has worked hard for the people of Franklin. He is loyal to them and I have no doubt that they will be loyal to him. No matter what people like to write in the newspapers in Canberra, I have not the slightest doubt that the honourable member for Franklin,  Mr Goodluck,  is going to be with us for a very long time. I stand by him in saying that the Labor Party can thump and decide that it is going to switch senators into leaders- presumably  Senator Wriedt  is open for the permanent job of the Leader of the Opposition. I do no know, but it must be something good for him to give up a 6-year term for a 3-year term. There must be something in it for him. The short point I make is that Tasmania did not turn Liberal overnight for no reason. It turned Liberal because of work that was done over a period of months and years to which you,  Mr Speaker,  contributed so magnificently. 
We now have a commitment to live up to our promises to the people of Tasmania. We have to equalise the freights, get the people back to work and stop the situation whereby Tasmanians have to leave their State to get a job. We are losing our children, we are losing our friends. They cannot get a job in our State. I believe that the economic policies of the new Government are good and sound, that the wheels of private enterprise will start turning again and that Tasmania will at least reach the equality it deserves as an equal partner in the Federation. I conclude by quoting the words of  Sir Edward  Braddon on 23 May 1 90 1 . 1 hope his remarks apply in 1 976. He said: 
I should like to say a few words now with regard to the undesirable and improper disregard of Tasmania's claims to recognition when the Federal Government was formed. 
That has not applied here. We did get a Minister this time; we did not in 1 90 1. He continues: 
Tasmania, if I may be allowed to recount her share in the history of this movement, was from first to last steadfast and loyal to the cause. At imminent risk, as was pointed out at the time, to her finances, she gave in her adhesion to the union at the very outset without a selfish thought of any kind. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is he aware of reports of statements made in Tasmania on Sunday last by the Leader of the Opposition in which the honourable gentleman is reported as having said that Tasmanian parochialism was causing a waste of money? Is the Prime Minister also aware that yesterday the Premier of Tasmania firmly rejected this criticism, saying it was a personal view and not federal policy? Has the Prime Minister in his financial discussions with the Premier of Tasmania at the recent Premiers Conference - 
-Can the Minister for Transport advise the House of what progress is being made on the preparation of a freight equalisation formula for Bass Strait freight rates and when an announcement may be expected? 
-I rise to support the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill, although I support it with some reluctance because any increase in air navigation charges is perhaps more keenly felt in the State from which I come because we have the advantage or disadvantage of being the south island of the 2-island country of Australia. People travelling from the south island to the north island regrettably have only 2 available means of transport. They might either fly or they might travel by ship. Those 2 alternatives are the only ones available to us. To put it into proper context, honourable members will appreciate that those travelling from Tasmania to mainland States are considerably disadvantaged vis-a-vis their counterparts travelling from one State to another on the mainland. 
Recent figures have demonstrated that over 80 per cent of the Australian public travels by private motor vehicles both on business and for tourist activities. Regrettably inventors have not yet been able to come up with a private motor vehicle at this time capable of navigating Bass Strait. I hope the former Minister for Transport will not think it amiss of me for saying this, but people in my State felt they suffered very keenly as the result of the substantial increases in general aviation charges which were imposed by the previous Government. In 1973 there was an increase in general aviation charges of 100 per cent accompanied by an increase in air navigation charges of 15 per cent. In 1974 the increase in general charges was 50 per cent and again there was a further increase in air navigation charges. In Tasmania we particularly felt that the enormous impact this made on the charges which were to be passed on to the travelling public were extreme. Quite frankly a reaction built up in Tasmania against what appeared to be discriminatory treatment by the previous Government. Those matters are now behind us. But I feel it is important to point out that, had there not been an election last year, on the proposals of the previous Government we would have been facing much higher increases in general aviation charges and air navigation charges than those which are to be imposed by the present Government. 
For example, I think the former Minister for Transport would concede that, consonant with his statements, there would have been an increase of something of the order of 300 per cent. If he disputes these figures I have no doubt that he will say so as, I believe, he will speak following me. The previous Government had in fact proposed increases in air navigation charges ranging up to 300 per cent. That would have had a most murderous effect on the State of Tasmania and in particular on the right of Tasmanians to travel to the mainland States. A concept which has been applied in the Canadian federal system is that all persons from all Provinces in Canada should have the right of equal access to the national capital. I believe that any government which creates a situation whereby residents in one State are prevented from free and equal access to the Australian capital or indeed to their sister States, starts to break down the federal system and creates a situation where isolation literally puts people in a situation whereby they are unable to carry out on an equal footing their business and pleasure activities along with their counterparts in other States. 
In Tasmania at the present time there is a very strong feeling that there is a case for reduction of air fares for travel between Tasmania and the mainland. The present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has already very kindly received one deputation on this matter and has been frank enough to say to us that at this point of time he is yet to be persuaded that his Government would be in a position to give any assistance in bringing about a reduction of air fares between Tasmania and the mainland. I hope, and I believe, that in the next few weeks, if not weeks then certainly months- Tasmania will be in a position to put to the Minister detailed information which will show that we are not in fact existing on a basis of parity compared with our colleagues in the mainland States. A mathematical calculation will reveal that on a mile basis passengers travelling from Hobart to Melbourne and from Launceston to Melbourne are paying more than passengers travelling between Melbourne and Sydney. I think that this is a matter which the Minister might be prepared to look at, because the ordinary system of fairness that I believe should operate throughout the Commonwealth must surely take into account these areas of disparity. 
Whilst on the question of general air traffic between Tasmania and the mainland States I wish to raise 3 particular matters. I hope that I do not stray too far from the purport of the Bill and incur your displeasure,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in raising these matters now. We find that in Tasmania, perhaps more than in any other State, some of the workings of the 2-airline agreement have an almost ridiculous effect. The situation of 2 planes leaving from Hobart within 5 minutes of each other, then no planes for three or four hours, has puzzled and confounded Tasmanians for quite a long time. We also find it rather extraordinary that on occasions both airlines operate a system whereby 2 planes leave Tullamarine airport heading for Tasmania, both of them land at Launceston airport, at Launceston airport half the passengers in each plane get off and the 2 planes then proceed to Hobart airport. I imagine the cost of simply landing one of these planes and then taking off is not insignificant. It has always puzzled me why a situation could not be devised in respect of those 2 flights whereby one plane would go direct to Hobart- and whilst we in the south like Launceston, we think it is a completely pointless operation to be landed in Launceston, to wait around for 15 minutes and then to be flown on to Hobart- and the other plane would go simply to Launceston. These are matters which I feel ought to be looked at, because somewhere along the line the passengers are paying the cost. To me it is completely and absolutely ridiculous that, as I say, 2 planes should leave Melbourne airport, land at Launceston, off-load half their passengers at Launceston and then like a pair of ducks take off and fly in unison down to Hobart. 
The other matter which I believe ought to be looked at is the possibility of direct flights by either Trans-Australia Airlines or Ansett Airlines of Australia from Hobart to Sydney and, hopefully at some future time- not too distant I hope- from Hobart to Canberra. At the moment the only way one can go direct from Hobart to Sydney is by flying with East-West Airlines which operates what is frankly a weekend tourist service from Sydney to Hobart and return. We have no aversion to Melbourne, but again I draw attention to the fact that a stopover in Melbourne en route either to Sydney or Canberra is unnecessary and time wasting, and I believe that the time is fast approaching when we should be able to travel between the State capitals without as it were having to be off-loaded or decanted half way through the trip. 
The third matter relates to air navigation charges. The Minister for Transport has been kind enough to look at petitions that have come from Tasmania in respect of the difficulty of a small intra-State airline service, namely, Air Tasmania Pty Ltd, in maintaining its economic viability. It has been particularly adversely affected as a result of the collapse of the Tasman Bridge. People might say: 'Well, what on earth has that got to do with the viability of an intra  state  airline service? Honourable members will appreciate that until the Bailey bridge was opened last December the lack of a bridge had the effect of adding an extra hour to the trip. It made the intra-State service operating from Hobart to Queenstown, Wynyard and through to Launceston less attractive. Since the Bailey bridge has been opened the economic position of Air Tasmania has improved a little bit, and hopefully it will be able to keep afloat. The reason that this matter is related to air navigation charges and general navigation charges is, as the Minister is aware, that the company's liquidity has not been good. I believe that the Minister should have a free discretion and the Government should be clearly empowered in cases where a small operating company, particularly one operating an intra-State service to isolated areas which are very important to be retained, to allow for some payment as it were by instalment if that company found economic difficulties in continuing its operation. I am fully aware that the Minister for Transport is conscious of the fact that Air Tasmania is in difficulty. I believe that it is absolutely imperative that Air Tasmania be retained. Any assistance that the Minister can give and that the Government can give to ensure that its operation does continue, I believe, will be very gratefully accepted and received not only by the company but also by the people of Tasmania. 
It is regrettable that the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  is still ill and is not with us during this debate, because I feel sure that he would have desired to have made a contribution with respect to the particular problems of Air Tasmania insofar as they relate to the service from Hobart to Queenstown, which is in the honourable member's electorate, and also from Hobart to Devonport and Burnie. I note in the Press that the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  is also taking up the matter of Air Tasmania with the Minister for Transport. I draw attention to the fact that small airline companies frequently have trouble in meeting not only their general navigation charges but also their airport charges as and when they are required. It would be absolutely tragic if these companies were to go to the wall simply because the Government could not permit them to take a little more time and pay by way of instalments, thereby increasing their liquidity and enabling them to continue their operations. 
The Tasmanian tourist industry depends enormously on the airlines' services and the airline companies. We have found in the last 12 months or so that there has been a decline in the tourist industry. Again I seek your indulgence,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in hoping that I am not straying too far from the Bill, but this matter is related because every time there is an increase either in general aviation charges or airport charges, eventually in some shape or form it will flow through to the paying public. In this particular case, with the 1 5 per cent increase, it should not bring about any increase in fares payable by the travelling public, because the 15 per cent increase in respect of aircraft operating costs in totality is less than one-half of one per cent. I therefore feel confident- I think the Minister is confirming what I am about to say- that there can be no possible increase either by TAA or Ansett in relation to air fares flowing from these air navigation charges. 
The point I wish to make is that I believe that at some point in time the Government should have a very close look at the whole scheme of air navigation charges and the general navigation charges, as suggested by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer).  I have felt for some time that no government can legitimately expect a system of internal airlines in a country so diverse and so broad as Australia to pay for itself. It is a truism that people are paying more for the privilege of travelling interstate in this country than many people pay for the privilege of travelling internationally. I believe figures could be produced to demonstrate that international air fares and, by comparison, fares in the United States of America, are far more reasonable to the travelling public than are the fares we are paying in Australia. I drew attention earlier in my remarks to the disparity between the passenger mile rate from Hobart to Melbourne, Launceston to Melbourne and Melbourne to Sydney. Quite apart from whatever deputations the Minister will be receiving from Tasmania, I urge him to look at this matter and explain to me why it is more expensive for people to fly across Bass Strait and through Tasmanian air than it is to fly over the balmy countryside and in the beautiful fresh air of New South Wales and Victoria. I am certain that the Minister, coming from a country electorate in Victoria and being conscious of the fact that sometimes whether we like it or not air travel is the only convenient method of connection, not only for business but for pleasure, will appreciate the point I make that there should be no discrimination between air passengers from one State and from another. 
In my concluding remarks I take the opportunity to pay a tribute to the Minister for the manner in which he has approached this piece of legislation. I believe it would have been very easy for him to say that, because of the commitment of the previous Government and because of the public statements made by the former Minister for Transport, our Government will simply go ahead and introduce the increases which were being proposed. If the proposed increase of 300 per cent had been imposed it would have led to very substantial increases in passenger fares for the Australian travelling public. I have heard that it would have led to an increase of up to 40 per cent. If that is correct, the Minister for Transport has saved the travelling public of this country from an impost which would have been unjust to Australians on the mainland, and which would have been particularly unjust to those who live in the south island of Australia. I come back to my opening remarks: We in Tasmania have not the advantage of being able to drive motor cars across Bass Strait and none of us has learned to walk across water. Literally we are prisoners on the island of Tasmania unless we have fair and economically viable passenger fares and freight rates, and reasonable timetables and proper services. 
I believe that Tasmanians in particular, should thank the Minister for Transport for arguing- I have no doubt that he must have had to argue at some length- to keep the increase down to 1 5 per cent. I imagine, with respect, that the beady eyes of the Treasury would have been looking very closely over the Minister's shoulder. I feel there might well have been others in the Cabinet who might have taken the view that on the basis of priorities this matter did not warrant the special treatment which the Minister has been able to achieve for it. I congratulate him for restricting and restraining the increases. I hope that the policy of the Government may be developed in such a way that increases of the like we saw under the 3 years of the Whitlam Government will never again be inflicted on the travelling public of Australia. 
I urge the Minister to look closely at the situation in respect to Tasmania to see whether it would be feasible for some concession to be made available, not just to Tasmania but to other isolated areas in this.country as well so that people who have no alternative means would have their basic right, under the federal system, of equality of opportunity of transport, whether it be for business, pleasure or any other purposes. We are part of one great country, and equality of opportunity of transport is a fundamental right guaranteed to us under the federal system, one which I believe the Minister and this Government will uphold. For those reasons I congratulate the Minister. Whilst I do not like to support any Bill which leads to any increase at this point of time, I would be less than charitable if I did not say to the Minister that he has kept the increase as low as possible, and for that the people of the south island of Australia are particularly grateful. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Has the Government been conducting inquiries into alleged kick-backs of commission in relation to overseas loan dealings? Can the Attorney-General give the House any information as to the result of those inquiries? 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Transport, is supplementary to a question I asked in February about the implementation of the equalisation formula. Has the Minister now received the Nimmo Report on this matter? Is the Government giving consideration to that report? Is that consideration likely in any way to interfere with the timetable laid down for the introduction of legislation into this Parliament to give Tasmania a proper freight equalisation formula? 
-In rising to support the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill, I may shock some of my colleagues by quoting from the report on housing of the Priorities Review Staff. As I said to another member earlier tonight, that report featured in the last Federal election campaign because one of its recommendations, I believe, incurred the wrath of the people of Australia. Regrettably, many people perhaps have been inclined to discard this very important work on the basis of that one recommendation which trangresses every principle which I would accept. Nevertheless, I commend to the House the following principles, as set out in chapter 6 on page 56 of the report on housing of the Priorities Review Staff: 
Public housing policy has long been aimed at several worthy objectives; basically these are: redistribution to the poor via permanent habitation at concessional prices and rentals; rescue in emergencies for households or individuals at some point of crisis; the provision of choice of habitation, especially for the poor, by increasing low cost options and keeping the market diverse and competitive. 
I embrace those basic principles of public housing; and I hope that the Liberal Party and the National Country Party embrace them, because I believe that more than anything else our Government has a duty to ensure that every Australian who desires to be housed is housed and, equally importantly, that every Australian who wishes to buy his own home has the opportunity to buy that home. I must say that I feel that it is more than just a matter of philosophy, because I am certain that honourable members opposite would accept the point of view that I now put, namely, that it must be the basic and inalienable right of every Australian and his family not only to own a piece of his native land but also to have the security of knowing that the dwelling in which he lives is his for life and can be passed on after his life to those members of his family who may be in a position to occupy it. 
I do not want to be critical of the previous Government, because I feel that perhaps the time for criticism of the 3 years of the Whitlam regime has run out. It is a very negative approach for our Government simply to rely on criticising that which was done from 1972 to 1975. 1 commend to the House the view that we should put forward propositions which we believe are worth while. Frankly, some of those propositions, I believe, will be embraced and supported by honourable members opposite. I put the point, however, that in the 3 years of Labor administration there was a marked trend away from not only home building but also the right to home ownership, and that we were heading along lines which, had they been pursued, would have resulted in Australia becoming a nation of tenants; Australians would not have had the right to buy their own homes and would have been assured that leasehold and tenancy were just as good. In fact, I take the very strong point of view- I apply it particularly to those in the lower income brackets- that the right to the opportunity to own one 's own home is a right which no government should deny any person who lives in this country. I hope that the whole thrust and direction of our housing policy over the next 3 years will be to give Australians the right to buy their own homes. 
I do not go back to the bad old days when we were told that if we followed certain policies we all would turn out to be little capitalists. I do not take the view that it is wrong for people to own their own homes. I take the view that it is right for people to own their own homes. I emphasise this point, at the risk of treading on toes: I believe that in some instances governments of both political colours have made available money that has been utilised by those who are well off and in a program of housing have overlooked people who should have been helped and have not been helped. There certainly have been people who have thrived on the housing policies of governments of both political colours. Frankly, in my opinion, they should not have been assisted. At the same time, there have been thousands upon thousands of Australians who for some reason or other have missed out all along the line. 
In supporting the concept of home ownership I, as a federalist, put as strongly as I can the point of view that the need for decisions to be made on the spot in the States, where the effect of those decisions is being felt most, is absolutely imperative. I believe it must be realised that controls over housing become less efficient and more time wasting the further they are removed from the grass roots level. I believe it is fair to say that in no other field than housing does the effect of centralism create more hardship and more neglect; in no other field than housing can it be said that decisions made at a central point are more likely to be wrong than those made at the grass roots level. 
I take some comfort from the fact that these questions were considered, and considered at some length, in a draft housing policy for Australia which was set out in a report of a task force of the Australian Institute of Urban Studies and which was prepared as a document for discussion at the eighth annual conference held on 23 October 1975. In that draft report of the Australian Institute of Urban Studies I find a very interesting resume of the problems which are facing Australia today in respect of housing. In answer to the question 'What is wrong with housing?', the comments which are made in this paper are somewhat revealing. The paper states: 
Too few houses are being built. 
The supply of rental housing is falling. 
The cost of serviced land is going up too quickly in relation to increases in real incomes. 
The land-development process is inefficient. 
Housing interest rates for home purchasers are widely felt to be too burdensome in relation to past standards. 
It is too difficult for many people to accumulate the deposit for a dwelling. 
Rents are rising too quickly for tenants, and yet are insufficiently attractive to prospective landlords to encourage new investment. 
Investment in rental housing has virtually ceased. 
Poor people unable to afford housing in the private market cannot get public housing within a reasonable period, and in many cases cannot get public housing at all. 
There are excessive fluctuations in activity in the building industry with consequent effects on the supply and quality of management and labour in the dwelling-construction industry. 
Building, planning, and development regulations are in some cases insufficiently related to real needs. 
There is an inadequate provision of suitable housing for small minority-groups within the community who have special needs. 
Tasmania is the area about which I am best informed to speak, if I am well informed to speak at all. From the outset I want to say that unlike some people I do not play politics on a matter like housing. I have had an extremely happy relationship with Ministers for Housing in Tasmania and their departments, albeit they have been members of the opposite party in government in Tasmania since 1972. 1 have found nothing but co-operation and assistance from the Department of Housing in my home State. As late as today I confirmed that in a small State like Tasmania we have the incredible situation of having over 4000 people waiting for homes at present and the average waiting period to get a house is  2¥i  years. I do not believe that anybody in the chamber would accept that it is a fair and reasonable proposition for intending home owners or tenants to wait  Vh  years to get a government home. In the southern area of Tasmania there are 2178 families waiting for homes; in the northern area there are 837; in the northwestern area there are 751; and King Island, Flinders Island and other isolated communities take up the balance. For 4000 famines to be waiting for homes in a State with a population of 400 000 is nothing short of a scandal; it is far too important to be overlooked by honourable members on either this side of the House or the other side. 
Over the last 3 months since the election I have received over 97 applications for assistance from people wishing to get homes. I suppose that the other 2080 families who are waiting have not yet got around to contacting their new member or perhaps they have contacted somebody else. I believe it is worth reciting to this House some of the cases I have encountered. A family consisting of a husband and wife and 9 children, the husband being employed in a State government operation, namely, the Tasmanian railways, and having been transferred from Launceston to Hobart, found themselves having to wait week after week after week for a house. They were living in a caravan designed for honeymooners and tourists. This is a case involving a husband and wife and 9 children. 
-That is their home, as the honourable member for Griffith said. 
No. I am sure that the honourable member for Sydney is sympathetic. This man is an ordinary worker with the railways who was transferred from Launceston to Hobart. He would have lost his job had he not taken that transfer. He and his wife and 9 kiddies are living in a caravan. I came across a deserted wife living with her 3 children in a garage in one of the inner suburbs of Hobart. I came across another case of a supporting mother and 3 children living in a tent attached to a caravan. I encountered another case of a supporting deserted wife with 3 small children occupying a flat on the third floor of a Department of Housing building. She had to watch those kiddies 24 hours a day. The youngest one was found on the ledge of the balcony after she had walked from the sitting room for less than one minute. 
I am sure that these are not isolated cases. I am sure there are similar cases right across the country. It seems to me terribly wrong that for some reason politicians- I blame politicians and include myself as I am a former State politicianand academics and advisers do not seem to come up with the proper solution. Somehow, somewhere along the line, we are getting to the situation where the housing problem in this country will be too big for any government to cure, notwithstanding the fact that this financial year the Government is spending $364m on housing. 
I commend the Government and the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay),  who represents the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Senator Greenwood),  for the fact that there has been no cutback in housing. I hope that that has brought approval from both sides of the House. Despite the acute budgetary situation there has been no cutback in housing and in approving this Bill we are approving precisely the same amount proposed by the previous Government in the 1975-76 Budget. I must say that Tasmania has done quite well and will be receiving $22m, approximately 6 per cent of the Australian total. For that allocation I express quite amicably my gratitude to the previous Government. I commend the present Government for not having cut it back, and I do not say that lightly. I add that an application from the Tasmanian Government for an additional short term benefit of the very small amount of $3m is regarded as being a matter of some importance in Tasmania. That application is being processed at present but hopefully it will be approved and will be available to Tasmania. 
There is one particular matter I wish to mention on this occasion, something about which I feel very keenly. When decisions relating to housing are being made it is of the essence that they should be made in areas where priorities are most keenly observed and in areas where the priorities are best adjudged; and by that I refer to State governments and local government. It seems to me an extraordinary pity that a housing agreement was entered into in 1973 which will bind the Commonwealth and the States until 1978. By 1976 or 1977 it may become obvious to many of us that that agreement, although it might well have been the best available in 1973, is not going to be the best agreement to take us into the first half of the 1 980s. The proposition to which I specifically refer is the requirement that 30 per cent be the absolute maximum of funds available from the Commonwealth to the States which will be utilised for home ownership. 
I do not believe that such a condition is a legitimate restriction on the right of State governments and the people living in those States to determine whether a person should have the right to buy a home. I was interested to find in the report of the Australian Institute of Urban Studies, to which I referred earlier, and in the paper which was debated back in October 1975 the surprising view expressed by many people that it is the people in the poorest income bracket who have a very strong desire, a particularly strong desire to buy their own homes. To me it is wrong to fetter the States with a conditionoriginally it was 20 per cent and now it is 30 per cent- which says that beyond a certain mark the States shall not permit one cent to be spent on houses which will be available for purchase. Similarly I think it is completely wrong and untenable that a person who goes into a home in accordance with a tenancy agreement and then wishes to become the purchaser, having improved that home and having tried to build it up and make it attractive for his family, finds that as his income has increased from the time he first became a tenant he is ineligible to become a purchaser because of the means test. It is morally wrong to deny that man the right to say: 'I have been a tenant for 6 years and now I want to become a purchaser'. 
I am no expert in this field and concede that point quite readily. It is a field into which I enter with some trepidation, even to speak in this debate. The point I urge upon the House is this: We should do everything as a government to give people the right to buy their own homes. I believe it is wrong to say to Australians: 'You have the right to be citizens of this country, you have the right to vote, to drink, to drive motorcars and to do all these other things but the Government decrees that it is going to be difficult for you to buy your own homes. It is going to be difficult for you to get your own little piece of Australia upon which you can build your own little home which you can develop, which you an improve and which you can pass on to your children.' As I understand it, it is the essence of the philosophy of the present Government to do everything conceivable to give Australians the right to buy their own homes. I understand that my honourable friends opposite take the view that tenancy is just as good. With respect to them, I am afraid that I do not agree. 
I do not want to see Australia become a country of tenants and rent payers. I do not want to see Australians in the hands of landlords. I say that quite advisedly. I want to see Australians have the right to buy their own homes and the right to own their own little part of Australia. I believe that what I am saying tonight will have no effect until we come to debate appropriate legislation next year. It cannot affect the agreement which was entered into in August 1975. But 
I hope that it will affect the thinking and the deliberations which take place over the next few months. With the dynamism and drive of our new federalism policy, with the States being given the opportunity to do things as they should have been permitted to do them under a federal system for 75 years- they are getting their first chance in the 76th year of our federation- I believe that we will be able to give the housing policy of this country a tremendous drive. 
I use the words 'housing policy'. Have we really got a housing policy? No- perhaps not. But with respect, I say that is not a mis-statement because in a federation, the problems of house owners in New South Wales may be totally different from those of house owners in South Australia. The priorities in Victoria might be quite different from those in Tasmania and Western Australia. I commend the Government for continuing the allocation as it has done. I hope that in the new federalism policy, we will see a situation where the important decisions will be made at grassroots level and that those who are meant to be served by the legislation we are passing tonight will be served by decisions made in the State where those people live and by the people who know them best. I support the Bill. 
In view of recent Press reports which have appeared in Tasmania, will the Minister for Transport please make it quite clear that the entire Nimmo report is not now official Government policy. Secondly, will he indicate whether the early implementation of freight equalisation legislation is still a major priority of the Government? 

 -Mr Chairman, my consideration of this clause has, quite frankly, given me more anxiety than any consideration of any clause that I have ever had to deliberate upon since 14 May 1966 when I was first elected to a Parliament. I must say,  Sir, that  the decision that I have had to make in respect of this clause would, at this moment, be the most difficult decision of my political career to date. I have now resolved the matter, but only in the last few hours. I speak with some sorrow and some unabated anger on this occasion: Sorrow at the decision, but determined to accept it, and unabated anger at the cant and hypocrisy that we have seen from honourable members opposite who, once again, turn the welfare of the pensioners of Australia, which I regard as a most serious matter, into yet another debate which has been prostituted by their treating the pensioners of this country as a political football. 

 Sir, I do not appreciate the sort of speech which we have just heard from the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  on clause 7. 1 have had sleepless nights over clause 7 and his remarks do not help me, the Parliament or the pensioners. The honourable member can laugh as much as he likes, but I will tell him something here and now: If he wants to play conscience and politics with me on a question like pensioners, he has picked the wrong one. I do not believe it is a fair go for the pensioners to see the honourable member once again using them for political purposes.  Sir, I  have had- believe it or not on the other side of this chamber- a commitment to the pensioners for many years. Unfortunately eight of those years were spent in a State parliament when there was not much opportunity to do the sort of things that I wanted to see done. But let me indicate here and now that I shall endeavour to prove that the Opposition is not genuine in its attitude to clause 7. It has picked out clause 7 for cheap political capital. 
I am going to refer to things said in the second reading debate, not to re-open the debate, because I know I would be out of order, but to prove the hypocrisy that has come from the other side of the chamber and from the honourable member for Oxley in particular. I do not believe there is a single pensioner in Denison or Franklin- I include Franklin because of the attitude of the honourable member for Franklinwho does not recognise that pensioners are going to receive a better deal under this Government than they have ever received in the history of this country. I take the strongest exception to the hypocritical and arrogant pronouncement by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  when he said this - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -Order! The honourable member may not reflect against any individual member of the Opposition. I advise him to watch that point 
I accept that,  Sir. What  I am now saying applies to all of them. If they adopt the tactic of saying that the Liberals stand for reducing the living standard and the selfrespect which were derived from the living standards that pensioners had available in the past, if they say that we are trying to drag the pensioners down, what a disgraceful and rotten thing to say. 
That honourable member over there,  Sir, whom  I am not allowed to name, is taking it up. He is saying from his position that the Liberal Party stands to drag down the pensioners. 
That is a lie, and you know it. You can give it and I will take it, and I am going to give you a little of it back to your corner. The other comment in yesterday's debate that I take up is this statement: 
I challenge the members of the Government to explain why they are prepared to tolerate so much deprivation for so many people depending on social security benefits for so long. Was it really a matter of reverting to social economic determinism that belongs at least to a century or more in the past? 
Let me tell honourable members opposite that we are not a century behind. You are, and the pensioners lobby in this country is now to be found on this side of the House among the spirited and concerned back benchers of the Government and we are the people who are going to get a fair deal for the pensioners; not you. You had your chance for 3 years and you muffed it and you come into this place tonight and make cheap political capital out of funerals. Are there no depths below which you are not prepared to sink? Funerals! Funerals! You are trying to stir up the emotions and I am stirring yours back. You are trying to stir up emotions in relation to funerals and the grave. I have brought you in and you can come in as hard as you like and you are going to get it right back. 
Quite frankly,  Sir, I  have waited for this debate. I have itched by the minute to get an opportunity to just throw a little bit back at them. Last Monday, unlike the soap box orators on the other side, my colleague from Franklin and I went and spoke to the pensioners. We go to their meetings. Did you not know that? You got stuck into the honourable member for Parramatta. He has the closest contact with pensioners of any member in Sydney and you do not even know it. Why do you not go and talk to them? Why do not you try and understand them? Why do you not show a genuine interest? You treat them as electoral cannon fodder. You put them up at election times and when you can pick a little hole in a Bill, something which none of" us likes - 
-Oh, I am not interested in you. When you can find a Utile hole in a Bill, you belt it away. You try to make it so big and so enormous; but you are not going to con the pensioners this time. We are giving the pensioners automatic indexation. We are going to tackle inflation, not like the honourable member for Oxley. Under your inflationary policies the pensioners of Australia were robbed. You do not think they know it but they do, because week by week that went by their pensions bought less and less. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! Will the honourable member resume his seat for a moment. I am sorry to interrupt the flow of the honourable member's speech but I point out that it is proper that he should address the Chair. He should not direct his remarks directly across the chamber, no matter how much the provocation. I advise the House to come a little bit to order. All honourable members have the option to talk on this clause as far as I know. 
I am sorry, but the honourable member for Oxley distracted me a little bit. By Heaven,  Sir, I  can say here and now that there are many people who would welcome the opportunity to stand where I stand tonight and say through you,  Mr Chairman,  the things I am saying to him. Having said that, let me now get back to the gist of the matter. Frankly,  Sir, it  really upsets me that members of the Opposition, the few of them who are here, think this is all a bit of a joke, a carnival, at the expense of the pensioners. I am proud to claim practically every battler and plonko in Hobart as a friend, and I do not think it is a funny matter. I do not think it does honourable members opposite any credit at all. 
-I am very proud to be associated with the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in rising to speak to this matter of public importance. Let me say, with respect, that I am disappointed with the type of speech just made by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  I submit that it is cold comfort to the people of Poland and those descendants and relatives of the people of Poland who have chosen to live in Australia to hear the sort of speech which has just fallen from the lips of the honourable member for Wills. I am sufficient of an idealist to believe that where freedoms and basic human rights are threatened anywhere in the world it is the duty of those who support those basic freedoms and human rights to stand up in their defence. I have no qualms in saying that where those rights are threatened by totalitarian regimes, either of the right or of the left, in the northern hemisphere or in the southern hemisphere, I will do my bit. 
-The honourable member is in no position to comment on my activities in relation to Vietnam. He just does not know what he is talking about. The honourable member is a most extraordinary person. He has known me, I suppose, for about 8 weeks and he presumes to pre-judge what my attitude was on Vietnam. What a presumption! As long as he continues to act with such arrogance and is so presumptuous in manner he will remain on that side of the House for many years to come. I am proud to be associated with this matter of public importance. I only express regret in passing that it has not been taken up and supported by the honourable member for Wills and members of  Her  Majesty's Opposition. What is wrong with the Opposition joining with us in a united front on this matter? The conclusion must be drawn that honourable members opposite either do not believe in what we are saying or they do believe in what we are saying but are frightened publicly to identify themselves with us. 
What are we saying? We are expressing our extreme regret about actions which were taken in Poland on 10 February this year by the puppet Polish Parliament. I hope that 10 February 1976 will be remembered by all Australians who believe in freedom as a day of shame for international democracy, a day of the deprivation of the rights and liberties of the people of Poland, and a day of sadness for all who love freedom and all who believe that one day we will see a free Poland. I am one of those who believes that we will see it. The spirit of Poland emerges despite the crippling pressure that has been applied to those people. We have seen uprising of the workers- the very same people who are supposed to be represented by those people on the other side of the House, those who support the Labor Party, those who support the rights of the ordinary worker. We saw uprisings in 1956 and again in 1970. 1 would have thought that in 1976 members of the Australian Labor Party would be prepared to come out and say that this is one further assault on the rights and liberties of the workers in another country which we will not tolerate. 
In 1975 in Australia we saw something occur which I believe was unique in the world. It was the movement amongst people of an expression of opinion which persuaded a major political party to the belief that one of the first things which it had to do upon gaining office was to reverse one of the most outrageous foreign affairs decisions ever made by a Prime Minister of this country. That decision was the decision made unilaterally, without the support of the Parliament, without discussion in the Parliament, and without the consent of the people of Australia, that the Australian Government, as it then was, would recognise Soviet sovereignity over the Baltic States. I was one of many people in this country who believed that to be the most disgraceful decision ever made in the field of public foreign affairs. I am delighted to say that within 3 days of our Government coming to office steps were commenced to correct that position, and before 
Christmas that decision to grant  de jure  recognition to Soviet sovereignity over Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania was reversed. It is quite interesting to see that  from  that movement people right across the world are now saying: Should we accept as a fact of life a Russian domination of sovereign states and of individuals living in those sovereign states who have a basic human rightnot only right but also an entitlement- to the protection of international law? 
The great hypocrisy of the decision of 10 February is that last year at the Helsinki Conference Poland was one of the 34 countries which .signed a solemn treaty ratifying the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. That  so  encouraged people in Poland to believe in freedom that Professor Edward Lipinski and a number of Polish intellectuals came out into the open and wrote a letter to the  Speaker  of the Polish Parliament. They were supported, incidentally, by some 300 other persons, mainly students, trade unionists and workers. In view of the declaration by Poland that it was ratifying the Universal Declaration of Human Rights at the conference in Helsinki they thought to themselves: 'Here is a great chance. We have a conference of the Party coming up in December. We will put  to  it some simple little proposals about freedom of conscience and religious practice, freedom of the right to work, freedom to join trade unions, the freedom of trade unionists to strike, the freedom of trade unionists to publish periodicals and other work, freedom of learning, freedom to be free of religious persecution, freedom from being  Debarred  from public office because of religious beliefs'. All of these matters are set out in the letter which Professor Lipinski sent to the  Speaker  of the Parliament of the Polish Peoples Republic dated 5 December 1975. 1 seek leave to have that document incorporated in  Hansard.  It is only 2 pages in length but having it incorporated will certainly save some time in my endeavouring to read it and in endeavouring to appeciate my remarks. I seek the leave of the House to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
-Yes, I will certainly show it to the honourable member. 
-The honourable member is taking up my time. The honourable member for Mackellar will take it down to him. I am sure that the honourable member for Corio would have been sent a copy of it anyway, seeing that it was circulated by the Federation of Polish Organisations of Victoria- and Corio, I believe, is still in Victoria. Similarly at about that time the Polish United Workers -Congress, which in fact is the Communist Party,- at its congress, instead of agreeing to those things which were being requested, decided that it would take the alternative course of not only denying those freedoms but also of taking away 3 basic rights which hitherto had been the entitlement of the people of Poland. The first is to write into the Polish Constitution that the Communist Party in essence is the only Party which will be permitted in that country. That is the long and the short of it. It is set down in black and; white. 
What it wants to write into the Constitution amounts to a denial of the right of political association, of the formation of parties and of any real chance of an effective opposition in the Polish Parliament; secondly, the taking away of the rights of an independent and free Polish foreign policy by writing into the Constitution that,  ipso facto,  the foreign policy of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, will be, for all intents and purposes, the foreign policy of Poland; and, thirdly, by giving to an arm of the Executive, the State Council, an interpretive right- whatever the honourable member for Wills might say it is not the right of the Governor-General of Australia but in fact is the right of the High Court of Australia- to interpret the Constitution. In those 3 steps three basic rights were taken away. Yet another trio of nails was hammered into the coffin of freedom, in Poland. That produced a response from the. Government of the Polish Republic in exile in London on 1 5 January 1976. That protest, I believe, ought to be incorporated in the journals of this Parliament. Again, with the consent of the honourable member for Corio, who I think has seen a copy of this document, I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. m 
-Qf course. I am doing, with respect, only what I have seen the honourable member do in the short time that I have been here. If the honourable member would prefer it I will show him the .document after I have concluded my speech, and he can indicate perhaps when he speaks whether leave is granted. I hope that the House will unite in supporting the sentiments of the terms of the matter of public importance brought forward by the honourable member for Mackellar. I hope that we will show to the world that as a Parliament we take the utmost exception to what has been done in Poland. I hope that by our actions other Parliaments will be encouraged to express similar views and that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics will be told that what it has done has not met with the approval of the people of Australia and freedom loving people throughout the world. I support the terms of the matter which has been raised. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Before the honourable member for Corio takes his point of order and before I call the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  I indicate that I am under the impression at the moment that the honourable member for Denison did ask on 2 occasions to have documents incorporated in  Hansard.  Although there is nothing in the Standing Orders to this effect, it is the practice of the House that when an honourable member wants to incorporate something in  Hansard  he shows it to the person from whom he requests that permission on the opposite side of the table. I think that perhaps we can take it that the request of the honourable member to have these documents incorporated in  Hansard  has been granted on the understanding that the honourable member for Corio, as the person sitting at the table, will look at the material sought to be incorporated. 
I am sorry. I did not realise that. I did not intend any discourtesy to the honourable member for Corio. I shall show the honourable member the other document. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. He would be aware that today is E day and that several thousand teachers and parents from many parts of Australia have travelled to Canberra to put the case of education to this Parliament. Would the Minister agree that peaceful and orderly gatherings of this nature are a true exercise of the democratic process and in marked contrast to the rowdy and violent demonstrations seen in front of this Parliament last year? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  for the second time this session. In the rambling remarks of the honourable member for Port Adelaide he used words to this effect: 'Dealing with the funeral benefit, a couple of Tasmanians cried on their sleeves and, at the end, held up their hands against the measure'. Only 2 Tasmanian members of this chamber spoke on that measure. I was one, and the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  was the other. We did not cry on our sleeves and we held up our hands against that measure 10 weeks ago. I regard that as a misrepresentation and I feel that it should be corrected firmly. The honourable member for Port Adelaide has a habit of doing this and, with respect, getting away with it- except when he tackles Tasmanians. 
Question put- 
I think honourable members will concede that I am not an aggressive person and that I seldom attack members of  Her  Majesty's Opposition except under the most extreme provocation. I believe the last occasion on which I was provoked to attack  Her  Majesty's Opposition was 17 February which we will remember forever as lamingtons and sour grapes day. It is regrettable that on another day which was given a name by many people to whom it meant a lot, namely E Day, we have seen in this Parliament a deliberate and concerted attempt by members of the Labor Party opposite to disrupt and wreck E Day and, more seriously, to prevent the right of access of constituents who travelled hundreds and hundreds of miles to Canberra to talk with their members about the pressing problems of education. I believe the Labor Party showed its true colours in respect of education today. It was obvious from the very outset that members opposite were determined to wreck and destroy E Day and to prevent the people who came here from talking to supporters of the Government including myself who have a genuine commitment to education. 
Shortly after question time arrangements had been made by myself and three of my colleagues, the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom),  the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  and the honourable member for 
Wilmot  (Mr Burr),  to rejoin a Tasmanian delegation with which we had been discussing education matters since before 10 o'clock this morning. What did we see? In the morning it was divisions, divisions, divisions- anything to prevent our getting out of the chamber to get back to our deputations, anything to prevent us from getting back to hear  Senator Carrick  address the rally. Members of the Opposition called division after division for the purpose of disruption and took points of order because they cannot take it. 
-In rising to support this legislation, with some reservations, at the outset I congratulate the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  on his very fine contribution to the debate. I am particularly delighted that I will be followed in this debate by the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr).  Without in any way recriminating, it has been a refreshing change from what happened in this chamber last year, as I will show by referring to  Hansard,  when the Apple and Pear Levy Bill was debated in this chamber and when only one Tasmanian was present- the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman),  who is now the Minister for Repatriation. 
This Bill and the debate upon it is a nostalgic moment for me because in a 10-year parliamentary career my political activities have been very substantially and intrinsically intertwined with the fate of the apple and pear industry in Tasmania. I originally became a member of the Tasmanian Parliament back in 1966, representing the Huon electorate, which is the prime fruit growing electorate in Australia and, if I might say so, the prime fruit growing area in the world. It is a matter of sadness to me that in the decade which has passed since my election to that House in 1966 I have seen the fruit industry in Tasmania decline very drastically. I make no apology for saying that I accuse governments, both Federal and State and both Liberal and Labor, for criminal neglect of the Tasmanian fruit industry over the last 10 years. As an independent in the Tasmanian Legislative Council I fought with- I think that is a fair descriptionmen like the present Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  the present Minister for National Resources,  Mr Anthony, Dr Patterson, Mr Grassby  and so on. The list goes on at some length. 
One of the great failings I feel about my parliamentary career in the Tasmanian House is that I was unable to obtain the government support which I and the indsutry asked for incessantly from 1966 up until the time of my resignation in 1974. My original pledge to the fruit growers of the Huon was that I would endeavour to get them government support to give the industry stability and to give the growers hope. I came into the Parliament, frankly, knowing very little about fruit. I did not know the difference between a Democrat and a Geeveston Fanny. I spoke at a public meeting in Huonville a few weeks after my election and I was prepared to admit at that point in time that what I knew about the fruit industry could be written on the back of a postage stamp. But I was helped, and helped very considerably, by a number of men in the industry who were prepared to take the time to give me the information necessary to enable me to put a case. The sadness is that the case which was put on behalf of the fruit growers throughout Australia at that time fell on deaf ears. The fruit growing industry had been affluent in the 1950s and the early 1960s and I believe that governments thought that the fruit growers were doing pretty well. The tragedy of the situation is that governments failed to heed the warnings. 
We have seen the diabolical situation, and I can only describe it as diabolical, in Tasmania where the fruit production in 1966 of 8.364 million boxes, to use the current term, had dropped in 1975 to 4.962 million boxes- a decline of over 40 per cent- because of the criminal neglect of governments, State and Federal, of all political parties. The fruit growing industry in Tasmania, which once comprised 1100 growers as at the time of my election in May 1966, has now dwindled to below 500 growers. As 45 per cent of the orchards which were in full production in 1966 are no more in production, that they have been grubbed out, one will readily appreciate the most difficult period of time that the fruit growing industry has gone through. Party to that criminal neglect- this is the only comment 1 want to make that is adverse to the previous Government- was a lack of care and attention by the former Australian Labor Party members of the House of Representatives who were supposed to be representing Tasmania. In my opinion every Tasmanian, whether he represents a metropolitan or a rural electorate, has a duty to stand up for the fruit industry because, as the honourable member for Franklin has pointed out, the fruit industry plays a vital role in the economy of southern Tasmania, has operated over a period of more than 90 years and has employed a large number of Tasmanians. One estimate that was given to me in 1966 was that the fruit industry was worth over $2 5 m per annum to Tasmania and that it was employing directly and indirectly over 5000 people. So it is no surprise that in those halcyon days Tasmania was known as the apple isle. Regrettably that title is not a happy one for the State at this point in time. 
I took the trouble to look at  Hansard  and to read the debate last year on the Apple and Pear Levy Bill. On 1 1 September 1975, as recorded on page 1366 of  Hansard,  the honourable member for New England,  Mr Sinclair,  who is now the Minister for Primary Industry, pointed out to the House the most serious fact that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics had established that the average earnings of Tasmanian fruit growers in that year was $800. I emphasise that amount. During the course of his remarks an interjection was made by the honourable member for Murray,  Mr Lloyd.  The  Hansard  report states: 
-Before the suspension of the sitting we were discussing apples and pears, but in view of the crabs which I drew from the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  I could have been discussing fishing. My colleague, the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom),  who has shown a very keen interest in the fruit industry over many years, reminded me during the suspension of the sitting that perhaps of all the States Tasmania suffered most by the devaluation decision of 1967. Our State in recent years has been denied access to interstate markets. Because of the high proportion of Tasmanian fruit which has been exported to overseas markets, the devaluation decision had a devastating effect on the Tasmanian industry. 
From 1967 to 1974 a number of things occurred which should be referred to briefly. There was the Grant report in Tasmania. I say with respect that it is a great tragedy that the Grant report has been permitted to gather dust and that very little action has been taken on that most worthwhile inquiry and most worthwhile report. We saw the formation of the Apple and Pear Growers Federation of Tasmania. For the first time the fruit growers of Tasmania banded together in a group and for a short period they were effective, but as their numbers dwindled- I repeat that they went from over 1 100 in 1966 to fewer than 500 recently- so too did their influence diminish and the Federation went out of existence. 
I have referred to the abolition of the sales tax exemption brought in by the Whitlam Govern. ment. I am sorry the honourable member for Blaxland is not here because I repeat that the sales tax exemption had a particularly significant effect upon Tasmania. It was a decision which was regretted very much by myself and others who were concerned for the interests of the fruit industry. I feel it is a decision which ought to be reviewed even at this late stage. I join the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  in his request that this question of sales tax in respect of apple products ought to be reviewed. I made the comment early in my remarks, and I drew some fire, that there were no Tasmanian Labor members present in the House when this matter was debated in December 1973. I draw attention to the fact that there is not a single member of the Australian Labor Party here at this minute when we are discussing the apple and pear stabilisation scheme. So much for the interest of the honourable members opposite in the great fruit industry of Australia and so much for their interest in fruit growers all around this country, who at this moment are wondering just where they are going. 
The next date I refer to is 8 April 1974, when the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  commissioned the Industries Assistance Commission to report on the apple and pear industry. I regret that the honourable member for Blaxland is not present but I am sure he is a person of honourable degree, so I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a passage on page 16 of the Industries Assistance Commission report of 16 January 1976 on apples and pears. This is most embarrassing. I did seek his consent. 
The Prime Minister would be aware of serious allegations made by the Leader of the Opposition against a former Minister for Civil Aviation, the late  Senator the  Honourable  Sir Shane  Paltridge. Is the Prime Minister also aware that a former member for Denison, the late Athol Townley, on occasions represented the late Minister for Civil Aviation in this House? Is there any truth in any of the outrageous and scandalous allegations against the late  Sir Shane  Paltridge? What can be done to protect the reputations of deceased Ministers and prevent great emotional distress to their surviving families? 
Can the Prime Minister inform the House whether any decisions have been made by the Government on the transfer of the headquarters of the Antarctic Division to Hobart? 
-In rising to support the Appropriation Bills may I say first and foremost how delighted I was today to hear the unequivocal assurance from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that the Antarctic Division would be transferred to Hobart. There has never been any doubt that our Government would honour its commitment in respect of the Antarctic base. However, largely as a result of a deferral of the project due to the economic chaos which we inherited from the previous Government, there was a certain degree of Press speculation aided and abetted by certain people in the Australian Labor Party who tried to spread the story that the Antarctic base would not be coming to Hobart. I do not think anybody in Tasmania can be in any doubt after today's answer to a question asked in this House when the Prime Minister said clearly and unequivocably that that base will be transferred to Hobart. 
I congratulate the Government on this decision. The honourable member for Prospect says not now. Let me remind him that my predecessor for the electorate of Denison had 3 years in which to get the Whitlam Government to get that base to Hobart. The original decision was made in April 1973. The Government of the day fiddled around with it. It dithered and delayed. It did not even get the matter to the Public Works Committee. It went so slowly with this that it gave it second-grade treatment and then it had the gall to criticise us because we took 6 months to do it. The Prime Minister said back in February that the deferral was necessary because of the economic situation. The people of Hobart will live with that deferral but we will honour our word. We will carry out our commitment and the Antarctic base will be transferred to Hobart. 
Secondly, I would like to take this occasion publicly to congratulate the Government on the new federalism policy. I am amazed to read the extraordinary comments in the Press to the effect that the result of the New South Wales election was in some way affected by the federalism policy. An independent observer of standing in the community such as Professor Don Aitkin has made it quite clear and my own observations in that campaign make it quite clear that the attempts to describe the federalism policy as one of double taxation and the attempts to discredit it failed miserably. I think the truth must be known that the New South Wales election was fought basically on local issues together with one other matter raised in this House by the back bench supporters of the Government, namely the $40 funeral benefit for pensioners. I want to say publicly that I support  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, and  Mr Neilson,  the Premier of Tasmania, who have welcomed this federalism policy. I want to say publicly that I support the remarks of  Sir Charles  Court and of  Mr David  Tonkin and the remarks of many others from big and small States who have commended this policy because it is going to give back to the States a most precious right which was taken away in the years of centralism under the previous Governmenta right to determine their own future, a right to make decisions for Tasmanians in Tasmania and decisions for Queenslanders in 
Queensland. We were sick and tired at decisions for Tasmania being made in Canberra by people who did not know, who did not understand us and did not care about us. 
-We had a gutful of it. I want to commend the new federalism policy. I am proud to be associated with it. It is a winner. It is a particular winner for the smaller States and at long last we are going to see a situation in which Tasmania will no longer be medicant, a situation in which Tasmania will no longer have to come creeping and crawling to Canberra for favours from certain people up here who make decisions, people who as I say do not know us and do not understand our problems. 
Thirdly, I want to commend the Government on the speed with which it is proceeding to honour a sacred election commitment, namely to bring in a freight equalisation scheme for Tasmania. At this very moment in this building the final touches are being put to the legislation which was promised back in 1972 by  Mr Whitlam,  promised again in 1974, but never came forward. All we had was the Nimmo report which dragged on and on and in the meantime Tasmania has had to contend with freight increases of over 50 per. cent. Unlike the Whitlam Government we are going to honour our commitment on freight equalisation. I publicly commend the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  whom I have publicly attacked on many occasions in the past because of his apathy and lack of concern for Tasmania. He has changed. He has definitely changed. The legislation will come in and we will have freight equalisation for Tasmania operative as from, I believe, 1 July. 
The fourth matter I desire to raise relates to a speech by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  I am very sorry that the honourable member is not present because I did tell him last week that I would be raising this matter. 
-I hope that in his absence the honourable member for Port Adelaide, with his usual skill and ability, will spring to the defence of the silver haired orator, a man who is I think affectionately regarded by honourable members on both sides of the chamber. If ever the honourable member for Hindmarsh led with his left and left his chin completely unguarded it was a few nights ago when he spoke on the Appropriation legislation He spoke on a matter which I think is of concern to all Australians particularly in view of the dictatorial comments of 

 Mr R. J. Hawke who seems to think that he does not have to be elected Prime Minister, who seems to think that he can make statements that he can hold the Government to ransom and seems to think that he can stand over the Parliament. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh made a statement in his speech on the Appropriation legislation to which I take the most strong exception and which I will demonstrate is frankly not correct. The honourable member's speech of 5 May is recorded at page 1955 of  Hansard.  I will read what he said verbatim. He said:  1 knew that if we did not have an officially conducted ballot in the AWU we would not have a fair dinkum ballot: it would be a corrupt ballot. Therefore I was in favour of officially conducted ballots inside the Australian Workers Union. 
The honourable member went on to say a lot of things about the collegiate system and a lot of things about the National Civic Council. I am not concerned with that, but I am concerned to correct a statement which was not true. The honourable member, intentionally or otherwise, misled the House when he said that he was in favour of officially conducted ballots inside the Australian Workers Union. The honourable member has a long and colourful career both in the trade union movement and in this Parliament. I go back to 1948 and a report of a committee which was appointed to deal with representations made by representatives of Australian Labor Party groups in Victoria. A motion was moved by  Mr Monk  and seconded by  Mr Cameron  in respect of the adoption of a certain report which recommended against court controlled ballots. The honourable member for Hindmarsh made very well known at that 18th Commonwealth Triennia Conference that he was opposed to court controlled ballots in the trade union movement. He was consistent again in 1951 on the question of union ballots. I quote again from the minutes of the 10th session conducted on Sunday evening, 4 March 1951. 
Messrs Cameron and Boland moved: Having regard to the fact that Conference has discharged Agenda Items 96-99 inclusive, Conference now directs the Federal Parliamentary Labor Parry to oppose and vote against any legislation by an anti-Labor Government to amend the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act in respect to the conduct of union ballots. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh took it further. A short time later he was elected a member of this honourable chamber, a position which he still holds. On 29 June 195 1 the then Minister for Labour and National Service, the Honourable Harold Holt, brought in a Bill to give effect to court-controlled ballots for union elections. 

 Mr Holt, in his speech recorded in  Hansard  at page 728, said this: 
Secondly, the bill permits officially conducted ballots not only when an industrial organization requests them, as provided by the 1949 amendments enacted when the present Opposition party was on the treasury bench- 
I remind honourable members that it was the Chifley Government that put the first provisions in the statutes for court-controlled ballots for the trade union movement. I suggest that the spirit of the Chifley Government in seeing that there were fair and clean elections is still very much alive in 1976. I commend the present Government for the tenacity it has shown in bringing clean courtcontrolled ballots to the trade union movement of this country. I suggest that the overwhelming majority of Australians from the shop floor of the factories, the members of the trade union movement, support us in what we are doing. This is what  Mr Holt  said in explaining his Bill: ... as provided by the 1 949 amendments enacted when the present Opposition party was on the treasury bench, but also where a group of members petition the Industrial Registrar feeling that only by such a ballot can they be certain there will be no irregularities. 
What was the stand of the honourable member for Hindmarsh, this man who said in this chamber 2 weeks ago that he was in favour of officially conducted ballots inside the Australian Workers Union? The honourable member for Hindmarsh virtually went into orbit. Some of the things he said are worth repeating, because his language was classic and his opposition was violent. I shall just read a passage which appears at page 1040 of  Hansard  to indicate the spirit of the man in 1 95 1 -although he tells us in 1 976 that he supported it. Let me read what he said in 195 1. It could almost have been  Sir Robert  Menzies. He said: 
The trade unionists of this country must fight all forms of tyranny. If they permit the form of tyranny to which this bill will give rise to stalk the country, sapping the life-blood of the trade union movement and the strength of the Labour movement, it will not be long before they will find themselves in the position in which their forebears were placed in 1890. 1 believe that all sections of the movement will combine in an effort to destroy or make impotent this piece of infamous legislation. 
That piece of infamous legislation was to give the trade unionists of Australia the right to a clean ballot; yet the honourable member for Hindmarsh tells us he supported it. He went on in the same speech to describe it as the most deadly legislation in the annals of this Parliament. I will admit that I was in short pants in 1951, but how in 1976 can the honourable member for Hindmarsh expect to whack it over members of this Parliament by saying that he has always supported it? I quote again his words: 
Therefore I was in favour of officially conducted ballots inside the Australian Workers Union. 
At the time of his 1948 speech he was an officer of the AWU in South Australia; at the time of his 1951 speech he was an officer of the AWU in South Australia; and when the matter was debated in this Parliament he still had a strong, long-standing connection with the AWU. I want to say from the outset that I have no connection with, nor am I a member of, nor, as far as I am aware, have I ever had any dealings with the organisation called the NCC. I am not speaking now of the honourable member for Hindmarsh, who in my opinion sought to raise this matter a few days ago, but because it seemed to me that 
Questions of sectarianism were creeping into the debate on whether the collegiate system ought to be retained. I want to say as a person coming from a small State that I believe it would be devastating to the small States of Australia if the collegiate system of voting in trade unions was taken away. Whilst I do not claim any expertise in the field, I will support to the hilt the Minister for Labor and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  in his endeavour to ensure that those unions which wish to have access to the collegiate system are given that right. At least under the collegiate system the representatives from the smaller States have an opportunity of serving on federal executives with a possibility of becoming national  president,  national vice-president or national treasurer. But that possibility is taken away from them by the creation of a system under which New South Wales and Victoria have the weight of numbers. The only exception could be a person of outstanding ability. I concede that the honourable member for Hindmarsh in his own way is outstanding, as is the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  He is an exception to the rule. But nine times out of ten South Australians, Western Australians and Tasmanians can kiss goodbye any chance of getting a significant union position if the collegiate system is taken away. 
I make this plea as a federalist: The collegiate system is a system which is recognised not only in this country but also in the United States of America as being a fair system. We are watching two of the great political parties of the world at this moment proceeding to elect delegates who will nominate their respective candidates for the position of President of the United States of America. The fascinating thing is that after they have chosen their candidates there is a vote and everybody in America gets a vote. But that is not the end of the election. The votes that people cast go to electing members of a college and it is the college which formally elects the new President of the United States of America. 
I ask those who are opposed to the collegiate system: Why? What is the reason behind their opposition? I do not hesitate to say that there seem to be 2 groups determined to get rid of the collegiate system. First there are those who live in New South Wales and Victoria and who think that Australia begins in New South Wales and Victoria. The honourable member for Port Adelaide and I will be as one when I say we cannot have a bar of that argument. Secondly there are those who want to see certain right-wing unions in this country taken over by the communists. I will not be party to any debate in this chamber nor will I back my cart to change in any way the legislation if it will lead to either centralisation of power in the trade union movement or a communist takeover. 
As I said, I have a lot of affection for the honourable member for Hindmarsh, but my ears nearly fell off when I heard him say what he said in the chamber the other night, because for him to say that he supports and always was in favour of officially conducted union ballots in the Australian Workers Union is not correct. He knows it is not correct, unless his memory has reached the stage, which I do not believe it has, that he cannot remember back to 1948. The honourable member for Hindmarsh is a very capable and experienced parliamentarian and he should not make statements in this chamber which are demonstrably untrue. Quite frankly, if that is the basis of the argument of those who are out to destroy the collegiate system, I believe they will not get very far in their attempts. 
In supporting the Appropriation Bills may I in conclusion make one final remark in respect of Tasmania. One is entitled occasionally to be parochial. It has been said that Tasmanians have been stirring things up in Canberra, that Tasmanians have been causing trouble, that Tasmanians apparently have not been behaving as quiet little boys. I want to say 2 things: First, I do not believe that any Tasmanian member of this chamber came here to be a quiet little boy; secondly, and more importantly, I do not believe the Prime Minister or the Cabinet want us to be quiet little boys. I believe that is a point of some significance. When I read in the Press clap-trap about having knuckles rapped because one had the temerity to stand up and oppose the Party line in respect of funeral benefits, when I hear people saying that the Tasmanians have gone mad again, and when I hear the statement: 'If you keep carrying on like this you will be appointed as official food taster at the Lodge for the next 6 months', I just want to say that the Prime Minister of Australia has had at least 3 opportunities privately, and many publicly, to rap me over the knuckles. I want to say publicly that not only does he not rap over the knuckles people who have the courage or otherwise to disagree with his point of view, but I think he welcomes disagreement. I think that is very refreshing after 3 years of one-man government in this country when, with all due respect, the previous Prime Minister dominated the scene and, because of his strength and because of his power, was able to make decisions which perhaps were not in accordance with the overall wishes of his Party. Because he was surrounded by his yesmen the previous Prime Minister of Australia was almost in a situation where he was able to rule single-handed. The Prime Minister of the country today is not a man who wants yes-men. He wants a strong, virile back bench to keep the Cabinet, and the Government, on its toes. He has a good, strong, virile back bench, and I suggest he has a dashed good Cabinet. 
I welcome the initiative and the drive that the new Government is showing. How refreshing it is to see a government which is tackling the problems of inflation and unemployment. How refreshing it is to see a government which is honouring its commitments. These are things which we did not see in Australia from 1972 to 1975. Whilst we do not expect miracles overnight, I believe our Government is on the right track. I believe it has the support of the overwhelming majority of Australians and I believe this country will be a better country in 1978 when we next face the people, because we had the strength and courage to take the tough decisions and to do the job that the people sent us here to do. I support the Bill. 
-The clear and dangerous threat to Australian democracy, law and order posed by public statements inciting mass action outside the parliamentary process is a matter which we as patriotic Australians would ignore only at our national peril. I say that public statements inciting mass action come from . the enemy within this country. This year we are spending approximately $ 1,800m in the defence estimate for the purpose of protecting our country from the enemy without. I ask this Parliament to spend an hour or two now discussing the naked threat to our country from the enemy within. In recent years there have been calls from time to time from members of the extreme left wing of Australian politics that mass action should be resorted to because of their failure to gain admission to the parliamentary system. Regrettably comments have been made from time to time by insignificant back benchers, also on the left wing of Australian politics, urging revolution and urging people to take mass action when the parliamentary process did not come out as they expected. But the matter reached a high peak quite recently with reported statements attributed to a person of significance in this country. I refer to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  I used the words 'reported statements' because I will be dealing with what has been reported and what he has said, including statements to the effect that he had been misrepresented. 1 will be seeking to analyse the evidence. This House then will draw the conclusion I urge upon it, that is, that the making of statements along the lines of those reported and attributed to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition are matters which no Parliament could ever ignore if it believes in democracy. 
On 22 April 1976 the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition addressed a meeting of students at the University of Western Australia and afterwards consented to answer questions. I repeat that the  speaker  was a man who is one heartbeat away from the Prime Ministership of this country in the unlikely event that the Australian Labor Party is ever returned to power in the foreseeable future.  His  comments at that meeting were reported in the media. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has twice publicly commented on those reports and has claimed in this House that he has been misrepresented. I wish to analyse the evidence available- what has been reported, what has been denied and, significantly, what has not been denied. I do so without rancour against the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition whose personal courage and bravery in the Second World War I frankly admire, but the moment of truth has now arrived for him. He must either accept and justify the reported statements attributed to him or he must now publicly disown the remarks which attach to him the role of an inciter of mass action outside the parliamentary process. 
The remarks attributed to  Mr Uren  are at best naive and misguided and at worst deliberately and dangerously provocative. I believe they are remarks which could involve the urging of mass uprising, revolution in the streets, and the total destruction of parliamentary democracy and the rule of law in this country. I repeat that no patriotic Australian can remain silent when such comments are made publicly let alone by a person holding the high office of  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
The obvious starting point at which to analyse the evidence and to make a fair assessment of whether the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition did or did not say what is alleged against him is to look at the notes that his office issued at the time of his speech to the university students in Western Australia on 22 April 1976. A fair reading of that document confirms that there is no reference to mass action and no reference to some of the matters which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is reported as having said. But he did say 2 things which I think are significant and which must bring home to him that he must have known that what he was going to say was of national importance. He said this: 
I don't want to say very much but what I have to say concerns the Labor Party and the Labor Movement - 
And I emphasise these words-  throughout the whole of Australia- not just the Western Australian Branch of the Party. 
A little further on he said what could be regarded as the understatement of the year for 1976: 
I just want to make a few comments that are forwardlooking. 
Forward-looking indeed! They were backwardlooking, to the extent, if those statements were made by him, that they pose the greatest public attack by a senior parliamentarian in this country on the parliamentary system under which we have operated since 1901. I and others are not prepared to let him go unchallenged in making remarks which threaten the continuation of the parliamentary process and the rule of law in this country. 
A little later and in this chamber on 28 April, when the Press statements to which I will refer shortly had been brought to his attention and made the subject of some attack, he said this:  1 spoke at the Labor Club at the University of Western Australia. No accredited journalist was present. I spoke for one hour, with questions and answers and with only a 5- minute introductory comment. 
A little later on he said that an editorial in the  Australia  'was based on a garbled report'. Then he said: 
I said: 
The real power lies outside of Parliament. 
Then right at the end of personal explanation which sought to exculpate him he made the most damning admission of all, because he repeated in this House the thing which led to the reports in Western Australia, namely: 
I said that Parliament was an important weapon but it was only one weapon that could be used in the democratic process. 
In front of the nation I challenge the Deputy Leader of the Opposition to say what on earth he is talking about when he says that Parliament is only one weapon. What is the other weapon he is talking about? It is mass action and physical uprising. It is potential revolution. If it is not I ask the Deputy Leader of the Opposition to be specific and say what in fact it is. 
What did the Press say about this meeting which was not attended by an accredited journalist? I will refer to 3 newspapers and the first I turn to obviously is the  West-Australian.  The  West-Australian  quoted  Mr Uren  as having said this: 
The ALP would have to act outside the parliamentary process if it could not bring about worthwhile changes to the 'establishment', the  Deputy  Leader of the Federal Opposition,  Mr Uren,  said yesterday. 
Parliament was an important weapon in this regard. But it was only one of the weapons that could be used in the democratic process. 
Outside forces could also be employed. 
What outside forces was he talking about? Was he inciting people into the streets? Indeed, that is what he was doing because later on he talked about the sort of thing done in respect of Vietnam. Then he added these classic words to this meeting which he said was not attended by an accredited reporter 'What we should have done was to show our muscle and our might'. 
What sort of muscle and might was he talking about? Was he talking about galvanising the union forces in this country to challenge the authority of the Parliament? It does not matter whether there is a Liberal government or a Labor government in office, if any group in the community is going to challenge the authority of the Parliament democracy is on the way out and totalitarian dictatorship is on the way in. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition was reported also in the  Canberra Times.  I wonder how that newspaper got this report if there was no reporter at that meeting? It stated: 
The ALP would have to act outside the parliamentary process if it could not bring about meaningful changes to the Establishment, the  Deputy  Leader of the Federal opposition,  Mr Uren,  said today. 'If we can't get results we will have to start to use more mass action', he said. 
Were those words plucked out of the air or was it that a second newspaper got the story wrong? It quoted him verbatim as saying this: 
Parliament was an important weapon in this regard, but it was only one of the weapons that could be used in the democratic process. Outside forces could also be employed. 
The third newspaper was the  Australian  and it headed its report as follows: 
Uren hints at ' mass action '. 
Again we see these words: . . . Parliament was only one weapon . . . What we should have done was to show our muscle and might. 
The point I want to make is that in all the waffling of the personal explanation of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in this chamber a few days ago he never denied that he used the words 'mass action'. He has never denied the fact that he said that Parliament was only one weapon. He has never explained what the other weapon is. He has never denied the fact that he said that we ought to resort to muscle and might. 
Those statements are disgraceful. I say they are unpatriotic to the extent that they involve an attempt to break down the parliamentary system in this country and to replace it with street rabble revolution. The fact is that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition came critically under attack. I refer to what was reported in the  Australian  when the matter was referred to in an editorial. That newspaper said that he was talking about 'anti-democratic revolution' and was advocating the first step towards a totalitarian regime. The editorial went on to say: 
It cannot possibly represent Labor Party policy, and, if  Mr Uren  thinks it does, his party and his leader must rapidly rid him of the delusion. 
No other senior member of the ALP has been prepared publicly to support what the Deputy Leader of the Opposition was reported to have said. I will read further from the editorial to which the Deputy Leader of the Opposition referred but whose contents he never denied. In fact he wrote a long letter to the  Australian  which that newspaper published, together with a photograph of him. He never denied in that letter that he had used the words 'mass action'. He never denied it in that letter to the  Australian  on 4 May that he had talked about muscle and might. He never spoke at all in that letter about being misreported. I suggest that what he said let the cat out of the bag. In that letter to the  Australian  on 4 May he said: 
It is my strong conviction that people must be involved in the issues that control their lives; 
That is fair enough and I do not argue with that point, but then he went on to say: they cannot leave it only to the ballot box every three years. They must be on guard and meet the issues day by day. 
What was the Deputy Leader of the Opposition saying? Was he saying that between each 3- yearly democratic election we should gather in little groups or big groups, that we should go into the streets, that we should preach violence and revolution, and that we should white-ant - 
That is right, bring out the jackboot. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition wants young impressionable students to become part of a sinister new guard in Australia in 1976 to impose socialism by force when the people rejected it through the ballot box on 13 December last year. It is not just Liberals who were appalled at the reported remarks of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. I repeat that he has never denied the main remarks attributed to him and reported in at least 4 newspapers by apparently separate reporters. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition came under fire in Tasmaniaand rightly so- from a trade union Leader. An article in a Tasmanian newspaper reported the remarks of the Tasmanian Secretary of the Federated Ironworkers Association. The report states: 
A union leader and member of the State ALP executive has accused the  Deputy  Leader of the Federal Opposition,  Mr Uren,  of inciting riot. 
The State secretary of the Federated Ironworkers Association,  Mr Bill  Wood, said yesterday that  Mr Uren  should be 'hauled over the coals.'  Mr Uren  told students at the University of West Australia last week that trade unionists and progressive thinkers should have taken over the centre of the capital cities. 

 Mr Uren had said: 'What we should have done was to show our muscle and our might. ' 

 Mr Wood, a genuine trade unionist, said that he wanted to know whether  Mr Uren  had been given the authority to make the statements on behalf of the ALP. The report continued: 'In making them,  Mr Uren  incited the people of Australia to riot against the laws and freedom of Australia, ' he said. '1 hope all good ALP members bitterly oppose what  Mr Uren  said. 'He is hinting that university students and industrial workers take over capital city centres at the next election, but he did not have the guts to say it before the December election.' 
If the ALP continued not to recognise the fact that it had lost the election, continued to attack the Governor-General,  Sir John  Kerr, and Lady Kerr, and persisted with its slogan of 'Shame, Fraser, shame', it would lose more seats and votes. 'Until the ALP gets back on the rails and puts forward positive and sincere policies, it will not win an election,'  Mr Wood  said. 
How right he is,  Mr Speaker.  The words I quoted from  Mr Wood,  the Secretary of the Federated Ironworkers Association in Tasmania, are words that have been uttered right around the country by thousands and thousands of Labor supporters. I suggest that the day of reckoning has now come for the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition either to stand up and defend what he said or publicly to dissociate himself from it. If he does neither the judgment of Australia will be that the Australian Labor Party has as its  Deputy  Leader a man who would countenance mass action, physical violence, coming out in the streets and preaching revolution. Thank God the majority of members of the Australian Labor Party will reject such heresies, such incitements out of hand as the meanderings of a person who either did not know what he intended to say or said it without appreciating the serious consequences of his words.  Mr Speaker,  I give the honourable member the benefit of the doubt. 
-Perhaps I am being too charitable. I give him the benefit of the doubt; perhaps he sometimes says things that he does not really mean. But now he has reached the time when he has publicly to concede his position. If he does not publicly get away from the position which he put in Western Australia, I suggest that he will bring nothing but shame and disgrace upon himself and a party which could be, but probably not for many years, a driving force in Australian politics. 
I do not mind following a remarkable act but that last performance was one of the most extraordinary ever seen in this chamber. Perhaps it was due to the 3 years of training that the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  had overseas before he came back here. 
In this capacity he is competing with the honourable member for Melbourne who once again is behaving as if he is the clown prince of this Parliament. I rise to draw the attention of honourable members opposite - 
That is all right. I waited for the honourable member to make a better contribution than an inane interjection.  His  greatest interjection was last week when he complained that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  turned his back on him when answering a question. In view of his behaviour I hope that the Prime Minister turns his back on the honourable member for Melbourne on many occasions. 
The honourable member for Melbourne has again wasted the time of the House. He will be delighted to know the reaction of the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  when he hears what I was about to tell the House in some detail. Due to the honourable member's inanity he has once again wasted public money. We have been spared the Laurel and Hardy show tonight and I congratulate the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  and the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  for not making galahs of themselves again on this occasion. 
I have the honour to inform the Parliament that yesterday at 5 p.m. the largest petition ever from the State of Tasmania was presented. It was one of the largest ever presented from any State. That petition, containing 13 000 signatures, was handed to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  It was prepared in Tasmania and, regrettably, the organisers did not prepare it in a form acceptable for presentation to this House. However the honourable member for Melbourne will be delighted to know that it was presented yesterday by representatives of Tasmania from both sides of this House and from both sides of the Senate. I think  Senator Wriedt  might have something to say to the honourable member for Melbourne for behaving in the way that he has behaved tonight when I have been endeavouring to tell the House about this most important petition. The petition was presented at 5 p.m. yesterday. 
-I think the honourable member ought to be careful. He might be talking about a man who may be in a position to deal with him and put him back in his box.  Senator Wriedt,  the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck), Senator Shirley  Walters and I presented to the Minister for Transport a petition asking the Government to give consideration to the granting of some concession to those people who have to pay air fares to travel from Tasmania to the mainland. I would have liked to give the House more details of this petition and the benefits that would accrue to tourism, to the business community, to families, and- for the benefit of the honourable member for Melbourneto pensioners, for whom he does not care one whit. There are pensioners in Tasmania who cannot afford to get to the mainland and there are pensioners on the mainland who cannot afford to get to Tasmania. I cannot go into greater details because my time has been wasted by an idiotic performance. 
In conclusion, I have much pleasure in saying that the first person I will be ringing tomorrow will be the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate to explain to him why I could not give the House the information I wanted to provide because of the inanity of the honourable member for Melbourne. Now he is being assisted in his interjections by the honourable member for Chifley who is commonly known as rentamouth. This petition is a good petition. It would have had better support if people on the Opposition side of the chamber were interested in Tasmania. They proved for 3 years that they did not give a damn for Tasmania. That is why there is not a single Labor member in the House of Representatives from Tasmania, and there will not be for a long time. 
Now we are hearing half the Laurel and Hardy show. The petition is worthwhile and it will produce a result, despite the efforts of honourable members opposite. 
I say at the outset that what the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  said impressed me and I believe the matter he raised should be considered urgently. I am proud of the fact that over a number of years, in a little place like Hobart, I have been able to have a close connection with the trade union movement, not only as a member of Parliament but also as a practising lawyer advising individual trade union members. One union for which I have a great affection is the Australian Railways Union. Apparently that union has some affection for me because barely 10 weeks ago it invited me- a Liberal member of the Federal Parliament- to accompany a deputation to confront the Premier of Tasmania, a Labor Premier, and his Labor Minister for Transport. 
It sickens me to see a union which is held in high esteem in Tasmania covered with shame and disgrace because of the action of 20 union bosses who decreed, without reference to the rank and file, that 50 000 members of the Australian Railways Union were going on strike because one man determined that he would not carry out his duty because of a view he held in relation to the mining of uranium. I have no fixed view at this point on the mining of uranium. But I suggest that the mass violence, the power outside the Parliament, which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  urged on the students at the University of Western Australia, reared its head yesterday with an abuse of power by the trade union movement which, in my opinion, shows that we have an irresponsible left wing element in this country which must be curbed and put down firmly by this Government. I believe that this is the only Government with the courage to take on these union bosses who decide that, whatever the majority of Australians want or think, they will make determinations and decrees and take over the country. 
To give an idea of how little the people in Tasmania knew about this matter, the Australian Railways Union held a meeting yesterday morning in Hobart and the resolution it passed and which was made public by the Tasmanian  President, Mr Jones,  straight after the meeting was that it would not go on strike again in response to a national directive unless it was told the reasons for the strike and unless it had an opportunity of expressing an  opinion at rank and file  level. I suggest that yesterday's performance was an abuse of power by an irresponsible minority which is determined, as is the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, to destroy the parliamentary system which operates in this country. As a former trade unionist and an honorary life member of a trade union- that might surprise honourable members opposite- I want to say that the dinkydie - 
-This afternoon by pony express today's Hobart  Mercury  arrived. It contained a most extraordinary headline which I think has staggered every Tasmanian member whether Liberal or Labor. Under the headline 'Call Fraser 's Bluff: Neilson', followed by the sub-headline: 'Senate Bid on Cuts?', the following article appears: 
The States should 'call the  bluff'  on the Federal Government on financial cutbacks, the Premier,  Mr Neilson,  advocated yesterday. 
He said the Tasmanian Government would try to persuade a majority in the Senate to force the Federal Government to continue to support programs from which it was withdrawing. 
The Premier of Tasmania made a classic statement. The article went on to state: 

 Mr Neilson said the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  had perpetrated 'a fairly substantial confidence trick designed to give the impression that somehow or other services can be maintained by the Commonwealth withdrawing from activities and without the States imposing additional taxes.' 
A little later- this will be great news for the Australian Council of Trade Unions- the article stated: 

 Mr Neilson claimed that, as far as State Governments were concerned, tax indexation was a confidence trick. 
It gives me no pleasure to pick up a newspaper and see that the Premier of any State of Australia, let alone my own State, can publish such arrant nonsense. For the Premier of Tasmania to claim barely 5 weeks after the April Premiers Conference that  Mr Fraser  has played what he describes as a confidence trick on him, and that tax indexation is a confidence trick, is to give credence to the sort of nonsense which regrettably was floated in New South Wales recently by  Mr Wran.  The people in New South Wales are now starting to realise that  Mr Wran  is not going to be able to carry out his promises as in fact he said he would. 
-The other night I was called the fascist member from Tasmania. I am delighted that the only communist member of the chamber has been interjecting while I have been speaking tonight. 
-I have not said which one,  Mr Speaker. 
-He has identified himself, so I withdraw it. I withdraw it,  Sir, because  he has identified himself. 
-No, I withdraw it,  Mr Speaker.  May I say that I do not mind if people on the other side of the House call members on this side fascists because quite frankly that was the comment applied to me. I did not ask for it to be withdrawn because I do not mind what the honourable member says. Nobody pays any attention to him anyway. To come back to his colleague, the Premier of Tasmania, it is an absolutely incredible situation to find a Premier who was one of 6 Premiers present at the Premiers Conference in April and who unanimously agreed to stage one of the federalism policy making the claim that he has now been the victim of a confidence trick. I am sorry that I have lost one of the audience but frankly I am not sure that he is a loss. 
-Oh, he is waiting for me outside. I heard that he waited for someone in Kings Hall a few months ago. I heard it was rather like the contest between Mohammad Ali and the nice  Mr Richard  Dunn the other day. I do not know whether there is a ring out there, but 
I will be very happy to see the gentleman in due course. To come back to more serious matters, I just want to say publicly that the Premier of Tasmania has made a complete and utter fool of himself by claiming that he was a victim of a confidence trick. Either he was not in full possession of his faculties at the Premiers Conference when he,  Mr Dunstan  and the rest agreed to the proposals put at that conference or else he has done the greatest somersault of all time. As a Tas.manian may I say that Tasmania will not go forward until we get rid of  Mr Neilson  and we make  Mr Bingham  the next Premier of that State. 
-The fund which the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  had in mind was the Montague Medical Union on the west coast of Tasmania, which is in the electorate of the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom).  There is a similar fund in the Denison electorate, which has members from that electorate and from the electorate of Franklin. I refer to the Electrolytic Zinc Company Community Council. I support what the honourable member for Prospect said and what the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  said. As I understand the amendment and the effect of it, there will not be any hasty decision taken at ministerial level which would in any way jeopardise the continuation of these funds. As the honourable member for Prospect said, both funds are connected with the mining industry. They are small funds. 
As the Minister, I think, is well aware from  Mr Judd  of the Electrolytic Zinc Company Community Council, who saw the Minister last week, members of those funds have a particular pride in being part of those funds, and they have no desire to be forced into a larger fund. On my reading of the amendment, what the Minister proposes is that there certainly will not be any precipitate action taken against the smaller fund, providing it is a sound operation. Both of these funds have operated very successfully for many years. It is my belief, from what the Minister has said, that the continuation of these small funds will not be endangered. For my part, I think that small funds such as these play a very important role. I do not agree with the proposition that the bigger a fund, the better is the service provided. I will do everything in my power to ensure the continuation of small funds. I believe that the Minister's statement should clearly indicate that they are not at risk. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
-In supporting the amendment I just say that it is indeed a pity that honourable members who would have liked to have spoken in the second reading debate on this BUI were not afforded the opportunity. Regrettably, therefore, instead of a short speech covering the whole of the BUI there will probably be a number of brief speeches covering individual clauses. That is a matter which I should take up in another place and I will do so. I query 2 matters of drafting. I draw attention to the fact that the words 'prepaid post' are used in relation to sending out the ballot paper, and in relation to sending back the ballot paper the words are 'facilities are to be provided for the return of the completed ballot paper by post'. If those two sets of words mean the same, I ask the Minister to indicate why the difference occurs. Secondly, I ask for some general information in relation to the cost of the proposed secret postal ballots. I support, and have supported consistently, the Government's policy in relation to court controlled ballots but I accept as a  via media,  as a reasonable compromise for a 2-year period, that we should defer the objective of court controlled ballots in all cases and that we should give this very workable compromise a trial period. I draw attention to this fact because it is impossible to discuss this amendment without having some consideration to clause 1 3 of the Bill. The power under clause 13(3) to exempt will undoubtedly apply to such unions as the Waterside Workers Federation. It would be totally ridiculous to expect that union to undergo a secret postal ballot when it is able, by the present process, without fear and intimidation to conduct elections at which it gets a polling rate in excess of 95 per cent. 
It seems to me that the cost of the secret postal ballots will eventually become prohibitive on the trade unions and that, in essence, we will reach the situation where the unions themselves will ask for the Commonwealth to take over the cost by providing a court controlled ballot system in practically every case. 
-Yes. The honourable member for Gellibrand says it is already happening. I hope he Will accept as a fact of life that it is desirable, if possible, that unions be permitted to make a decision in respect to their form of balloting rather than be coerced. I compliment the Minister- I adopt what the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  said about the Minister's work, and in fact I respectfully suggest that he is considerably over-worked- that instead of taking a stock whip to the unions he has said that we will have a trial period of 2 years. This is to the disappointment of some of the more extreme supporters of the Government Parties. I shudder to think what the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  might say if he rises to his feet but I know he will say it well. I am not so far to the right of Genghis Khan that I regard this as a bad move. On the contrary, I think it is a good move because it shows a spirit of compromise. From this compromise and others I believe may well emerge a social compact, if I may use that phrase which is not viewed very favourably in this country, of co-operation at a tripartite level between government, employers and unions. If that element of compromise produces that result I believe we have done a good day's work. 
The cost of postage is one of the most contentious issues in the community at the moment. I believe that the cost of secret ballot by post in some of the larger unions would be probably $150,000 to $200,000 per election. I think the point should be made, and made with force, at this time, so that nobody can come along later and say: 'You did not tell us this was likely to happen'. I believe that the cost of secret postal ballots will become prohibitive for unions and that eventually, rather than by coercion, by cooperation we will have reached a position in which the unions will have asked the Court to take control of their elections. 
Another comment I make in respect of the amendment- I hope I am not straying too far from it- is this: On the face of it, the provisions of this amendment, read in conjunction with clause 13, have the legal effect, unless some other legislation is introduced, of abolishing the collegiate system of voting. I say quite frankly and openly that whilst this matter has caused me considerable trouble, I believe that unions which possess at present the collegiate system of voting should be given the right and the protection of this Government to continue their system of collegiate voting. I put as a natural extension of the federalist philosophy which I adopt the argument that, in my opinion at any rate, if the collegiate system is taken away the smaller States can say goodbye to any chance of having an effective role to play in the election of federal office bearers of their unions. I contend, with respect, that where the collegiate system has been utilised by many unions in this countrywhether honourable members opposite agree with it or not- it would be wrong for this Government to legislate in any way, shape or form, to take it away. I know the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is far more experienced in trade union matters than 1 am. I know the dedication with which he pursued a course which would lead eventually to the abolition of the collegiate system of voting. I merely remind the Committee that the legislation introduced by the honourable member will become effective and the collegiate system of voting will go out unless the Government brings in, in the meantime, some form of legislation which will permit a continuation of the collegiate system. We should not be left under any misapprehensions that unless legislation is introduced in the Budget Session, with the passing of this Bill we will in essence be ensuring the demise of the collegiate system of voting. 

 Mr Chairman, I hope you will accept that these remarks are made in conjunction with the matter of secret postal ballots because they relate very keenly to that matter. I take heart from the fact that the Minister dealt with this matter in his second reading speech. I would have dealt with the matter if the second reading debate continued. The Minister said: 
The Government accepts in principle a form of collegiate voting, but the system adopted must be consistent with its policy of fullest participation by members. As I have indicated, the issue is a very complex one, and the Government believes that further detailed consideration is necessary, so that it can properly examine the large numbers of representations which it has received. 
I point out with respect that that is all very well, but if the Government genuinely wishes to preserve the right of the collegiate system of voting for many hundreds of thousands of trade unionists in this country we must introduce the legislation into this Parliament in the Budget Session. Unless we do so, the effect of the legislation introduced by the honourable member for Hindmarsh will be that as of 1 October this year the collegiate system will be illegal in this country. The honourable member believes that that is in the interests of the industrial structure of Australia. With the greatest of respect, I take a contrary view. I am sure he will not object to my saying that unless we bring in legislation- unless everybody in this chamber is quite clear that legislation must be introduced to keep alive the collegiate system of voting- it will die. I believe Australia would be poorer in that event. 
I support the amendment. I congratulate the Minister on the way in which he is conducting his portfolio. I do not believe anybody in Australia would like to be in his shoes at present. I suggest that if we can debate in a calm and rational manner these issues upon which we are divided in conscience, but upon which I believe from a spirit of co-operation we could achieve the best result, the Minister will be remembered by those who serve in the industrial field with the same affection and admiration as some of his predecessors, including the late Harold Holt and the honourable member for Hindmarsh. 
I wish to raise 2 matters before this clause is disposed of. Firstly, I made a mistake when I said that the collegiate system would expire on 1 October. That is not correct. The date is mid-November, as I understand it. Secondly, while I am flattered by the glowing tributes paid to me by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  I never at any stage suggested that any unionist would have to pay the cost of sending back his ballot paper. I invited the Minister to explain why the word 'prepaid' is used in relation to sending the ballot paper out but, instead of using exactly the same word in respect of sending it back, the draftsman has chosen to use different words, namely, that 'facilities are to be provided for the return of the completed ballot paper by post by the voter without expense to im'. I am sure the honourable member did not want to convey that I was suggesting that the unionists of Australia, under this proposed amendment, would have to pay to send their ballot papers back. I have never suggested that. I just asked why, if one word or set of words was used in relation to one process, a different set of words was used in relation to another. 
I take the view, with respect to the honourable member for Hindmarsh, that it is not irrelevant in this debate on this clause, and in particular on this amendment, to express a view in relation to the continuation or otherwise of the collegiate system. I pointed out- the honourable member for Hindmarsh has not contradicted me- that if this Bill goes through and no further legislation on this subject is introduced into this Parliament, as of the middle of November this year the collegiate system of voting for the election of full time union office bearers in Australia will expire. That is the very reason why this may be the only opportunity for those of us who are concerned about the continuation of the collegiate system to speak on the matter. I certainly hope that it is not. I shall certainly have something to say about it if it turns out at a later date that this was our last chance because the Minister has clearly indicated that discussions are continuing and that representations from all concerned parties are being received. I think it is appropriate to quote again verbatim what the Minister said because these words, I think, are vital. He said: 
The Government accepts in principle a form of collegiate voting, but the system adopted must be consistent with its policy of fullest participation by members. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh had the, with respect, audacity to say that it was Australian Labor Party policy to impose certain conditions in respect to the collegiate system of voting which the Labor Party in fact quite willingly lives with itself. The honourable member for Hindmarsh was elected a Minister of the Crown by the collegiate system of voting. Regrettably he was removed from that position not by an exercise of the collegiate system of voting. In my opinion, the collegiate system of voting is not negatory of participatory democracy. The two largest political parties in the world at this very moment are preparing for a collegiate system of voting at the Democratic Convention and at the Republican Convention. Even after the people of America cast their votes, the formal election of the  President  of the United States, the highest elected position in the world, will be decided by a college. 
I cannot believe that the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  are genuine in their opposition to this clause, which is consequential on clauses 4 and 5 which have already been passed by the Committee. The honourable member for Gellibrand foreshadowed in his remarks on clauses 4 and 5 that he was not happy about clause 7. The honourable member for Hindmarsh made a completely unwarranted and, I suggest, totally unjustified attack on the legal profession. With his long standing experience as an advocate the honourable member for Gellibrand should recall that when the honourable member for Hindmarsh was himself a party in an action before the Commission- it is reported in 1 Federal Law Reports at page 413, the case being  Cameron  v.  Davis and Others- he  chose to exercise his right to be represented by counsel. Now we are having the argument put forward that for some odd reason it is improper for the Minister to have the benefit of the advice of counsel and to have counsel appearing on behalf of the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
-That is the proposition which the Opposition is advancing. I cannot believe that the honourable member for Gellibrand is serious. I draw to his attention the provisions which make it quite clear that the Commonwealth does not have to be represented by counsel. It can be represented by a solicitor or by a member of the Australian Public Service. Last but not least- I say this with some feeling- I think it is totally wrong for the honourable member for Gellibrand to say in the national Parliament that by bringing in this amendment we are in some way giving the Commonwealthor the Minister, to be precise- some advantage over the other parties before the Commission. To me that represents an attack on the Commission and a suggestion that the Commission would listen to the Minister's submissions with more force and favour because he happened to be represented by counsel. 
I do not believe that the honourable member for Gellibrand, who has appeared before the Commission, could seriously contend that the Commission would give greater weight to a submission from one party because he is represented by a barrister than to a submission from another party who is represented by an advocate. I draw to the honourable member's attention the fact that consistently Ministers in the previous Administration chose to be represented before the Commission by counsel, and in particular the honourable member for Hindmarsh who not only chose to be represented by counsel but who took an active part, as he told us late this afternoon, in what counsel said. . 
I support the change because it is a realistic change to give effect to what is the practical situation. For the honourable member to suggest that at some future point of time we will have a Labor Minister who may choose to appear on his own behalf and put submissions to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission does him less than justice because he has appeared before that Commission on many occasions. The reality of the situation is that this is a consequential amendment. We have dealt with the essential issues in clauses 4 and S. For the Parliament having given the Minister the power to intervene, which he is now given in clauses 4 and 5, to turn around and say 'I am sorry, in this instance,  Mr Minister,  you are on your own; we will not let you have a barrister' is the most arrant nonsense I have ever heard from the honourable member for Gellibrand for whom I have a high regard. On this occasion I suggest that he is playing politics in a way which will not win him any votes. Quite frankly, I think that the honourable member for Gellibrand knows exactly what I am talking about. We are legalising a  de facto  situation which has operated since the honourable member for Hindmarsh was Minister for Labor. Quite frankly, when he had to go before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission he did not go in person. He took very experienced counsel with him in those proceedings. If it was good enough - 
As a former member of the Bar, I think that he took experienced counsel with him. The reality of the situation is that the Minister is to be commended for putting an end to the nonsense of whether governments should be represented by counsel. He is putting it in black and white that they are entitled to be represented. If the situation is that the Minister feels it is better for the case to be handled by a member of the Australian Public Service he is entitled to that option. The honourable member for Gellibrand is not  bona fide  in his objections to this clause because he realises that it is simply giving legitimacy to what has been the established practice for many years. 
-Mr Lucock, the challenge thrown down should not be ignored. I challenge the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  to say when leave was last refused by the Full Bench. 
Question put: 
That the clause be agreed to. 
-I do not wish to delay the passage of these amendments. However, I wish to comment on one of them, if only for the reason that it is the first amendment to legislation which I have been able to propose to a Minister and which has been accepted. I particularly thank the Minister for accepting my proposal. The amendment will now become section 100 (5A) of the principal Act. Clause 4 of the Bill provides that a licensee shall not broadcast or televise an advertisement relating to cigarettes or cigarette tobacco. The amendment is very small, but I just mention it in passing because I am grateful to the Minister- I say it publicly- for accepting the proposal as he knew quite frankly that I am bitterly opposed to the legislation. Nevertheless he accepted this amendment. If the Bill had been passed in the form in which it was drafted it could have had the effect of prohibiting advertisements which were not directly related to tobacco and smoking. It could have also have had the effect of banning anti-smoking advertisements. It now puts beyond any shadow of doubt that the advertisement must be for the smoking of cigarettes or tobacco- I emphasise these words- before it comes within the ambit of the prohibition. If it had been left simply on the basis of relating to cigarettes or cigarette tobacco, I believe that injustice and hardship would have been occasioned on both sides of the cancer dispute. 
I thank the Minister for the way in which he received the representation. I think the Bill is fairer now to all concerned than it was in its original form because it is clear. If it had pot been clarified, there would have been litigation upon litigation, and those who support the Bill would have found that it had to withstand a number of court cases to test its validity in respect to this section. Now it is clear and I believe it will be much fairer legislation and, for that reason, better legislation when it goes through the Parliament. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, even members of Parliament are permitted to have their pet hate or  bete noire  and if there is one thing that really annoys me it is the person who perpetually whinges and moans and takes the gloomiest approach possible to any problem with which he is confronted. We had a classic example last week with the comparison of the attitudes of 2 State Premiers to the most important economic document brought down in this Parliament for many years. I refer to the Lynch Budget. On the one hand we had  The Australian  of Thursday 19 August carrying a banner headline which, in my humble opinion, represents a statesmanlike attitude by a Premier of a State, albeit a Labor Premier, the Premier of N.S.W. Under the banner headline ' "I'll give it a go" says Wran', the newspaper article stated:  'The Labor Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Wran,  last night urged people to support the Lynch Budget 'for the good of Australia. ' 'I'm prepared to give the Budget a go,' he said after a meeting of his Cabinet. ' I hope everyone will join together to get this country back on its feet. ' 
That is an attitude for which I commend  Mr Wran.  I compare it with the gloomy, miserable, negative and thoroughly destructive attitude of the Premier of Tasmania because on the same day under the headline: 'Neilson gloomy at Canberra omelette', we had the Premier of Tasmania saying that the Budget had failed miserably to deal with unemployment. He said that it was obviously a device to throw on the States the responsibility for financing a number of programs which had previously been federal responsibility. The headline was 'Neilson gloomy at Canberra omelette'. He called the Budget an omelette and was gloomy about it. We have to make up our minds in this country whether we want to see it recover economically. 
I am sick and tired of the whingeing and moaning from members of the Opposition who want unemployment to go up, who want inflation to go up, who want the country to be ruined economically simply because they think they can make political capital out of it. What many people on the other side do not realise but the people outside this chamber do realise is that prior to the election of 1972 this country had one of the lowest inflation rates in the Western world. It had a stable employment situation. We left this country in a sound economic situation in 
December 1972, but within 3 short years the economic vandals opposite turned this country into one which had the highest inflation and highest unemployment that we have ever seen in Australia in peace time. It was a disgraceful exhibition of economic incompetence and mismanagement. Now when we are endeavouring to put this country back on the right track and we are already seeing the first signs, albeit small, of recovery- when there is a light at the end of the tunnel- we have a situation that the knockers in Australia are trying to impede the progress and development of a Budget which is designed to bring back confidence. I say to my friend, the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  who once again gives me the word, we are sick and tired of the Jeremiahs, the Jonahs and the moaners. Let us resolve tonight that people who come to this Parliament and stand up and whinge and knock Australia- the people who are trying to instil fear into the hearts of the peopleare behaving unpatriotically. Their actions are un-Australian. Their desire is purely political self-motivation. 
I implore honourable members opposite who are yet to speak to the Budget not to follow thenLeader; but follow the example of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  They should ignore everything the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  says. They will be much better off and the country will be much better off, because if ever this country has heard a leader say that he has not learned by his own mistakes it was what we heard on Tuesday night. The message that the Leader of the Opposition gave to Australia was this: If he is given another chance he will do exactly the same thing again. Not only has he not learned the lesson but also he is determined that if he gets another chance he is going to do to Australia what he did between 1972 and 1975, only next time he will probably do it more slowly. 
I believe that the people of Australia should be fully aware of the shameful hypocrisy of the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  and members of the Australian Labor Party who are trying to blame this Government for implementing a policy which was their creation. I want to say to the dockyard workers of Australia that there are backbench members of this Government who are sympathetic to their point of view. I also want them to know that the Labor Party is making cheap political capital out of them because it was that Party when in government which brought in the present shipbuilding policy; it was that Government which placed orders with overseas shipbuilding companies over the last 3 years. If that Government had been more concerned for the dockyard workers the industry would not be in the position it is in today. 
I do not want in any way to dignify the arguments put forward by the honourable member for Shortland. I did not intend to speak on this subject. In fact I believe that yesterday the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  completely demolished the Labor Party's campaign of cant and hypocrisy in trying to blame us for what is happening in the Australian shipyard industry today. 
I rise to speak on the question of federalism because that is a question which I believe is deliberately distorted by those who want to see a return in this country to the centralist type of government that Australia endured over the 3 years from 1972 to 1975. 
Frankly, it had a part in the destruction of Australian industry and productivity including the shipbuilding industry. 
When I speak of federalism I speak as one committed to it, not frightened of it. I speak of it as a dynamic policy which is good for the States and Australia and good for the men and women of this country. 
I think it is about time certain leaders of the Labor Party got their facts right before they go out into the public arena and endeavour to distort and corrupt the public interpretation of federalism. I adopt with respect the statement that federalism makes possible the most effective devolution of power and the most effective responses by governments to peoples' needs. I would remind all honourable members on whichever side of the House they sit that federalism is not merely a structural concept. Its principal justification is in fact a philosophical one. It means better government by governments with the people, not distant from them as the Labor Government was from 1972 to 1975. It means government which does not ignore the wishes of the people in dockyard areas or any other part of Australia. It means government which is close to the people. 
I am absolutely appalled that statements should be made such as were made yesterday by  Senator Wriedt,  the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, that it was the desire of the present Federal Government- I will quote him verbatimto destroy State and local governments because of its antagonism towards the public sector'. It is almost beyond comprehension that a national leader should make such an irresponsible and inaccurate statement. I am appalled that such a statement should come from a man who represents my State because the whole thrust of our policy is to let the State governments and local governments play their true role under the Federal system. We do not believe that all wisdom resides in Canberra. We do not believe that decisions made in Canberra are the only correct decisions. We believe in government by the people and for the people and that can only be close government under a Federal system. 
Stage 1 of the new federal policy is the Budget. Again we have the Jeremiahs and the Jonahs emerging from their corners. The Premier of Tasmania described the Budget in gloomy terms and used negative, destructive and pessimistic criticism. Compare his attitude with that of  Mr Wran,  the Premier of New South Wales, who said: 'We must give it a go for the sake of Australia. ' Let me remind honourable members what  Mr Wran  said and I publicly congratulate him for doing so. A newspaper article written on this subject stated: 
The Labor Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Wran,  last night urged people to support the Lynch Budget 'for the good of Australia. ' 'I'm prepared to give the Budget a go,' he said after a meeting of his Cabinet. 'I hope everyone will join together to get this country back on its feet ' 
These were not only wise words from  Mr Wran  but a recognition that this country was down and out, flat on its back after 3 years of Whitlam administration. Therefore I suggest that we should adopt a co-operative and optimistic attitude. I deplore the remarks that were made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  the other night in his speech on the Budget. What a pessimistic and gloomy performance that was. I suggest that honourable members would be far better equipped to tackle the problems of this country if we said that we are going to get people back into the work force, we are going to improve productivity and we are going to beat inflation. But as I said last night there are some people on the other side of the chamber who simply want to see inflation go up, who want to see dockyard workers out of employment, because this stirs up political trouble and they believe they can make cheap political capital out of it. I condemn those who use the present situation in Australian shipyards for cheap political purposes. I condemn them for treating with such contempt the men and women who will be put out of work largely as a result of the policies which the Labor Party itself introduced. 
I would like to make one final comment on this matter. I acknowledge that we do not have a shipyard industry in Tasmania. However, I recognise that the shipyard industry of this country is a critical one and is of particular concern with regard to defence. I want to say to the people who are concerned in this industry: Do not hesitate to contact Government backbenchers; do not hesitate to put your point of view because unlike the people on the other side of the chamber who have made political capital out of you today, we will be prepared to listen and if we can do anything to assist we most certainly will. 
I want to deal with only one other matter. I believe that I should raise this matter particularly in view of the visit to Canberra this afternoon of  Mr Neilson,  the Premier of Tasmania. My comments relate to a newspaper article which appeared in the Hobart  Mercury  on Tuesday last. The newspaper carried an article written by  Mr Wayne  Crawford who in my opinion is one of the fairest and finest political journalists in this country.  Mr Crawford  contended in his article that as a result of the cash flow from the Commonwealth to the States this year Tasmania appeared in his opinion to fare worse than other States in the distribution of Federal Government finances. I want to say with respect that I must refute  Mr Crawford's  contentions, and I do so in this place only because I have a very high regard for him and it would not be correct simply to let the matter pass without making some appropriate comment on the article. 
In the first instance I want to suggest that  Mr Crawford  has not stated the full picture and certainly some of his statistics are inaccurate or incomplete. Every State in Australia under our new federalism policy this year is receiving an increase of over 20 per cent in general revenues, and that is better than the States would have received under the Whitlam formula as it applied last year. Firstly, I draw to public attention the fact that Tasmania is receiving an increase in general revenues of 20.8 per cent which is above the national average of 20.3 per cent and not, as  Mr Crawford  suggested, below the national average. 
Secondly, I draw attention to the fact that Tasmania 's total allocation of Commonwealth payments is almost exactly the same in percentage terms for 1976-77 as it was in 1975-76. The figures speak for themselves. The total in 1976-76 was $4 16.5m and it rose to $444. in 1976-77. This represents 4.8 per cent of the national cake compared with Tasmania's population of 3.1 per cent of the total Australian population and Tasmania's contribution of only 2.6 per cent of income tax collections. 
Thirdly, the article in my opinion was inaccurate in that it failed to take into account the magnificent $20m freight equalisation scheme and other direct payments to Tasmania which were not included in volume No. 7 of the Budget papers. On the question of specific purpose grants, the fact that Tasmania received its Medibank payments earlier than other States and that in addition Tasmania had a higher proportion of Regional Employment Development scheme money than any other State greatly affected the 1976-77 figures. If these nonrecurrent unemployment relief grants are taken into account Tasmania's overall increase in total funds in the Budget amounts to 1 1.3 per cent and in respect of the increase in specific purpose funds the true increase is 4.8 per cent. I believe that all the States have done exceptionally well in their increase in general revenue grants, and that Tasmania is well above the national average in this field. 
-The year 1976 is the twenty-fifth anniversary of the signing of the ANZUS treaty, a treaty which has been the cornerstone of the foreign affairs and defence policy of this country for a quarter of a century under governments, both Liberal and Labor. At 6.30 a.m. today a United States vessel entered Port Phillip and arrived at the wharf. Because of the actions of a communist trade union leader, aided and abetted by people who should know better, that vessel, nuclear powered as it was, was forced to berth without the assistance of tugs, and whilst it remains in this country it and the wharf are declared black by communists who, in my opinion, are making a deliberate attempt to prevent Australia from honouring her treaty obligations under ANZUS. 
Worse still, the people concerned are aided and abetted by the Premier of the most heavily populated State in this country, New South Wales. Of course,  Mr Wran's  action in saying that vessels coming to this country pursuant to a treaty would not be welcome in New South Wales was completely unconstitutional. If  Mr Wran  gets his way and United States vessels are not permitted to enter New South Wales waters and use New South Wales port facilities,  Mr Wran,  single handed, will have created the situation whereby the most heavily populated State in Australia will be the worst defended from the point of view of naval strategy. For the people of New South Wales to accept a situation like that absolutely horrifies me. The question I ask rhetorically is this: If  Mr Wran  is so brazen as to say in peace time: 'We will not permit our allies' vessels into our waters ', who is to say that he will not take precisely the same attitude in war time? 
People may think I am being a little bit hard in relation to this matter, but I put my view forward quite reasonably and logically. Neville Wran knows that the visit of the  Truxtun,  the visit of the  Enterprise  and the visit of the  Long Beach  are all part of operation  Kangaroo II- an  ANZUS operation which has been planned for a considerable period of time and which is of the utmost strategic importance to the defence of this country. For that man to have the gall to say that those vessels which one day may be called upon to defend this country are not welcome in the State of New South Wales is unpatriotic in the extreme and should be condemned by every decent thinking Australia.  Mr Wran,  as Premier of the State, stands alongside a man like Ted Bull who boasts tonight that he is able to bring to a halt facilities which would normally be made available to any vessel entering the port of Melbourne and particularly a naval vessel under a treaty. For a communist to boast that he can use such power as virtually to make it impossible for our allies to feel welcome in this country is, I believe, disgraceful. Of course, we have not heard a word from the Opposition. 
A few years ago people like Bull would be branded as fifth columnists and traitors, and I brand him as such in 1976. 1 brand him as a man who is being disloyal to his country. If his sort of thinking gathers momentum, I suggest that the people in this country will come to realise that a small minority of communists has far more power in Australia than probably a similar group would have in countries which are known to have socialist or totalitarian regimes. I would not let this day pass without putting on record the fact that not one member of Her Majesty's Opposition has been patriotic enough to stand in this Parliament on this day and condemn out of hand the action of the communist trade union boss Bull in banning from using our wharf facilities a vessel which is sent here by one of our great allies under a treaty. I brand the Opposition as aiding and abetting the communists. I think it is a crying shame that we do not have men on the other side of the Parliament with enough courage to get up and condemn the communists and the left wing collaborators who are trying to break down our treaty arrangements. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is the Treasurer aware that the Tasmanian Budget brought down last week provides for the abolition or reduction of a number of sectional taxes, an increase in expenditure for 1 976-77 of 2 1 . 1 per cent and a deficit of less than $500,000? Is there any truth in the suggestion that the Tasmanian Budget was made possible only as a direct result of arrrangements made by the Tasmanian Premier with the Whitlam Government in respect of Medibank and the takeover of the Tasmanian railways, or is the Tasmanian Budget a clear vindication of our federalism policies? 
My question is supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Casey of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Did the Minister notice that the advertisement on page 63 of the  National Times  of 13 September, contained not only the name of  Mr R.  J. Hawke but also the names of practically every leading communist in this country, and announced what is called a National Conference for an Independent and Non-Aligned Australia to be held from 1 to 3 October in Melbourne? Has the Minister been invited to attend the said conference and will any representatives of his Department grace this bizarre event with their presence? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that it has been proposed that the USS  Enterprise  should pay a visit to Tasmania for recreation leave after the completion of Operation Kangaroo II? Is it further a fact that he has on 2 occasions requested an expression of attitude from the Tasmanian Government to a visit by nuclear powered vessels, including the USS  Enterprise,  to Tasmania? Has any reply been received to date from the Tasmanian Government on this vital defence matter? 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
Does that mean that I am not permitted to speak,  Mr Deputy  Chairman? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- That is so. 
I would like it to be recorded that I wished to express views on this matter and I have been prevented from expressing them in this Parliament. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- The motion has been proposed: 
That the question be now put. 

<graphic href="100131197609166_78_19_3_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="100131197609166_78_19_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="100131197609166_78_19_4_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="100131197609166_78_19_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question put. 
That the paragraph proposed to be inserted  (Dr Cass's amendment)  be inserted. 
I rise, not merely to support the Budget, but to congratulate most warmly the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on this, the first of many Budgets he will introduce into this Parliament. This Budget is not merely a document of confidence; it is not merely a document of reform. I believe that this Budget is one of the greatest social justice pronouncements of our time. It is incredible that so much has been achieved in such a short time when one considers that barely 9 months ago this country was in a state of economic chaos- on the verge of bankruptcy- as the direct result of 3 years of mismanagement by the previous Adminisration The Treasurer has dealt with the situation in such a way that a deficit which stood last year at $3.58 billion has been reduced to a projected deficit of $2.6 billion this financial year. At the same time, he has been able to achieve the social reforms which hold a paramount place in this document. These achievements are a tribute, I believe, which are due to and should be accepted by the Treasurer and by the Cabinet which has supported him so wholeheartedly. 
Before I deal with the Budget and what it does to enable Australia to continue successfully to march towards the 1980's, may I refer very briefly to the scandalous and fraudulent document circulated under the name of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in the form of his amendment to the second reading of Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1976-77. If ever there was an indictment of a claim which is patently false and which should be thrown back in the faces of the accusers, it is to be found in what is contained in this palpably untrue and demonstrably unworthy amendment moved to the Budget. Let me take the paras one by one. It is contended by the accusers of the Governmentthose who are trying to talk down the economy and those who are seeking to denigrate what this Government has achieved in 9 short months in office- that: 
it pursues a policy of unemployment as a weapon to reduce real wages and salaries. 
Those accusers are the very same men who in 3 years in office practically trebled unemployment in this country. They created more hardship and more misery than Australia has seen since the Depression. Yet, these men have the temerity, the gall and the shamelessness to accuse this Government of creating unemployment and using it as an economic weapon. That allegation is thrown back in their faces. That allegation is nothing more or less than a bare-faced lie. It will be rejected with contempt by the people of Australia, especially those who were thrown out of their jobs as a direct result of the economic vandalism of the previous administration. 
The second allegation made in the amendment is: 
it abdicates federal government responsibilities and forces the State governments and local governments either to reduce their services or institute additional charges, or both. 
In total, this is another lie or, should I say, a series of lies or a chapter of falsehoods which again will be rejected by those who can recognise the truth. When such an allegation is made at a time when general revenue payments to the States have been increased by 20.3 per cent this year and when a small State such as Tasmania has received an increase in revenues of 20.8 per cent, representing an extra $3 8m this year and  $4.5m  more than would have been received, under the wretched Whitlam formula, as Secretary of the Liberal Party Federal Affairs Committee, I respond to the accusation from the Opposition that we are abdicating our policy on federalism by asserting that we are bringing the concept of federalism back to this country after 3 years of centralist, socialist tyranny. 
Shortly, with the concurrence of my friend, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  I will seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the basic principles upon which our Government is restoring federalism to Australia today. I appeal to the honourable member for Adelaide, for whom I do have some time, to read this document and to recognise the principles. I believe it is a truism that the more centralist Australia becomes the greater the risk of a socialist takeover. I know the honourable member for Adelaide would not wish to be classified amongst those who wish either to centralise or to socialise this country. I ask for leave to have this document incorporated in  Hansard. 
I am obliged to the honourable member for Adelaide for his fairness. The third proposition contained in the amendment is: 
It introduces an additional tax in the form of the Medibank levy, thus further reducing consumer spending. 
That is another lie. The Medibank levy is not and never can be fairly described as a tax. It is a fee for service. I say to honourable members opposite that through the deliberate confusion that they have tried to whip up in the Australian community they have done a great disservice to the very system which their Government introduced. They have demonstrated to the Australian community that they are more interested in political point scoring than making Medibank work. Medibank was a creature of the Whitlam Government. These honourable gentlemen, having used it for a political purpose on an earlier occasion are now seeking to destroy it by confusing the Australian public. I say that they have been shown up as frauds and hypocrites. 
-They are finding voice tonight,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  But the people outside this Parliament know them to be frauds, hypocrites and charlatans because they are trying to use Medibank for purely political purposes. We on this side of the House are concerned with the health not only of the Australian economy but also of Australians themselves. 
I come to a further point in this amendment which is a shameful indictment of the Opposition. It alleges that the Budget: 
fails to institute selective stimulatory expenditure to reduce unemployment and restore consumer confidence. 
That is exactly what the Labor Party did from 1972 to 1975 and it practically bankrupted Australia in the process. We are coming to understand that not only did the Labor Party fail to learn from its previous mistakes but also that its members are blatantly saying that if they are given the chance they will do the same again. The young children in my family tell me that there is a song on the hit parade entitled  We Do It.  I do not know quite what that means. But I know that the hit song of the Labor Party for 1976 according to the Leader of the Opposition is  Hey, Let's Do It Again.  Let this be a warning to the people of Australia of what is in store for them if at some future time the Australian electorate decides to give the Labor Party another chance. Labor members behaved collectively like a group of defaulting solicitors, and the trust account of Australia was milked, and milked dry, not merely by negligence but, I suggest, by deliberate criminal irresponsibility. Now, when we are endeavouring to restore the economy and we are beginning to see the very first signs of this Government getting Australia back on to its feet, these people on the other side of the House still  do not realise the enormity of their guilt and still say, in essence, that they would do it again. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I believe that this amendment should not have been moved. I do not believe that the few responsible members of the Opposition side, including the honourable member for Adelaide, really have their hearts in it when they are called upon to support the amendment contained in this patently false and wasteful document. What is contained in the amendment is so false that, frankly, I do not believe it to be worthy of further consideration. 
I turn to the real document upon which Australia will be restored and upon which, under a Liberal-National Country Party Government, we will march into the 1980's with a strong and prosperous economy. The achievement of so much in such a short time is an enormous tribute to the drive and enthusiasm of our Treasurer. I should mention one other, if I may be permitted to do so, for whom I have the most enormous respect; that is our Minister for Social Security,  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle. As a result of the activity of the Treasurer and the Minister for Social Security, we have at last shown the pensioners of Australia that a Liberal-National Country Party Government not only will honour its promises but also will do more for them than Labor ever did. Can we remember back to those wonderful promises which were made in 1972 to the pensioners of Australia when a certain demagogue stood on the stage of the Blacktown Town Hall and promised them the world? But what did he do to them? The pensioners of Australia under the Whitlam Government were robbed and fleeced of millions of dollars because the promises made to them were not honoured and because - 
-A little publicised aspect of the work of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet is the duty of co-ordinating government administration and relations and communications with State governments. It is therefore appropriate, in the consideration of this section of the Estimates, that some remarks be directed to the question of communication between the Commonwealth Government and the State governments and, in particular, to the implementation in the first 9 months of our term in office of the new federalism policy. 
One goes back to 9 July 1900 to discover that Queen Victoria, with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal and the Commons, enacted the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act. Under the Act, on 1 January 1901 the Commonwealth of Australia came into being. It was the intention of the founding fathers that we were to have a federal system of government to guide this country into the twentieth century. Regrettably, the well intentioned desires of the founding fathers were frustrated considerably by governments, both Liberal and Labor, over the last 30-odd years by an increasing grabbing of power, if I may use that expression, to Canberra at the expense of the States. More and more we saw the decisions affecting the lives of every day Australians being made in Canberra, in many instances distant from and ignorant of the wishes of the persons those decisions were most likely to affect. 
I believe that one of the great hallmarks of the Liberal Party of Australia in the late 1960s and the early 1970s, culminating in our federalism policy, was a recognition of the dangers of centralism and a total recognition that centralised government distant from the people was not government of the people and was not in the interests of the country. Therefore, it was with some enthusiasm that in 1 974 the Party set about preparing for the eventual return to government and for the re-establishment of federalism in this country. What has been achieved in the last 9 months is nothing short of a miracle. I believe that we should appreciate from the outset that what we have done is not only to restore the federal system of government to this country but also to build into that system bulwarks which will prevent Australians from ever again being subjected to the 3 years of centralist tyranny which they suffered under the Whitlam Government from 1972 to 1975. Honourable members who are interested in the basic principles of the federalism policy will find that they have been incorporated in yesterday's  Hansard  record at pages 1257 to 1259. 
I come more directly to the point of what, in fact, is involved, what are the concepts and what has been the application of those concepts since we came  to power.  Federalism is not just a matter of fiscal relations; it is not just a matter of cash. It is a question of division and sharing of responsibilities for the better government of the people of Australia. Last Sunday, in this city, the Premier of Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court, made what I consider to be a profound contribution to discussion on this question when he drew attention to the fact that far too frequently people were inclined to measure federalism in terms of dollars and cents. He said that insufficient attention was being given to the division of powers and responsibilities as between the States. The former Prime Minister, the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has openly stated for many years his belief that Australia would be better governed by one centralist government operating from Canberra in conjunction with a number of regional organisations which would involve amalgamation of local government units right across the country. 
-That is right. At the moment we have 950-odd local government organisations throughout Australia. I believe that the former Prime Minister had in mind something of the order of 90 regions. He went on record many years ago in a Chifley Memorial Lecture in Melbourne as saying that the best service the State governments could perform would be to vote themselves out of office. Let there be no misunderstanding; the Leader of the Opposition has openly stated his view. I believe it is fair to say that that view is shared by the overwhelming majority of members of his Party. Only tonight we heard the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  repeating in this House that it is his belief that the Senate should be abolished, and I have no doubt this too is shared by the majority of the members of the Opposition. 
-My good friend, the honourable member for Grayndler, makes the point again. Let there be no misunderstanding; let the people of Australia know exactly where each Party stands. Members of  Her  Majesty's Opposition are saying quite clearly and categorically that they believe in centralist government and the abolition of the Senate. We are saying quite clearly and categorically that we believe in a system of federalism, a sharing of responsibilities and powers between the Commonwealth and the States. We believe that the Senate is essential to the protection of the States and in particular to the protection of the smaller States. 
I turn now to the fiscal aspects. It is somewhat significant that whilst there was a certain amount of squealing and wailing in the Labor camp a few weeks ago and predictions of gloom as to how bad things were going to be for the States under the federalism policy, the Budget Papers and the figures which have now become available make it clear how generous this Government has been to the States. They reveal that the Government does not simply pay lip service to the principle but is giving the States the financial wherewithal to enable them to do things which are best for Tasmanians, Victorians and Queenslanders in the States, not as a result of decisions which are made in Canberra. I draw attention to the fact that this year, although we are going through a period of economic recession and despite the fact that the Government inherited a situation of economic chaos from the previous Administration, general revenue funds to the States have been increased by 20.3 per cent. A massive sum of $3,743.2m is being paid to the States. 
There has been some complaint with respect to the specific purpose funds. I believe that the Parliament ought to note that the Commonwealth is making available to the States payments of a revenue nature amounting to $2,484m, an increase of 3 1.3 per cent. So that in the 2 major items- general revenue funds and specific purpose funds of a revenue nature- there are increases of 20.3 per cent on the one hand and 31.3 per cent on the other hand. Whereas the previous Government taxed and taxed until the public bled, we at least are giving back to the public a fair share of the tax and are giving the 
States the right to spend those moneys which are raised not in Canberra but right around Australia. The States are able to spend those moneys in the ways that are best for the people of those States. 
I draw attention to the fact that, in relation to general revenue assistance, a total of $3,7 16m- a record allocation from Canberra- has been paid back to the States. That represents 33.6 per cent of the personal income tax revenue raised in the Commonwealth of Australia for this financial year. The anticipated amount to be raised is $1 1,060m, and of that amount 33.6 per cent is being paid directly to the States to enable the Premiers and the Parliaments of those States to spend it in the interests of the residents of those States. 
I have taken a little time on this point because it absolutely galls me to hear people criticising our federalism policy. A couple of Labor Premiers have been critical of it, although I must be fair to  Mr Dunstan  because he has not been critical of our federalism policy. However, the Tasmanian Premier was. It is very pleasing to see that some members of the Tasmanian Parliament- and I imagine of the South Australian Parliament which has a Labor government and, I am certain, some members of the New South Wales Parliament-are starting to realise how generous this federalism policy is and how it is giving back to the States the real power to govern properly the people who have the honour to live therein. 
I think this matter was well summed up by a member of the Legislative Council of Tasmania last night, as reported in today's Press. The member for Queenborough made the following comments: 
The State has never been more wealthy and I wonder how, with all the money about, anyone in the Government can get up and belly-ache about a lack of funds from the Commonwealth. 
I believe that on a fair reading of the Budget Papers we are practising what we have preached, that we are putting reality into our commitment to restore federalism to this country. I trust that at the end of our term of office, when we come to the next general election, the people of Australia will say: 'At least we have had a government in power which was prepared to give practical effect to the Constitution of this country and to give back to the States and local government the right and the power to make decisions which strictly should be made in their own areas '. 
-Most honourable members would be aware that I had the honour to serve for 8 years as a member of the Tasmanian Parliament. During that period I found myself perpetually frustrated because of the fact that the Tasmanian State Parliament had no authority to deal with the question of pensions. I and many others on this side of the 
House do have a commitment to pensions and to pensioners. I just want very briefly, because I am going to abbreviate my remarks in view of the lateness of the hour, to refer to 3 matters which I believe should be mentioned before the House rises tonight. Firstly I seek leave- and the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  has indicated his approval- to incorporate in  Hansard  the new pensioners' income test which will come into operation on 25 November 1 976. 

 The document read as follows: 

-Secondly, I congratulate the Liberal Government on keeping its word to the pensioners, which I suggest is in marked contrast to the attitude of the previous Government which, as I said 2 nights ago, robbed the pensioners of Australia of millions and millions of dollars by permitting inflation to rise, at the same time eating away the true value of pensions, and permitting the number of pensioner medical service cards held at the commencement of Labor's term of office by 91 per cent of pensioners in Australia to be reduced to 84 per cent. I congratulate the Government on honouring its commitment to automatic twice yearly indexation of pensions. I wish to be heard on this occasion to urge the Government at the earliest possible opportunity to introduce quarterly indexation. We did not promise quarterly indexation but I am sure that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  who is sitting at the table will be aware that a large number of supporters of this Government are hopeful that as soon as economic circumstances permit quarterly indexation of pensions will be brought in. I have confidence that the Government will do this as soon as it is able. 
I ask the Acting Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations whether he is aware that the recent welcome announcement of the extension of the National Employment and Training scheme and the youth employment subsidy scheme has already had a most significant effect in focusing the community's attention on this Government's concern for the problem of employment of school leavers. Will the Minister now investigate the possibility of asking those States which have budgeted for a surplus for 1976-77, and in particular Tasmania, to apply some or all of their projected surpluses to funding complementary State schemes to combat youth unemployment? 
I direct my question to the Acting Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Further to my question yesterday to the Minister on the question of school leaver unemployment, what effect would the reduction of payroll tax have on the success of the extended National Employment and Training scheme and the Youth Employment Subsidy scheme? Will the question of payroll tax generally be discussed at the next meeting of State Ministers for Labour and Employment? 
I congratulate the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)-  indeed the entire Government- on the announcements which have been made today in relation to the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowances and tertiary allowances generally. I believe that today the Government has been vindicated against extremist critics who have contended without any justification whatsoever that it did not have a commitment either to education or to students attending tertiary institutions. At the present moment there are 84 000 recipients of Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowances. In 1977 there will be an estimated 91 000 recipients of the TEAS allowances. 
In 1956 when I started at the University of Tasmania 100 Commonwealth scholarships were allocated in each State in Australia and if one did not obtain a scholarship one's opportunities of going to university were extremely limited. Of course, those who did not hold scholarships had to pay fees. I have stated publicly and I pay tribute to the fact that it was the previous Government which abolished tertiary fees. I am delighted that the present Administration has now decided not to reintroduce university fees. Accordingly, I want to take a little time to consider what has happened in the field of tertiary education over the last few years including the period of the previous Administration. The Government has today genuinely indicated its commitment to many students in this country whose future from an educational point of view was in doubt. 
The increases which were announced today exceed those recommended by the Williams report, a report which was commissioned by the previous Administration and which was tabled in 1975. Because of the economic situation last year the previous Administration was not able to offer any increase in TEAS allowances. Therefore, students have been living on 1974 allowances, which were clearly inadequate having regard to the economic situation and the inflation which has occurred in the intervening period. Today increases of the order of 40 per cent in one field, 33 W per cent in another and 25 per cent in yet another have been announced. The tertiary allowances have now reached the stage where they are, in fact, only marginally below the age pension. I say for the record that I have said at the University of Tasmania and in other places that I would never support a situation in which student allowances exceeded the age pension because, quite frankly, that would run contrary to my beliefs and, I believe, the beliefs of any responsible government. 
We have now reached a situation where the Government has demonstrated a general commitment. Those who inspired the strike last week, those who suggested that  Senator Carrick  was not concerned about them and those who considered that the Government had no commitment to education have finished up with egg on their faces. 
I did not have an opportunity previously but I ask whoever is in charge of the Opposition for the time being whether I might have leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the new rates of allowances which are in fact contained in  Senator Carrick  's statement. It will save me a little time if I do not have to go through them. 
I would like to incorporate them in  Hansard  in the context of these remarks. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide has demonstrated once again how crass and ignorant he can be. It would have been very helpful to the students of Australia if I were able to give them a little speech, a small section of  Hansard,  setting out the increased allowances. Therefore I will endeavour to read as fast as I can the increases which have been announced today. However, my time has elapsed. Honourable members opposite have achieved their purpose and I hope they are satisfied. 
-As a committed federalist coming from the most federalist State in Australia I am proud and honoured to take part in this debate to support the Advisory Council for Inter-government Relations Bill and to commend the Government on its practical implementation of the new federalism policy. But first I must make some comments upon the 2 extraordinary speeches we have heard this afternoon from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  With the greatest respect to the Leader of the Opposition, he once again demonstrated clearly and unequivocally that he is the most unrepentant convicted centralist in this country. If he ever got back into a position of power he would pick up the threads of 1972-75 and set about destroying federalism in Australia. He is still the same man who wants to see the State governments destroyed and with them the power of the States. He is still the same man who wants to see the Senate destroyed. He is still the same man who wants to see all power vested in Canberra and the 900 local government organisations throughout the country reduced to 50 puppet regions to be dictated to in their goings on by bureaucrats in Canberra. 
The Leader of the Opposition stands convicted out of his own mouth as an unrepentant centralist and socialist swimming against the world tide which is as my colleague the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  so ably pointed out, towards devolution of power and greater federalism. The Leader of the Opposition, in his incredible speech, supported by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has censured each of the 6 State Premiers, including the Premiers of New South Wales, South Australia and Tasmania. He has passed a vote of no confidence in the Australian Council of Local Government Associations.  His  colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition- his blood brother- added injury to insult by denigrating Hobart as the choice of the secretariat for this Council. It appals me that the Leader of the Opposition can come into this chamber and make 3 statements which are demonstrably untrue. I shall deal with them one by one. 
The Leader of the Opposition claimed that the result of the New South Wales State election was a defeat for federalism. That is not true. The federalism policy had not even been fully announced at the time of that election. As my colleague, the honourable member for Sturt, mentioned earlier, many of the vital decisions were not taken until the June Premiers Conference which was several weeks after the New South Wales State election. I believe that honourable members from New South Wales who are honest will concede that, in the election, issues such as the New South Wales transport system, the question of milk zones, the nurses' strike and even funeral benefits all ranked in greater priority than federalism. So I throw back to the Leader of the Opposition the statement - 
And the broken promises, quite so, but his statement certainly was demonstrably untrue. The next claim by the Leader of the Opposition was that under Fraser federalism there would be less funds for the States and for local government. Again, that statement is demonstrably untrue. I shall deal with the position of the States, if I may. In relation to general revenue funds, this year the States have received the greatest allocation ever from Canberra. They have received a total of $3,743 billion, which is an increase of 20.3 per cent on the figures under the Whitlam formula. In relation to specific purpose funds of a revenue nature, the increased allocation to the States was 31.3 per cent on last year's figures, to a total  of $2,484  billion. When the Leader of the Opposition can stand in the Parliament and claim that local government is receiving less money under new federalism than it received before- this is in light of the fact that local government this year is receiving from the Fraser Government an increase of 75 per cent which brings its allocation to $ 140m- then, quite frankly, I wonder on what possible basis the Leader of the Opposition can expect his remarks to be given any credit or any recognition throughout the nation. 
As I have said, the Leader of the Opposition made a further statement which was a censure of every State Premier. He claimed that local government in the States would get their matters raised and put before the Council for Intergovernment Relations, only by the grace and favour, as he put it, of the State Premiers. Is he saying that  Mr Wran, Mr Dunstan  and  Mr Neilson,  will shut out the views of local government and not have them put before the Council for consideration? Is he claiming that  Mr Wran, Mr Neilson  and  Mr Dunstan  are determined to conspire together to prevent the voice of local government being heard and to prevent the problems of local government being considered by this Council? That is the effect of what he has said. 
The Leader of the Opposition was followed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. In an extraordinary incoherent diatribe he rambled on and on about some amendment which he intends to move in the committee stage which will give greater representation to local government. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition seemed still to be under the impression that there would be only 3 local government representatives on the Council. He is well behind the times because there will be six. Those 6 local government representatives are not the only citizens to be on the Council. I believe it is incredible that both the Leader of the Opposition and his  deputy  failed to advert to the fact that in addition to 6 local government representatives we, believing in the opinion of the grass roots of the community, are legislating for 5 community representatives to be appointed to the Council by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  but after consultation with the Premiers of the participating States. So 1 1 out of 22 members will represent local government and the community. For the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to say that 6 members are insufficient in a Council of 22 makes me wonder exactly what he is driving at. Does he want to see a situation in which the State representatives disappear completely? I think that is what he has in mind. That would be consistent with the centralist ideas of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that the States, as his leader has said, should disappear and that State parliaments should vote themselves out of existence. 
I shall now deal with the insulting remarks of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition about Hobart. I believe it is absolutely deplorable that that man, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, can stand in the Parliament and dare to suggest that Hobart does not have the facilities or the expertise to provide the secretariat for the Council - 
-To the whole of Tasmania, as my colleague from Braddon reminds me. This is the sort of treatment we received from the Whitlam government between 1972 and 1975. 
I am obliged to the Minister for Construction. This is the truth. Tasmanians are sick and tired of being treated as second rate Australians. I pay a tribute to the Prime Minister because on 9 December last year in Hobart he announced that this is not merely for Hobart- I am obliged to both my colleagues, the honourable members for Braddon and Franklin- it is for Tasmania. As an indication of the Federal Government's commitment to new federalism and as a recognition of the vital and historic role played by smaller States the Prime Minister gave a commitment to the people of Tasmania that the secretariat for the Council would be based in Hobart. That commitment is being honoured in this legislation. Quite frankly, we will not be the least disappointed if the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition never comes to Hobart again.  His  contribution to Hobart and Tasmania is minuscule. When he can stand in the national Parliament and denigrate the second oldest capital city in Australia, then I believe he is adding fuel to the flames as the Australian Labor Party goes down in Tasmania. According to the latest gallup poll that party's popularity rating in our State is 37 per cent. That, we think, is too high. I am sorry to be enraged but when people in the Parliament treat Hobartians, Hobart and Tasmanians as second raters - 
-That is right. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition seems to think we are not even worthy of consideration. That spurred me a little. I turn to the Bill. It is an important and historic step in the reintroduction to this country of true federalism. The sorts of dangers which we encountered from 1972 to 1975 were predicted by that great South Australian  Sir John  Cockburn in 1891 when, in an historic address, he made this comment: 
We know that the tendency is always to the centre, that the central authority constitutes a vortex which draws power to itself. Therefore all the buttresses and all the ties should be the other way, to enable the States to withstand the destruction of their powers by such absorption. 
The next words, I believe, are extremely significant in view of the Whitlam Government's performance particularly in dealing with the smaller States from 1972 to 1975.  Sir John  said this: 
Government at a central and distant point can never be government by the people and may be just as crushing a tyranny under republican or Commonwealth forms as under the most absolute monarchy. 
I believe that when the people of Australia on 13 December rejected the Whitlam Government and threw it out of office they did so for 2 reasons. They did so firstly because of its socialism. Secondly- and this was a close second- they did so because of its centralism. When they put the Liberal and National Country Parties back into power they gave us a mandate- indeed I believe they made it a commitment- to restore federalism in this country. When we restore federalism we are not just talking, as my colleague the honourable member for Sturt made very clear, about fiscal matters. We are talking about the whole structure of government to lead this country into the 1980s and into the twenty-first century. Accordingly the Liberal and National Country Parties support the concept of federalism in which there are 3 areas of government, namely, Federal, State and local, and in which the powers and functions are distributed to achieve a continuous response to and provide an effective barrier against centralised authoritarian control. I am talking here of the sort of centralised authoritarian control which we saw in Canberra in the years 1972 to 1975 which led to the crushing votes against the Labor Government in Tasmania, Western Australia and Queensland in particular. Tasmanians, Queenslanders and Western Australians and people in other States were sick and tired of having decisions which affect their lives made at that distant point of Canberra by people who frequently do not know the problems at the grass roots level and who in some cases regrettably follow the example of the centralist Ministers who do not really care about the problems at the grass roots level. 
I submit, therefore, that federalism is not merely a structural concept. Its principal justification is a philosophical one. It aims to prevent a dangerous concentration of power in a few hands and in so doing it provides a guarantee of political and individual freedom. I therefore contend that those who support federalism support freedom, not merely of State governments and local governments but at an individual level; that those who espouse centralism use it as a means to introduce socialism which is the enemy of freedom. Socialism can never succeed whilst people are free. As long as Australia is free I trust it will remain free of the scourge of socialism which regrettably had been inflicted on this country over the 3 years from 1 972 to 1 975. 
The Council will act as a living keystone of federalism. At the Premiers Conferences the Premiers confer, go away and come back 3 months later. This Council will be working in that intervening period on the matters referred to it by the Premiers Conferences. It will be a council, though based in Hobart in accordance with the Prime Minister's electoral commitment, that will sit in every capital city in Australia. I cannot for the life of me see why people should be critical of something which is based very much on the model of the United States Advisory Commission which has had a distinguished history over the 17 years it has been established.  Mr John  Ryan, a most distinguished American who is visiting Australia briefly in conjunction with the United States presidential election, visited Canberra today. He speaks highly. of the work of the United States Advisory Commission which is bipartisan and through which all levels of government have immediate access. Also the community has the right of direct approach and representation to the Commission. 
Of course, the Labor Party is trying to denigrate the constructive step that we have taken by painting it as a paper tiger. I have no desire to engage in a brawl with the Premier of Queensland, but I say publicly that this Council is strong enough to go on and it will go on notwithstanding, with respect, the comments of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  because it is a Council to which every Australian will have the right of access. For the Leader of the Opposition to contend that the recommendations of this Council will not have any great effect is absolute nonsense. The Bill provides that there shall be a report not only to the Prime Minister but also to the National Parliament and to each State Parliament. So every member of Parliament in the country will know what the Council has been considering and what its decisions are. I believe that the small and distant States will have a far better opportunity to have their problems discussed, understood and acted upon than they have under the existing arrangement. I draw attention to the fact that although State Leaders of the Opposition do not have access to the Premiers Conference they will have access by one means or another to this Council. Therefore the Council will not just be fed the line that a particular State government wishes to put forward. The Council will have the opportunity of getting the views from both government and opposition at State level, from local government and from members of the community who will serve upon it. 
Having said that might I make 2 final comments. I would like to draw attention to the actions of 2 State Premiers, both of whom on 10 April applauded the new federalism policy and both of whom have now done the most extraordinary turnabouts which must seriously damage their credibility and respect in the eyes of all reasonable and objective Australians. A report in the Adelaide  Advertiser  dated 10 April reported that  Mr Dunstan  emerged from the Premiers Conference smiling and said that the States would be receiving more that they had expected and that the new federalism was a genuine deal. It also reported that the Premier of Tasmania came out of the conference- he takes a little longer to think perhaps than does  Mr Dunstanand  was prepared to say that he expressed cautious satisfaction. But 7 weeks later the Premier of Tasmania made an incredible speech in which he said he had been conned. He has never quite explained what he meant but nevertheless he went out publicly and said that he had been conned. Last Friday night  Mr Wran,  the Premier of New South Wales, and  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, attended a fund raising dinner in the electorate of Sturt. Why they picked Sturt is difficult to understand, South Australians are absolutely amazed because there is no way known even if they work at it for 50 years, that Labor will dislodge the present honourable member for Sturt. But  Mr Dunstan  got up at this fund raising dinner and said that the new federalism was a fraud and a con job. What is behind all this? 
-That is the point. The honourable member for Casey took the words out of my mouth.  Mr Dunstan  is prepared to take the money. He is prepared to have a surplus of $51m. He is prepared to take all the money, to claim the credit for it and at the same time to denigrate the new federalism. Why are he and  Mr Wran  doing this? 
It is because they are playing politics with the people of Australia. They are trying to whip up antagonism to the new federalism, but underneath they know very well that they are better off than they would ever have been had the Whitlam formula continued. Whatever  Mr Dunstan  says he cannot deny the fact that South Australia is receiving more under the new federalism, as indeed is Tasmania and every other State, than it would have received had the Whitlam formula continued. I therefore say that both  Mr Wran  and  Mr Dunstan  stand publicly condemned for their hypocrisy in publicly denying and denouncing a policy which they know is going to work well for their States, which they know is going to enable them to bring in Budgets which are far more benevolent than they would otherwise be able to introduce. But they have the gall and hide to try to decry and destroy the basic policy upon which their States are flourishing. They therefore are publicly exposed as centralists, as dangerous, I suggest, as both the Leader of the Opposition and his  Deputy. 
I add a final word of caution to the people who live in the States governed by Labor Administrations: Watch what the governments are doing; they might very well be preparing the way to sell out your State in the event of a Labor government coming back to power at the federal level although I do not believe that will happen for many years. I commend the Government for making federalism in this country re-live. I commend the Government for introducing the legislation and for having the good sense to decide that the Council should have its secretariat in the most beautiful city in Australia. 
-Any chance which the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  had of attracting the support of the House has just disappeared with the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  The Leader of the Opposition is an unashamed centralist. For that, I believe, he should be given some credit because he does not try to conceal or deny- as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition did a few minutes ago- the fact that he is a centralist. Indeed the Leader of the Opposition is the greatest convicted centralist in Australia, having been convicted by the Australian people on 13 December. Accordingly, I looked with some care to see whether there was a centralist theme in the amendment which he proposes. And, would you believe it, there is! What the Leader of the Opposition proposes is that the Australian Council of 
Local Government Associations will dictate to each State the method of election of the representatives of local government in that State to serve on the Advisory Council for Intergovernment Relations. 
-The heavy hand of a centralist directive as to the method of election of representatives. The Advisory Council for Intergovernment Relations Bill is quite clear. I shall not take very long to make these points because I believe that even the Leader of the Opposition knows full well that the Bill is quite clear. It provides that there shall be one representative from local government from each of the 6 States of Australia. The reason the number was increased from three to six was simply to make it physically and numerically possible for there to be one representative from each State. I cannot for one moment conceive that the Council of Local Government Associations will take its charter under clause 8 ( 1 ) (k) and then say: 'We will not appoint one representative from South Australia and we will not appoint a representative from Queensland.' The second point is that the various States may desire their representatives to be chosen by different means. In Tasmania it might be that the executive makes the decision. In another State it may be decided that an election should be held. 
It is for those reasons that the amendment which is put forward by the Leader of the Opposition cannot be accepted. It would take away the rights of individual States to determine the way in which persons from those States are to go on to the Council. Secondly, it imposes a centralist directive. My final point is that I believe- I am sure the Leader of the Opposition will not deny thisthat this amendment does not come to the Parliament with the support and approval of the Council of Local Government Associations. That being so, I believe the amendment is not in good faith. Accordingly, it should not be accepted. The States should have the right, in accordance with the federalism principle, to decide how their representatives will be chosen, so that each one may be able to carry out his role on the Council, not feeling that he is in any way subject to centralist directive as he would be if this amendment were to go through. 

 -Mr Speaker, it may not be generally known, but the late  Senator Ivor  Greenwood had a very deep and abiding affection for the State of Tasmania and for the people of Tasmania. From the time of his election as a Victorian senator we in Tasmania felt that he adopted us.  His  very frequent visits to our State amply demonstrated to us his genuine affection for us and his commitment to the advancement and welfare of our State. I know I speak for all my fellow Tasmanian members of this House when I say that he quickly earned our admiration and respect and completely won our affection. He will be missed particularly by the Young Liberal Movement in Tasmania, to which body he gave so generously of his talents and his support. Above all, he loved the unique beauty of the Tasmanian environment. I was with him in his office barely 20 minutes before he suffered his collapse. He talked then with enthusiastic anticipation of the planned visit with his wife and children to Hobart the following week and of the trip that we had planned for him to the magnificent South West National Park. This was not merely a Minister performing the duties of his portfolio but also a man with a great love for the environment and the natural beauty of Australia. Today a distinguished life has ended,  closing the career of an eminent lawyer and parliamentarian, a defender of freedom and a fighter for the truth. We in Tasmania feel with great sadness today that we have lost a very true friend. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable members standing in their places. 

 Mr MALCOLM FRASER (Wannon-Prime Minister)-  Mr Speaker,  may I suggest that as a mark of respect to the memory of Ivor Greenwood, the sitting be suspended until 8 p.m. 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Does the honourable member ' claim to have been misrepresented? 
I do. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  who is in the chamber but not in his seat, said a few moments ago that I had called the people of Hobart plonkos'. I responded by saying that that was a lie, and at your direction,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I withdrew that statement. I wish to say that at no time have I ever referred to the people of Hobart as 'plonkos'. I invite the honourable member for Prospect to look at  Hansard  of 19 February, where he will see a reference in my maiden speech in which I said that I was not ashamed to claim some of the battlers and plonkos of Hobart as my friends. I suggest, with respect, that the honourable member for Prospect ought to speak the truth and not misquote other honourable members. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
-One of the major commitments to Tasmania by the Whitlam Government which had not been honoured as at 13 December last year was to transfer to Hobart the Antarctic Division of the Department of  Science. I  speak about the transfer of that Division and in so doing I pay a tribute to the previous honourable member for Denison who put forward the suggestion in early 1973 that, consistent with the Government's platform of decentralisation, it would be a very good move if the Antarctic Division were transferred from its several sites in Melbourne, Victoria, to southern Tasmania. The previous honourable member for Denison,  Mr John  Coates, put this proposal forward in 1973. It was recognised by the then Minister for Science and accepted. Regrettably, however, delay immediately commenced to ensue. It was not until early 1974 that Cabinet- that is of the Whitlam Governmentapproved in principle the transfer of the Antarctic Division to Hobart. For some reason which is very hard to understand, having made that decision Cabinet did not act to put the decision into effect. 
In April 1974 during the election campaign the then Prime Minister,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, when he spoke in Hoban reiterated the commitment and congratulated the then honourable member for Denison,  Mr Coates,  on putting forward the suggestion which his Government had accepted. Having regained office on 18 May 1974 the Whitlam Government proceeded to put the Antarctic Division file in the too-hard basket and nothing transpired. No funds were allocated in the 1974 Budget. No action was taken by the Whitlam Government to give effect to the commitment which it had given to the people of Tasmania. In early 1975 I commenced making what was a series of regular monthly contacts with Canberra to find out when the plans for the proposed transfer of the Antarctic Division would be placed before the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Public Works. As the records of one of the Committee's officers will show, I telephoned practically every month from January 1975 until September 1975. For some reason, somehow, somewhere, the transfer was allowed to go to sleep and to gather dust. It was not until about September 1975 that it became quite obvious to me that a stalling action was taking place and that the Whitlam Government had no intention of honouring the commitment which it had given to the people of Tasmania, and, in particular, to the electors of Denison. 
In the meantime the Government had acquired property at Kingston, not far from where I live. The property was left growing grass and feeding a number of cows. Apart from the fact that a sign was on the property stating that the Antarctic Division would be constructed there, no action took place. In September 1975, finally, the Whitlam Government decided to move. A reference was made to the Public Works Committee. That Committee was due to sit in Hobart in the first week of November last year. In the meantime, the constitutional crisis blew up.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  you will recall that at that time air fares and expenses for committees of the Parliament were curtailed. Accordingly, the Committee did not come to Hobart. The events of 1 1 November intervened, there was a general election, and the Fraser Government was elected. I was in the State Parliament when the idea was put forward by the former honourable member for Denison in this House. The proposal was applauded by all political sections of the Tasmanian community. A very good idea put forward in September 1973 was allowed to remain fallow by the Whitlam Government. As I say, the promise was not honoured despite the fact that a period of nearly 3 years had elapsed. 
In view of that situation and of the fact that it was necessary in the present economic situation for the present Government to announce a deferment of the transfer of the Antarctic Division, considerable speculation arose a few months ago as to whether the present Government intended to honour the commitment made by the previous Government. I shall summarise the position so that nobody is in any doubt. I refer to a question asked by me and an answer given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  which is recorded in  Hansard  of 1 8 May at page 2094. It states: 
Can the Prime Minister inform the House whether any decisions have been made by the Government on the transfer of the headquarters of the Antarctic Division to Hobart? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I will move: 
That this House notes with pride and sadness the 20th anniversary of the heroic and patriotic uprising of the people of Hungary in October 1956 and recalls their famous last message: ' Here we must live, here we will die ' and the valour of those who laid down their lives in the cause of freedom. and expresses the wish that one day the people of Hungary will have the opportunity to live in their country with the same rights and freedoms as those which are enjoyed by the people of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. With the intention of assisting Tasmanian manufacturing industry to cope with ever rising costs, will the Minister give consideration to asking the Telecommunications Commission to investigate the feasibility of permitting telexes, telegrams and telephone calls between Tasmanian manufacturers and their administrative and sales offices in mainland States at local call rates? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is it correct that already there are quite encouraging signs that employers are cooperating in this Government's schemes to encourage employment of school leavers and young people? Will the Minister advise the House in due course of the number of last year's school leavers who have already been placed in employment as the direct result of this Government's extension of the National Employment and Training scheme and the establishment of the youth employment subsidy scheme? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Transport. In view of its considerable importance to the Tasmanian manufacturing sector and to the Tasmanian economy generally, will the Minister advise the House of the progress being made on the guidelines and details of the proposed southbound freight equalisation scheme that is to operate between the mainland of Australia and Tasmania? 
-Speaking to the amendment, I am somewhat provoked by the remarks of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  Inessense, he has implied that this section of the Government's federalism policy, dealing as intimately as it does with local government, is not  bona fide.  If I might say so, the honourable member for Corio does not do any service to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or to the 6 State Premiers when he makes such a comment. It is inherent in what the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  has said that the arrangements for local government are not something which have arisen overnight. They were worked out at 2 Premiers Conferences, one in April and one on 10 June of this year. 
My honourable colleague reminds me that they were also worked out in February. I want to speak to this matter because I believe that the amendment, even though it is supported by the Opposition, does require some debate. It involves a matter affecting South Australia and it also has a certain effect as far as the State of Tasmania is concerned. The implication of the amendment is that there is a commitment by the Federal Government that local government assistance from the Commonwealth will be a continuing process, that the concrete has not set. There is no known way in which our Government will turn its back on local governments and say that it is not prepared to listen to their particular problems in relation to the federalism policy as it operates over the next few years. 
I think that 3 points ought to be made and made firmly at this juncture. The first is that the allocation to local government in each State was determined not by the Commonwealth Government but by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The percentage distributions are set out in clause 5 of the Bill and it will be seen that the various percentages applying in each State are in fact incorporated in the Bill. In order that I do not have to speak again on clause 5, may I just make a passing reference which I will relate to the amendment. I draw attention to the fact that the allocation to Tasmania is 2.8601 per cent of the Australian total. I repeat that that figure, along with the figures for the other 5 States, was determined by the Commonwealth Grants Commission, which in fact was responsible for the distribution of moneys to local government under the previous Administration and its charter has been continued under this Administration in the implementation of stage one of the federalism policy. I also remind the Committee that it was our Government that decided that general purpose financial assistance to the local government instrumentalities of Australia should be increased by 75 per cent to a total of $ 140m for the financial year 1976-77. That was a 75 per cent increase on the amount payable to local government under the previous formula employed by the previous Administration. 
Every State Premier knew on 10 June this year what the percentage allocation to his State was. I draw attention to the fact that only 2 days ago the Premier of Tasmania had the temerity to make a statement that Tasmania's share of income tax for local government was 2.86 per cent of the Australian total- less that the State would receive on a per capita basis.  Mr Neilson  went on to say that Tasmania has been treated shabbily by the legislation we are debating at the moment. I am not prepared to say how I got this information but I am prepared to say that I have had access to certain documents, some of which have been published in certain national publications, as to what went on at the Premiers Conference on 10 June. I want to say quite categorically that every Premier in Australia accepted the allocation for local government in his State. The only qualification by any Premier was a qualification by the Premier of Tasmania when he said: 'We will accept the allocation of 2.86 per cent for 1976-77 but we would like that to be reviewed by the Grants Commission at the end of this financial year.' No other State Premier quibbled or cavilled in any way as to the allocation of funds for his particular State. Therefore I believe it is absolutely incomprehensible that the Premier of Tasmania having accepted that arrangement on 10 June this year, should come out on 2 November this year and say that Tasmania has been shabbily treated. This is an indictment of his own performance at the Premiers Conference because at that Conference he pointed out that on a per capita basis Tasmania should be receiving 3.074 per cent of the Austraiian total. My arithmetic is always a little rough, but in very round figures, by accepting 2.86 per cent the Premier of Tasmania had probably cost the State of Tasmania something of the order of half a million dollars in assistance in the form of direct grants to local government. 
As the Minister has so correctly pointed out the import of the amendment is to indicate that unlike our opponents, who were inclined to legislate and that was it, our federalism policy is an on-going process. If there are changes in South Australia for example, in areas which are not now incorporated and they do become incorporated, obviously this formula will have to be reviewed. In the case of Tasmania where there is an assessment by the Grants Commission, if Tasmania is receiving less than it would receive on a per capita basis quite frankly that arrangement too will have to be reviewed. I am heartened by the fact that at the Premiers Conference on 10 June the Prime Minister said that the Federal Government was relaxed as to the time for a review. The review clearly will not take place in 5 years time. 
For this amendment to have the effect which the Minister and the Government desire it to have, I believe this review should take place at the completion of the year 1976-77. The areas of difficulty which have arisen can then be fairly and openly reviewed by the Grants Commission. Unlike the honourable member for Corio, I believe that the Commission is in a position to make a fair assessment not only of a per capita basis but also on a needs basis. It is very sad that the Opposition, in supporting the amendment, could not resist making the comment that in some way our Government was not concerned with the allocation of funds to local government on a needs basis. We are using the very same Commission that the previous Labor Government used. We are using the same basic formulae that it used when it was in office last year. 
In supporting the amendment I want to make some concluding remarks in respect of the Premier of Tasmania because the comments that he has made undermine the very agreement that every Premier in Australia entered into on 10 June this year in respect of the applicaton of the new federalism policy to local government. I believe there is nothing more likely to bring down our federal system than to have a situation in which a Prime Minister and 6 Premiers meet, they reach agreement, they are all content with what has been done and then months later after they have left the conference someone gets up and says: 'My State got a shabby deal'. If Tasmania did get a shabby deal it got a shabby deal because its views were not put with sufficient force and strength by the Premier of that day. 
Between now and the next meeting of the Grants Commission to deal with the allocation of money to local government there will be an election in the State of Tasmania and I do not have the slightest doubt that that election will lead to the return of a Liberal government in Tasmania. I am prepared to say publicly that I do not believe that a Liberal Premier of Tasmania would have accepted some of the things that the Tasmanian State Labor Premier accepted in relation to these negotiations. I go further and say that  Mr Bingham,  having entered into an agreement with the Federal Government, will not renege or stand up later and say that he had been conned or given a shabby deal. The point is that the Commonwealth Government's policies are working much to the annoyance and disappointment of the Opposition. We are bringing true federalism back to Australia. The amendment introduced by the Minister in conjunction with the legislation now before us means that local government is getting the best deal from the Fraser Government than it has ever received in the history of this country. We cannot deny that a 75 per cent increase in one year is something that has never happened before. The size of this increase proves that we are not only genuine but we are prepared to make federalism work in Australia in 1976. 
I wish to make an appeal tonight to all Australians to keep politics out of sport. Having been devoted to the sport of racing for 12 years, I want to say to this Parliament how disgusted I was at the pitiful attempt by a motley band of ratbags and yahoos to disrupt the presentation of the Melbourne Cup at Flemington racecourse last Tuesday. Veteran racegoers, track watchers and dockers swear that they had never seen them at Flemington before. But those interested in politics recognise them as the same old gang of cave dwellers who, like a travelling circus, follow the Governor-General around the country like a bunch of twits, annoying and disturbing. They have got about as much charm and appeal by now as the Andrews sisters. They are fast running out of an audience. Yet there they were, never having been seen at Flemington before, standing in water up to their hocks in a childish attempt to denigrate the Governor-General. They made complete and utter fools of themselves and, watching it on television, I wondered what Van der Hum thought about it all. I would not mind betting that if Van der Hum were allowed to speak he would say that none of them were fit even to muck out his stall. At the same time, I would suggest that none of them went there to watch the Melbourne Cup or the presentation but went there for the purposes of cheap political propaganda to denigrate a great Australian. 
The stewards displayed a considerable interest in them. The chief steward advised subsequently that he believed it was odds on that if they had been swabbed each one of them would have produced a positive swab on anything from morphine to hashish or heroin. The jockeys declared those of either sex to be unfit to ride. The trainers declared them to be chaff bandits and wasters, and the true thoroughbreds present-  Sir John  Kerr,  Sir Alex  Creswick, the Robinson brothers,  Mr and Mrs Abel  and jockey Bob Skelton- had the last laugh. I suggest that  Sir John  Kerr was absolutely magnificent in the way he handled these people in the remark he made to the New Zealand owners that it was not the horse and it was not the New Zealanders who were the object of the odd noises. The final comment at Flemington was that it was 10 to 1 on that they would not be seen at Flemington next year; that all present hoped that  Sir John  Kerr would be there next year and the year after to present the cup to sportsmen in the presence of sportsmen and that they would not again have the disgraceful situation of the magnificant turf of Flemington being desecrated by ratbags and yahoos who had no right to be there and who did no service to themselves or the people of this country. 
I rise very briefly to pay a tribute to 2 members of this honourable House in relation to 2 separate matters which I believe have a common link. Firstly, I wish to express what I believe to be the pleasure of all honourable members at the appointment to the ministry of the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee). Mr Speaker,  I noted with interest that when you called the Minister at question time today you noted the pleasure that you enjoyed, as did we all, in seeing the honourable member for Balaclava as a Minister in this Parliament. Without appearing in any way platitudinous, I noted with some interest today a report in the Melbourne Press of a comment made by an absent friend now representing this country temporarily at the  United Nations.  I refer to the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who, last year, apparently made the complaint that due to noise in the chamber he could not hear the honourable member for Balaclava. He added that the honourable member for Balaclava was one of the few on this side of the House who were worth listening to. 
I think it was pleasing that the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  had the honour of asking the new Minister for Productivity the very first question that he received in the chamber. The unbridled pleasure which was witnessed on both sides of the House at the appointment of this outstanding member of this Parliament, I believe, is something which ought not to pass unnoticed. He will be an outstanding Minister and if I might say so, as one who has admired the honourable member for a long time, I believe that all in this House will wish him well. 
I am aware that the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  wishes to speak and I shall make my remarks brief. The other honourable member to whom I wish to refer is the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom).  He has an enormous weight on his shoulders at this time and is fighting a very substantial battle for a very significant part of his electorate. It is a small speck on the map of Australia. I ask the House to take note that the honourable member for Braddon is endeavouring to retain part of his electorate which is on the brink of destruction. It would be a tragedy for this country if the west coast of Tasmania were to go out of existence as it may well do. I appeal to honourable members on both sides of the chamber to support the honourable member for Braddon in what he is doing. He certainly needs the support of this House if he is to save the west coast of Tasmania which is under a very grave threat of extinction. 
I desire to speak only briefly to the motion for the second reading of this Bill. When this Bill first appeared on the horizon I found it a somewhat unattractive document. I would like to record my appreciation to the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  for the time and trouble he has taken in explaining to the Law and Government Committee the basic principles behind this legislation. Many of the fears I originally held in respect of the access of Tasmania and other outlying States to the High Court of Australia have been allayed. In my respectful submission, it must be a fundamental principle that all persons in Australia have equal opportunities of access to the High Court of Australia, that Court being the highest court of appeal in the land. I believe that it would be a morally untenable position for any government to tolerate that residents in one State had easy access to the High Court but residents in outlying States found it not only difficult but also an expensive and time-consuming process to get access to the High Court. 
Many of the problems which have existed in the past have related to the need for litigants in States such as Tasmania and Western Australia in particular to travel to Melbourne or Sydney to make an application for leave to appeal to the High Court, frequently in cases in which to appeal to the Full Court of the State and then to appeal to the High Court could have meant a delay of up to 12 months or in one case up to 15 months. A litigant could go bankrupt waiting to .get his matter determined. I believe that the principle that justice delayed is justice denied would be breached if we ever created a situation in which litigants in any remote part of Australia found it difficult to get their cases heard and determined with some degree of speed. 
I commend the Attorney-General because I believe that, flowing from the discussions which have taken place on this legislation, a more streamlined approach in regard to applications for leave to appeal to the High Court will be available. In particular, I hope that the High Court will make it possible for a single judge to travel interstate and hear applications for special leave to appeal in the State from which the appeal originates rather than have the present expensive and archaic system whereby litigants have to travel at considerable expense from Western Australia, Tasmania and Queensland to Melbourne or Sydney to have their applications heard. For example, in a case in which a man had a right to appeal to the High Court of Australia and also to the Full Court of the Supreme Court of Tasmania last year and chose to make an application to go direct to the High Court, the cost of the application for leave to appeal direct to the High Court, which he lost, was almost $3,000. That sum basically was eaten up by travelling expenses, costs in preparing the documents and counsel's fees. 
The point I am making is this: The High Court belongs to the people of Australia. It is not the province of just those who live in the most populous States. Within the next 5 years the High Court probably will move to Canberra. The point has been made on many occasions that Canberra is not the font of all wisdom in this country. I hope that, if the High Court does move to Canberra within the next five to ten years, it will not forget that there are people in other parts of Australia who will want access to that Court and might very well need assistance to get their matters brought on speedily. I therefore ask the Attorney-General, although really it is a matter not for him but for the ChiefJustice of the High Court, to bear in mind that the Court since its inception for nearly three-quarters of a century, has travelled to every State in Australia. When that stops, the Court ought to give consideration to sending at least a single judge interstate to hear applications for special leave to appeal. If that is not feasible the Commonwealth will have to look very closely at the idea of setting up a fund to subsidise the costs of litigants travelling from States such as Western Australia, Queensland and Tasmania to have their matters heard. 
I leave that matter with the Attorney-General with some degree of confidence. I hope that Order 75 of the High Court Rules is looked at. I hope that we get to a situation in which applications for special leave can be made  ex parte,  according to a written form. Anything that should be done must be done to provide equal access to the High Court of Australia for all Australians. If the High Court of Australia becomes the domain of the rich who live in New South Wales and Victoria and if it becomes inaccessible to the poor who live in the more outlying and less populous States, it will cease to be the High Court of Australia. I am convinced that this is not the wish of the Attorney-General, or of this Government, or of the shadow AttorneyGeneral. I support the Bill but I record my earnest belief that the moment the High Court ceases to be accessible on economic grounds- that is from a financial point of view- to all Australians we will have succeeded in destroying the High Court. I do not want to see that happen. On that basis I support the legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 and 2- by leave- taken together and agreed to. 
Proposed new clauses 2a, 2b and 2C. 
-I am obliged to the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  for permitting me to make some comments on a matter which is of particular concern to the electorate of Denison and to the people of Hobart. It relates specifically to the proposal to transfer the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education, which has been situated at the Mount Nelson campus for several years, to the Newnham campus in Launceston and, in fact, to close down what has been, I believe, a very worthy addition to tertiary education in southern Tasmania. It will be well known, I believe, by most honourable members who are interested in the field of education that the Karmel report dealt specifically with the field of tertiary education, which included the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education and the University of Tasmania. 
In essence, the Karmel report recommended that the Mount Nelson campus of the TCAE be closed down and that a college of advanced education, which would be an autonomous body, be established in northern Tasmania. That report has been generally accepted in spirit but, from a practical point of view, I believe it presents very substantial problems. The State Government of Tasmania found difficulty in the implementation of the report and referred it to the Cosgrove Committee to advise the Government as to the practicality of the transfer of the TCAE. From the very day the report was released I made it quite clear publicly that I did not wish to see, and that I would do everything in my power to prevent, the transfer to northern Tasmania of the School of Art which was attached to the TCAE at Mount Nelson and which in fact has existed in Hobart since 1891. 
-I completely agree with the honourable member and I believe that it would be nothing short of a tragedy if the School of Art was transferred to northern Tasmania. I have said publicly in Hobart, and I feel that it is my duty to put it on record in this Parliament, that I can no longer remain silent on the question of the dismantling and abolition of the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education at Mount Nelson. I am opposed to the disbandment of the College of Advanced Education there and I hope that while it is a matter for the State Government, the State Parliament of Tasmania will give very serious consideration to deferring the implementation of the recommendations of the Karmel report, perhaps by way of a moratorium for at least 12 months, to enable all the implications to be carefully examined and assessed. I do not want to remain silent on this issue. Indeed, I believe I would be in breach of my duty as the member of Parliament representing the electorate of Denison if I remained silent and witnessed the dismantling of this College of Advanced Education. I believe that Tasmania needs 2 colleges of advanced education in conjunction with the other tertiary education facility available in Tasmania, namely, the University of Tasmania. I find it very hard to accept the proposition that because there is a College of Advanced Education in Hobart and a smaller college at Newnham campus, the Hobart College should be abolished and transferred to Launceston because there is a Universty in Hobart. I do not wish to extend the indulgence which the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has allowed me in permitting me to intrude into the debate but I wish to say that not only should the School of Art not be transferred to Launceston but also that the School of Environmental Design and Planning must be kept in Hobart. 
-I am reminded by my colleague that it would be nothing short of scandalous if the facilities of the Department of Physical Education which were specially set up at Mount Nelson were to be transferred to northern Tasmania. Those facilities are the result of many years planning. They represent a multimillion dollar project. They are perhaps the most magnificent physical education facilities in the whole of the Commonwealth of Australia. It would be nothing short of a scandal if those facilities were put to some other less significant use and the department transferred to northern Tasmania. Finally, I refer to the question which has been recently drawn to my attention and to that of my colleagues, namely, that the facilities for engineering training in northern Tasmania will not provide young persons with the opportunity of qualifying to the same standard, as they have been able to qualify at Mount Nelson. A number of young people who wish to take these courses will no longer have that opportunity. They will be deprived of the opportunity of developing in the field of engineering. Having made those remarks, I emphasise that the decision on this matter is one for the Tasmanian Parliament. I commend publicly that State Liberal spokesman on Education,  Mr Mather  MHA, for the time and trouble he has taken on this matter. I appeal to the State Government not to take precipitate action, and I recommend publicly that there should be a moratorium on the implementation of the Karmel report for a period of 12 months in order that all the implications can be assessed and irreparable damage will not be caused to tertiary education in Tasmania. 
As one who a couple of months ago was mildly critical of the Government in relation to the vexed question of unemployment of school leavers and as one who took considerable pleasure from the introduction of the special youth employment program, I bring to the attention of the House the success that that program has had in Tasmania, particularly in the Hobart area. At the time this program was introduced, Tasmania had the highest rate of unemployed 1975 school leavers of any State. What has been achieved in a period of a few weeks I suggest is not only almost unbelievable but also is a great tribute to the initiative shown by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and the Government. It would surprise many people in this chamber to know that in October unemployment in the Hobart area dropped by nearly 12 per cent. I do not believe there would be too many places in Australia which could claim such a dramatic drop in unemployment at a time when the pariahs and jonahs on the other side of the chamber and a number of speculators and prophets of doom are trying to talk down the economic recovery which has been so carefully planned and which is now starting to show its true worth. There are honourable members on the other side of the chamber who regrettably take pleasure in being able to point to high unemployment figures and high inflation figures and say that our policies are not working. But the facts here are undisputable. 
In Hobart the unemployment figure fell by 12 per cent in October. At the end of September 4133 people were out of work in Hobart but by the end of October that figure had been reduced by 455. In addition, and even more encouraging, was the fact that unfilled vacancies in the Hobart area increased in that month by nearly 25 per cent. At the end of September there were 412 unfilled vacancies in the Hobart area while at the end of October that figure had risen dramatically to 513. That is clear, inescapable proof that the policies of the Government are commencing to work. Under the special youth employment projects, which the Labor Party knocked and said were not worth a cracker but were only window dressing, nearly 100 young Tasmanians were placed in jobs in the first three weeks of that program's operation and 150 employers have come forward and notified vacancies under the program. Nearly 100 of those vacancies have been filled. I am proud to say that where we had a situation this time last year under the Labor Government with nearly 500 school leavers from 1974 still out of work one year after they left school, this year at the end of October there were only 233 school leavers from 1975 still out of work. That is an amazing tribute to the special youth employment program. It knocks completely on the head the remarks of the jeremiahs and jonahs on the other side of the chamber who said that it would not work. As the Minister has said, this pattern is showing up in other parts of Australia and young people are being found jobs and being included in the work force as a direct result of the initiatives of this Government. We on this side take a progressive and active role in getting young people into the work force whereas those on the other side of the chamber prefer to see soaring unemployment figures because they still believe that by continually knocking, by perpetually whingeing and by running down the economy they will in some way prevent the economic recovery which is just around the corner. 
I add one final comment in relation to unemployment generally. I believe it is about time certain Press journalists stopped making comments and speculations which have the effect of bringing about economic downturn and speculation. In particular I refer to articles published last week speculating on the devaluation of the dollar. This is an extremely harmful exercise and leads to economic consequences which can only bring about misery and hardship. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  speculated so dangerously about devaluation a few months ago. This is not assisting the recovery; it is leading only to greater uncertainty and will lead to greater hardship for the people of Australia. These speculators ought to shut up and allow the economy to recover instead of using it for cheap political purposes. 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister been informed that the Government's decision on devaluation has been universally praised in Tasmania by the Liberal Leader - 
I oppose the amendment but in doing so I want to make it quite clear- and I think it is well known in this place and outside- that I have fought and worked for the last 2 months to retain on the Australian Broadcasting Commission the duly elected commissioner elected by a vote of the Australian Broadcasting Commission Staff Association. I do not believe there is any inconsistency in opposing the amendment put forward by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  tonight and in taking the stand which I have taken in respect of the other matter. I want to point out, with respect, that the honourable member for Maribyrnong and his Government had 3 years in which to write this into the legislation, had they so chosen to do. The fact that they did not does not mean that in 1 976 or 1 977 it would not be appropriate to write some sort of amendment into the legislation. But I cannot support it tonight and the principal reason is that as a result of the decision of the Government and the announcement of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson),  the particular commissioner will be remaining in office until 1978. Also, if the role and position of one commissioner is to be prescribed or specifically defined, it is a matter of logic that others will say: Why do you not set down criteria in respect of other commissioners? I wish to place on record in this debate that I and this Government are totally committed to the absolute independence of the ABC. I feel I am entitled to make that statement because not only has the Minister made a similar statement on a number of occasions but also the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has done so on a number of occasions. It was actually demonstrated to the nation on 2 occasions last week. I draw attention to those 2 occasions because I believe that Parliament should take note of what occurred. 
The first occasion was the public  contretemps  between the Prime Minister and the  Chairman  of the Commission. I say frankly that nothing but good has come out of that public difference of opinion. The Prime Minister expressed a view, as he was entitled to do, with respect to the cut backs to the ABC. The  Chairman  of the Commission responded by saying that he would not be prepared to see the Australian Broadcasting Commission subject to any political interference. 
We saw on the ABC television news on Thursday night- no doubt it is kept on videotape- the  Chairman  of the Commission protesting against political comment by the Prime Minister of Australia. The Prime Minister is on record as saying: 'Quite right. The public will now realise that we are in fact not exerting political pressure '.' I believe even the honourable member for Maribyrnong would take comfort from the fact that when public confrontation of that nature occurs there can no longer be any doubt that this Government will not seek to interfere politically with the ABC and will not seek to impose its will upon the ABC. The  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, with the support of every single commissioner, and no doubt the staff and management of the ABC, will not tolerate political interference. Let us put an end to the nonsense that in some way the Fraser Government is seeking to impose its political will on the Australian Broadcasting Commission. For as long as I have the honour to be a member of this Parliament, and after, I will oppose any political interference to the ABC, whether it comes from the Liberal side of politics or from the Labor side of politics. I believe that the overwhelming majority of Australians want to see an ABC which is independent and free from political control. 
The second matter to which I want to refer briefly is the question which surrounds clause 9 and the amendment moved to it by the honourable member for Maribyrnong. Clause 9 concerns the continuation in office of the Australian Broadcasting Commission Staff Association commissioner. I want to say frankly that I regard it as less than just that the Press saw fit to report the change of decision on that part of the Government last week as a backdown. I want to say publicly that I am proud to be a supporter of a government which is prepared to reconsider its position and in particular is prepared to pay some attention to the opinions expressed by its back benchers. From 1972 to 1975 Australia had a goverment which never paid attention to the opinions of its back benchers. I want to say that rather than being a backdown, the announcement by the Minister on Friday of last week represented on behalf of the Government an acceptance of a broad consensus from the back bench and from the community. I reflect on no Minister when I say it does not matter whether the Liberal Party or the Labor Party is in power that many backbenchers are closer to the people and more in touch with public opinion than are many Ministers. 
I say with respect to the Minister that never have I had an opportunity to deal with a Minister who is more willing to meet, more willing to discuss and more willing to debate questions of Government policy which come before the Parliament. If I were a member of the ABC staff I would say 'Thank Heaven' that the ABC has a Minister of the calibre of the present Minister. I say this because he has shown over the last few weeks under the glare of national publicity that he is a man who is prepared to talk, listen and come up with a compromise solution. As I said earlier I have fought for the retention of Marius Webb. I do not even know him. I have never spoken one word to him, but he is the duly elected representative of the ABC Staff Association. In all this period the Minister has been prepared to receive deputations and views from inside this Parliament and outside this Parliament at all hours of the day and night. I can say, without reflecting on any other Minister- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  I remind the honourable member for Denison that the amendment under debate does not really concern the Minister. 
-Thank you, sir. I take the point. I will return to the amendment. I just wanted to make the point, before moving to my last remarks on the clause, that the Minister in my opinion has handled this matter absolutely magnificently. 
Without in any way being disrespectful to the honourable member for Maribyrnong, let me remind the Parliament, the nation and the State of Tasmania that when a vacancy occurred on the Commission during the term of the Whitlam Government a Tasmanian was to be appointed. I say, with no disrespect to my Victorian colleagues, that a Tasmanian was not appointed; a lady from Victoria was appointed. With the greatest respect to the lady concerned I think it was unfortunate that a Tasmanian was left off the Commission and still remains left off. Like the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  who asked the Minister to give some indication about Tasmanian representation, I think it is fair to say that the Minister has made it quite clear that a Tasmanian representative will be appointed to the Commission very shortly and a Tasmanian will remain on that Commission for as long as this Government is in office. I hope that in the long distant future when the Government changes the new Government agrees with the principle that there will never be an Australian Broadcasting Commission without a Tasmanian or, I hope, without a South Australian. 
For those reasons I have to oppose the amendment. I ask the Minister to give some consideration to an amendment being introduced within the next 12 months to give some form of representation to the staff of the Australian Broadcasting Commission on the Commission. It need not necessarily be a separately elected commissioner. It could be an office bearer. With those remarks I commend the Minister, as I believe he should be commended for the job he has done in respect of this legislation. I wish it every success. I hope the Government now will be recognised by the people of Australia as not wishing to indulge in any political interference whatsoever with the ABC. 
I support the Bill. I seek your indulgence,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to address a few remarks which are a little wide of the narrow issues contained in the Bill. As the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  has pointed out, the purpose of this Bill is to reaffirm the situation in the defence force compact of the Royal Australian Air Force and, in particular, the confusion which has occurred in the past by the use of the words ' Air Office' which will now be replaced by virtue of this legislation with the words 'Air Force Office '. The 'Defence Instructions (Air)' issued by the Chief of the Air Staff under the Defence Act will become 'Defence Instructions (Air Force)'. In introducing the Bill the Minister for Defence,  (Mr Killen)  in his own inimitable style said: 
. I do not think it is the sort of Bill which will cause tumult throughout the country. 
Nevertheless it was a Bm which he commended to honourable members. I believe it is an opportune time just to consider the situation in relation to the Air Force generally in view of the fact that this Bill does reaffirm a most important criterion in the structure of the RAAF. I suppose I could be pardoned if I made some general comment though, I add, not in a scathing or critical way on the situation of the RAAF insofar as it affects the State of Tasmania. I will not abuse any privilege which you extend to me,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to allow me to address a few remarks m this regard because I do regard it as extremely important at this point in time- I note that the Minister for Defence is present in the chamber- to assess the situation of the RAAF and in particular in respect of the security and surveillance of the State of Tasmania. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House places on record its extreme regret at the action of the Czechosolvakian Government in arresting and imprisoning 6 civil liberties dissidents, including the civil rights leader Frantisek Krieqel, the distinguished writer 
Pavel Kohout and the former Czech Foreign Minister Jiri Hajek, following the publication in Prague in January this year of the Human Rights Charter known as Charter 77 signed by over 240 scholars, writers and politicians demanding the restoration of basic civil rights in Czechoslovakia as guaranteed by the Helsinki pact of 1975 and further, this House calls upon the Czechoslovakian Government to restore basic civil rights to all citizens of Czechoslovakia regardless of their political or religious affiliations. 
I believe that these four Bills are significant and historic legislative proposals which will lead to the people of Australia being given an early opportunity to amend and update the Commonwealth Constitution. These Bills should be passed and I hope that all the referendum proposals will in due course be passed by the Australian people with the majority of voters in Australia and the majority of States supporting them. Five purposes will be achieved by the passage of the referendum proposals. Firstly and most importantly, this gives the Australian people an opportunity to pass a referendum which will have the effect of updating and contemporising the Australian Constitution consistent with the needs of Australia in 1977. I do not feel in any way daunted by the fact that previous referendum proposals have not had a good record of success. I hope that on this occasion the Australian people will support the 4 proposals which we bring before them. 
Secondly, I believe that the referendum proposals will at long last bring democracy into constitutional reform by giving the right to vote to over 300 000 Australians who happen to live in the Territories. I will deal with that m more detail later. Thirdly, the referendum proposals will properly synchronise Senate and House of Representative elections at a considerable saving in cost to the Australian taxpayer, avoiding unnecessary, time consuming duplication of elections. I suggest that the Australian people are well and truly tired of repeated elections and the possibility of elections twice every 3 years. These proposals will lead to more stable and better government. Fourthly, I believe that they will prevent the will of the electors being thwarted and twisted when casual Senate vacancies occur. 
The proposals which are now to come before the Australian people are remarkably, strikingly similar to those which exist under the Hare-Clark system which operates in Tasmania. There is only one slight variation, and that is that in the case of a casual vacancy occurring as a result of a person elected to the House of Assembly in Tasmania dying, resigning or being unable to hold his seat, his votes are in fact recounted and the next person who would have been elected on his preferences takes office. At least by virtue of the referendum proposals we are now bringing before the Australian people they will know that if they elect a Liberal senator or a Labor senator at an election and that senator ceases to hold office for any purpose whatsoever during the ensuing period of his term of office, he will be replaced by a Liberal senator or a Labor senator as the case may be. 
I shall deal in detail with the 2 instances which occurred in 1974 and 197S when the wishes of the electors of New South Wales and Queensland, in my respectful submission, were thwarted and twisted. They found that, when vacancies occurred, instead of their votes still counting, they were then represented by persons for whom they would never have voted and who indeed were not even candidates at the elections at which their original choice received their number one vote. 
Lastly, the referendum proposal will contemporise the High Court of Australia and the Federal Court of Australia by legislating for an earner retirement of judges, which must in turn lead to the appointment of younger judges. Without meaning any disrespect to elderly members of the judiciary, many of whom are distinguished and have had a most outstanding career in the law, I believe that younger judges are closer to the people and that younger judges can offer much more to a growing and developing country such as Australia. Indeed, in regard to this particular aspect, it is significant to note that in every State of Australia there exists at the moment a compulsory retiring age for State judges. It is little less tha,n paradoxical that the situation does not apply with respect to Federal judges, including the judges who sit upon the highest court in this country determining the most vital constitutional questions. I repeat that I do not wish in any way to indicate any disrespect to any sitting judge over the age of 70 years, but I do believe, as I believed when I was a member of the Tasmanian Parliament and when I voted in favour identical legislation, that there should be a retiring ase forjudges as there is a retiring age for practically all other public offices. 
I shall deal with the matters in order. First and foremost is the proposition to amend the Constitution to give the electors of the Territories of Australia a right to vote. That is a proposition which I regard as being absolutely fundamental. I have the greatest trouble in digesting the troglodyte arguments of those who contend that for some reason persons who live in the Australian Capital Territory and in the Northern Territory or, indeed, on Norfolk Island should not be given the right to vote at referendums when they are given the right to vote at elections. We have the extraordinary situation of the residents of Lord Howe Island, being classified as residents of New South Wales-I think I am correct in saying that Lord Howe Island is part of the electorate of Sydney-having the right to vote at referenda and at Federal elections but their colleagues who live 400 miles, or whatever it is, to the north-east of them on Norfolk Island are denied the right to vote in referenda. This is a matter which has engaged the attention for a considerable period of time of those who believe in democracy. 
The Northern Territorians have been asking for the right to vote at referendums since as long ago as 1965 when they did not even have a fully elected Legislative Council, as it then was. In 1973-74 the Australian Constitutional Convention Standing Committee B looked into this matter. In fact, it went to the Northern Territory, took evidence and made a unanimous recommendation. The membership of that Committee, which included myself, comprised persons of widely varying political backgrounds. I intend to read out the names of the members of that Committee simply to indicate to those people listening to the debate and those people who may read this debate later that it included people from the extreme left and the extreme right of Australian politics, State and Federal, who supported this proposition unanimously when they inquired into the matter. Members of that Committee included the present  Deputy  Premier of Victoria, the Honourable Lindsay Thompson; our Minister for Defence in this Parliament, the Honourable D. J. Killen;  Senator James  McClelland; the Honourable S. D. Einfeld from New South Wales; the Honourable Ren DeGaris from South Australia; the present leader of the Labor Party in Western Australia, the Honourable C. J. Jamieson, M.L.A.;  Mr R.  C. Ward, Q.C., M.L.C., from the Northern Territory, now  Mr Justice  Ward; and, last but not least, that redoubtable figure of Australian politics, particularly in the field of local government, the Rt Honourable Alderman H. Brennan, Lord Mayor of Darwin. 
When you can get Tiger Brennan, Ren DeGaris, Jim Killen and all those other people agreeing, as in fact they did by unanimous resolution- we recommended that the Constitution be altered to provide that residents of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory should be granted the right to vote at referendums, and we went on to draw attention to the situation with respect to residents of Norfolk Island- I suggest it should indicate to all fair thinking men, regardless of their political background, the weight and merit of it. I sought leave of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  to incorporate in  Hansard  a section of page 8 of the report of the Australian Constitutional Convention Standing Committee B which was published in August 1974. He indicated to me that if he were absent from the chamber when I wished to make that incorporation I need only mention that he had granted leave for it to be incorporated. I seek leave so to do. 
Queensland has its own particular and peculiar problems. The honourable member would know that. 
-The honourable member is very upset because last night I referred to him as a troglodyte and he did not know whether he was being insulted or praised. The point I make- I say this without any disrespect to former  Senator Field,  of course- is that the Field type situation can never again arise. If a party says that a person who has been nominated for the Senate is not acceptable to it he cannot take his seat. I said to the Attorney-General earlier- I have considered the matter carefully and have reviewed the view that I previously took- that it was a pity, as I then thought, that the right of State Governors to fix the time for a Senate election was being taken from them. But it has been correctly pointed out to me that that in fact has to be done to give efficacy to the amendment and that, in any event, in respect of double dissolutions it will be the Governor-General of Australia and not the State Governors who will declare the time and the date for the appropriate Senate election in conjunction with that for the House of Representatives. 
I repeat that I do not intend any reflection upon either former  Senator Bunton  or former  Senator Field.  I commend the Government for the proposal. It is a pity that perhaps the proposal does not go quite so far as it could; for example, by employing the Hare-Clark system as it applies in Tasmania so that the votes could have been counted. Perhaps the political parties could have added reserve Senate candidates to take office in the event of a vacancy occurring. By and large I believe and hope that the people of Australia will accept this referendum proposal because it gives effect to the democratically cast vote of an elector. I do not believe that we as a parliament should permit a situation to continue whereby electors' wishes are twisted and thwarted. If that situation were to continue we would be on the way to destroying democracy. 
Lastly I come to the matter of simultaneous elections. No doubt this is a matter which will engage the careful thought of all who are concerned about the continuation of the federal system and of the position of the Constitution in contemporary 1977. I have never felt embarrassed or ashamed in any way to be called in the past, and indeed to be called now, a States' lighter. I am a States' lighter and I am proud of it. I am also a federalist. After very careful consideration I believe that on balance the proposal for simultaneous elections should be supported and should be brought into effect. When one considers that from 1963 to 1972 the people of Australia were inundated with no fewer than 7 separate national elections one asks oneself what this does for the stability of government. I suggest that one must arrive at the conclusion that it is totally wrong to perpetuate a system in which the people of Australia are inflicted with and, to add insult to injury, have to pay the cost of at least 2 elections every 3 years. For why? Is there any merit in senators being elected in May and members of the House of Representatives elected in December? Do we make fish of one and fowl of another; frogs of one and tadpoles of another? Why should the senators not face the music at the same time as the members of the House of Representatives and why should the people of Australia not make a decision which will have the effect of putting into the Parliament contemporary representatives- I emphasise the word 'contemporary'- elected on precisely the same mandate on precisely the same day? 
I believe the amendment contemporises the Constitution. I believe it has the support of the majority of Australians. I believe it will lead to stability of government. In the present economic climate I add the final comment that it will save us a lot of money. With the increasing costs of administrative services one can only contemplate how much half Senate elections will cost in 5 years. We could be talking in terms of $5m, $6m or $7m. As I said, for why? This proposal only narrowly failed in 1974. 1 am now going to say probably the only nasty thing I have said in this speech. I believe genuinely that the reason this proposal failed was that the people did not trust the then Government as it presented a package of constitutional referendum proposals. I firmly believe that one of the major reasons this proposal was knocked back in 1974 was that the people did not trust the Whitlam Government and were not prepared to give it one inch on any constitutional referendum proposal. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  paid this Government an enormous compliment when he said that as a prerequisite to constitutional amendment there had to be a Liberal-National Country Party Government in office. I think the reason is very simple: We do have a good reputation, we can be trusted, we will not abuse the constitutional process. 
Simultaneous elections were recommended by a constitutional joint party committee back in 1958 and 1959. 1 suggest that the referendum in 1974 failed for political and not constitutional reasons. It had the support of a large number of delegates from both sides of the chamber- State and Federal; Liberal and Labor- at the Australian Constitutional Convention in Hobart last year. I urge support for the Attorney-General's request that the people weigh up this matter and pass this referendum proposal because I believe it will lead to better government in this country, a modern constitution, stability of government and a considerable saving of cost. I support the proposal and commend the Attorney-General for his initiative in bringing it to Parliament. 
I desire to make a plea for the re-introduction of the Hobart suburban rail passenger service which was withdrawn from operation in the financial year 1974-75. This is a matter to which I would have hoped the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  would have directed some attention in his mystical shadow portfolio of Transport. If he had paid attention he would have appreciated that the City of Hobart has been deprived of a suburban rail service for a period of 3 years now. A matter of considerable concern arises as a result of the Joy report recently commissioned by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and presented to this House on 12 November 1976. It has now become quite obvious that, prior to 1974-75, the Tasmanian Labor Government had decided that it would destroy the Hobart suburban rail service. Aided and abetted by the Transport Commission of Tasmania at the time of the hearing of the Royal Commission into Transport in Southern Tasmania, the Government made no effort to preserve this most necessary service which in the year 1973-74 carried no fewer than 514 000 passengers. Over half a million passengers were carried on a service which had become very run down, which the Government had neglected and which the Government was hoping would disappear. 
At the Royal Commission before  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Neasey the Tasmanian Government and the Transport Commission contended that it was costing an average of $1.63 to carry every passenger on each trip and that the passengers were paying an average of 13c a trip. It may be a matter of hilarity to the honourable member for Shortland but it is a matter which I regard as being of considerable seriousness. It has only recently come to light that there was a conspiracy between the Whitlam Government and the Neilson Government to sell out the Hobart suburban rail service. This information has come to light and it is documented in the Joy report prepared by a committee comprising  Dr Stewart  Joy,  Mr S.  K. Hicks and  Mr K.  W. Kershaw. With the consent of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  I will seek to incorporate in  Hansard  the passage on page 51 of the report in paragraph 5.1 1. The point I raise is one of considerable importance. To the amazement of Tasmanians, in the Joy report the following comments are made: 
There is no foreseeable likelihood of the Hobart suburban passenger service being re-opened. 
I dispute that strongly. A little further down it says: 
Re-opening of the services would involve enormous unwarranted expenditures, - 
I challenge that- . . . unwarranted by any benefits thus derived by rail users or the community generally. 
I challenge that. Then we have this revelation: 
As we understand that any subsidy for a re-opened suburban service would have to be met by either the State Government or Municipal authorities (under paragraph 7 of the Transfer Agreement), it seems highly unlikely that this will ever be pursued. 
This treacherous conspiracy between the Whitiam Government and the Neilson Government has now been unmasked. The situation is that the Hobart suburban rail service was sold down the river whilst in South Australia- the South Australians will confirm this- by special permission of  Mr Whitiam  the Dunstan Government was permitted to continue the Adelaide metropolitan suburban rail services. The question that I now bring to the attention of this Parliament for the first time is: What motivated the Whitiam Government to give a favour to the South Australian Government to continue suburban rail services but to insist on the signing of the death warrant of the Hobart suburban rail service? I am pleased to say that on this matter I am supported by the Australian Railways Union and the Australian Federated Union of Locomotive Enginemen. Quite a few trade unionists in 
Tasmania will want answers from the honourable member for Shortland as the shadow Minister for Transport and from those who were in the Whitiam Government as to why they sold out the Hobart suburban rail service. It is the most despicable conspiracy that has ever been uncovered. It has led to the closure of a rail service which was providing a good service to the workers of Hobart, the very people whom the Australian Labor Party claims to represent. The Labor Government got together with the Neilson Government and conspired to close it down. They conspired to put evidence before the Royal Commission which was false and misleading. I think that this matter deserves a royal commission into the actions of the Whitiam Government. I and other Tasmanians will work to the utmost to have this rail service restored. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member poses a problem. I call the honourable member for Ballaarat. 
The debate having concluded, the House stands adjourned until 2. 1 5 p.m. tomorrow. 
House adjourned at 11.1 p.m. 
I would like to commence my remarks by congratulating the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  on an extremely fair and a very good speech. I must concede that I do not agree with all of the specifics of his speech, but I completely concur with the sentiments he expressed. Not the least of the kind remarks he made was the comment that Tasmania is a truly democratic State. I take some pleasure in hearing that, because it does happen to be the truth. It is in the spirit, not only of being a Liberal but also as one who believes in the democratic process, that I congratulate the Government on the introduction of these electoral measures. They are, in my submission, good legislation, fair legislation and, above all, democratic legislation. I would not wish it to be thought by the public at large that these Bills come into the Parliament today only because of decisions taken by the High Court in McKinlay's case and in McKellar's case. Granted, it could be said that those decisions, particularly the latter, have perhaps prompted or speeded up the legislative process. But I hope that men of goodwill on both sides of this House will have come to the conclusion that the sorts of amendment proposals which are now before the chamber are fair and appropriate in the democratic parliamentary system that we have in this country in 1977. 
It seems, with respect, that the question of electoral redistribution has always been, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Robertson, a matter of political controversy. Like the honourable member, I find it very sad that far too often the public believes that we fiddle with electoral boundaries for the purpose of electoral advantage. The sooner we can get electoral redistribution away from the political scene and out of the hands of politicians so that the public will see that it is not being done for the purpose of gerrymandering or arranging electoral advantage, but that it is for the purpose of achieving fair and democratic representation for all Australians, the sooner the standing of this Parliament will be greatly enhanced in the eyes of the community. In the past the procedures for redistribution of the House of Representatives boundaries have provided that, on the basis of the 5-yearly census population figures, The Chief Australian Electoral Officer determined, according to a set formula, the representation entitlements of each State. 
In the 2 High Court decisions to which I have referred, and after consideration of section 24 of the Constitution, the Court expressed the view that the words 'whenever necessary' which appear in section 24 mean that the number of members to be chosen in the several States must be determined in time for each ordinary general election and that such election must be held in accordance with the entitlements so determined. 
However, the Court recognised that that mandatory principle would not apply in the case of elections other than ordinary general elections. 
What basically then does this legislation do? In my respectful submission, it contemporises population movements in Australia with the electorate and with the democratic process. It is proper that the determining of electoral redistribution should be done in time for the next ordinary general election. The effect of the High Court's decision embodied in this legislation is that in the twelth month of every Parliament- I put it in simple terms because I believe that if it is [nit in simple terms it is more likely that the pubic will accept this as a genuine measure or series of measures rather than as a politican exercisethe Chief Australian Electoral Officer, on the basis of the latest available population statistics, which he has to obtain from the Australian Statistician, will make a determination as to the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen for each State and forward that determination to the Minister. If that determination discloses that there should be an alteration to the number of members of the House of Representatives for any State, then the required redistribution will be proceeded with and on that redistribution the electors will cast their votes to choose those members who will form the Government in the next Parliament. 
I want to say from the outset that anybody who has studied the Bills or the Constitution will readily appreciate that it is unlikely for a very long period of time that these provisions will have any direct effect on the State of Tasmania. I must, in fairness, concede that nobody in this Parliament has attacked the position of Tasmania. But there were whispers in the corridors of a conspiracy to suggest that Tasmanian representation should be reduced. But I draw attention to the fact that the founding fathers, in their wisdom, ensured that Tasmania which is, as the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  mentioned, an original State, would have 5 seats in the House of Representatives. Please God, nobody will ever be stupid enough to suggest that that representation should be reduced, let alone attempt to reduce it. Tasmania has enough problems of gravity without our adding to them by reducing the number of representatives it has in this Parliament- a mere 5 representatives out of the enormity of those who come from the major States of New South Wales and Victoria. Consequently, it is going to be many years before we will fit into the category of being subject to these legislative proposals. 
Lest people who are listening to the broadcast of this debate believe that Tasmania is receiving some extremely unjust or unfair advantage, I refer briefly to the 10 per cent variant and to the situation as it at present pertains. I think the former Attorney-General, now  Mr Justice  Murphy, spoke very frankly on the 10 per cent variation when, in the Senate on 10 April 1973, he said: 
Exact equality in the number of electors per division cannot be achieved, nor is it desirable. Some degree of variation from the quota or average must be allowed. 
I emphasise the following words because I believe they are true: 
At the same time, equality of political rights is inherent in a truly democratic State . . . 
Equality of political rights may mean that strictly and mathematically there is a variation which will upset the purists, that the Parliament will be better and stronger because representation is given to those areas and, indeed, to those States which are entitled to a base representation which should not, under any formula, be subject to reduction. Let us compare the remarks of the former Attorney-General, the then  Senator Murphy,  later  Mr Justice  Murphy, with the reported comments attributed to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I hope he made these comments in jest. Nevertheless, for the record, he made the following statement in Sydney: 
By derivation civilised men are those who live in cities; pagans are those who live in the country. 
I have the honour to represent a metropolitan electorate. I previously had the honour to represent a country electorate. I believe that anybody who is representing a country electorate in any Parliament, State or Commonwealth, would resent the proposition that those who put them into office were pagans, let alone uncivilised. 
I come to a point which I believe, as a democrat, is a matter of considerable principle. I say, on the one hand, how delighted I am that the 10 per cent variant has been retained. I believe that despite the undoubted problems which may befall some sections of the political community in this country, whom in passing I commend for their capacity to conciliate and to compromise on a very difficult electoral matter, I do not believe that we as Australians could have held our heads high in a situation in which we had 115 or 118 electorates with a 10 per cent variant and 7 or 8 electorates with a 20 per cent variant. I want to make it quite clear that I believe that this debate has been much better because it has not been a political debate. I do not wish it to be thought that I am throwing stones or casting aspersions in any directions. I commend certain political sections for being fair and for being prepared to compromise on this basis. 
I think the honourable member for Wakefield is correct- those persons adopted a statesmanlike approach. I think that in fairness one should record that it was the previous Government which brought to this nation the 10 per cent variant. It is one of the few good things which it did with respect to electoral reform. Some people in the electorate, for a multitude of reasons, would condemn anything the Whitlam Government did on electoral reform or anything else. I believe that the Whitlam Government took proper and reasonable action in this respect. I am glad that the 10 percent variant has now been written into our electoral system and will become a permanent feature of it. 
I want to put on record the situation which applies in relation to quotas so that people who may not know the situation as it applies to Tasmania will not run away with the idea that we are one section of Australia which is receiving special favoured treatment which makes a mockery of democracy. I draw to the attention of this chamber that the Tasmania quota, as it stood at December 1976, was 52 103 persons per electorate. That is only 7000 persons fewer than the quota for the 2 House of Representatives seats in the Australian Capital Territory. It is 12 000 persons more than the quota for the one seat in this House for the Northern Territory. Using a rough rule of thumb, I do not believe that that variation from the quota is so bad that people could say that Tasmania received such fair or preferential treatment that it distorts the democratic process. 
I am particularly proud of the fact that in Tasmania at present- indeed this has been the case for some time- our electorates are all below the 10 per cent variant. So even if we were in a situation population-wise that would qualify us for the provisions of this legislation the 10 per cent or 20 per cent variant would have no effect whatsoever. Indeed, looking at the official figures for 1974-75 with respect to this very House, of the 126 seats, as at 1974-75, 121 of the divisions were inside the 10 per cent variant margin. Two seats were between a 10 per cent and a 15 per cent variation and one seat was between a 15 per cent and a 20 per cent variation. That was prior to the amendment to a 10 per cent variant by the Whitlam Government. In Tasmania in 1 948 all 5 seats were inside the 10 per cent margin. In 1955 the electoral redistribution had the effect of putting two of those 5 seats between the 10 per cent and 15 percent bracket. The 1962 redistribution proposals lapsed. The 1968 proposals, which were effected, had all 5 Tasmanian seats below the 10 per cent variant. Under 1975 proposals, which were rejected, we would still have retained all the Tasmanian seats within the 10 per cent variant. 
The mean deviation from the quota in metropolitan and non-metropolitan divisions as proposed by the distribution commissioners in 1955, 1962, 1968, and 1974-75 is made very easy to understand by a table which, in fact, was presented in the Senate and incorporated in the  Hansard  for that House on Wednesday 23 February 1977 at page 319.I seek your ruling,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as to whether it is possible for that table to appear in our  Hansard.  I regret I have not had an opportunity to obtain leave, but as it does appear in the  Hansard  for the Senate - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! Is the honourable member seeking leave to incorporate the table in  Hansard? 
I do seek leave to incorporate the table in  Hansard  because I believe it puts the position very clearly. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="103131197702245_63_0.jpg"></graphic>

I am obliged,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Might I just say to the leader of the House for the Opposition that the table was only handed to me a few minutes ago. I regret I did not have the opportunity to show it to him. 
I see. It just shows our minds are operating along the same track. I deal specifically with the section of the table dealing with the metropolitan seats in Tasmania. As at 1974-75 the variant was 0.95 per cent in 2 seats, which is less than a one per cent variant. In the non-metropolitan 3 seats, the variant was minus 0.64 per cent- less than one per cent. I do not intend to speculate in my remarks as to the possible redistribution that may or may not occur in Tasmania. I simply say that the Tasmania electorate is a somewhat skinny animal and there is not going to be much opportunity to vary the boundaries anyway. I should not think that there would be any great political advantage for any political party in any minor variation to the Tasmanian boundaries. It may well be that the distribution commissioners in their wisdom will take the view that the boundaries should remain as they are. I do not intend to proffer any comment or advice. Quite frankly I do not believe it is the role of a member of Parliament to speculate publicly or to urge a particular course with respect to the boundaries of his own electorate. I have the honour to be the member for Denison for the time being. I will face the electors of Denison at the next election on whatever boundaries are fixed. As a democrat I will accept their decision. 
-Of course I have no choice. I want the honourable member for Sydney to know that I welcome the democratic process. I say to the honourable member for Sydney that I am not frightened of the democratic process and I will not directly involve myself in what boundaries are applicable when the House of Representatives next goes to the people. 
Some extraordinary comments were made in another place. The Standing Orders do not permit me to debate what went on in the other place. Those who would like to see how a debate can get completely and absolutely interrupted by political considerations ought to look at some of the speeches made by senators which appear in yesterday's Senate  Hansard.  Fortunately the debate in this place has been kept above politics. I believe this has produced a better debate. 
The only other matter to which I want to refer is proposed new sub-sections (2) and (3) of section 19 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. They deal with guidelines to be laid down on the question of distribution. The matter which is undoubtedly exercising the minds of honourable members opposite for some reason I do not understand, is the provision relating to electorates which are in excess of 5000 square kilometres. I believe that the honourable member for Wimmera put the case very fairly and very well in his remarks earlier today. I am absolutely staggered that the Opposition is prepared to contend that in some way this provision is unjust or even undemocratic. This seems to me to be a total failure on the part of the Opposition to recognise the problems which confront those who represent rural electorates. When one thinks of it, 500 square kilometres is not really a very large area but it is big enough to involve perhaps one and a half times the activity that is required of a member in a metropolitan seat. I am not saying that country members work one and a half times harder than city members but I point out that they have a higher proportion of dead timenamely, travelling, waiting, making arrangement for transportation etc.- that metropolitan members as a rule do not have to suffer. All this proposal provides, and I believe fairly, is that no situation will occur whereby a member representing an electorate which is in excess of 5000 square kilometres shall have more electors than the smallest electorate below 5000 square kilometres. It is bad enough in some cases for a member to have a large electorate- an electorate which is so immense in size that he is preoccupied with travelling and distance- without inflicting upon that member the burden of having larger numbers of electors to look after than his city counterparts. 
I believe the provision is fair. I cannot for the life of me understand the objection of the Opposition to it particularly in view of the fact that the Opposition from time to time in recent years has represented rural electorates. The honourable member for Wimmera made the point that Labor Party members have not represented enough rural electorates for so long a period of time that they have forgotten the problems that face rural electorates. In Tasmania the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  has one of the most difficult electorates to handle. The honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  has an electorate which extends right down the west coast of Tasmania and takes in King Island. The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  has to travel long distances. The new provision will affect two of those electorates. It is a fair proposition. I commend the Government for it. Overall the 3 Bills are fair, just and, above all, democratic. I believe that they deserve the support of all honourable members in this chamber. 

 Mr KING (Wimmera)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-What an historic oration we have just heard from the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  who was known in his ministerial days as 'pushup Johnson'. It was during the period when he was Minister for Housing that interest rates for private housing in this country leapt from  6Vi  per cent to 10½ per cent. He is also known as 'cut Johnson' because it was during this period that he cut by 19 per cent the Federal Government's contribution to welfare housing in Australia. He has the hide, the temerity and the audacity to criticise the most imaginative Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development ever to come from Tasmania. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  needs no defence at all. I throw back to the honourable member for Hughes, who is now leaving the chamber in shame and disgrace, the words that he hurled across the chamber. It was 16 February last year which became immortalised as lamingtons and sour grapes day. The spirit of that day has continued to 1977. We have seen a most extraordinary performance by members of the Opposition and in particular by  Her  Majesty's Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in the 2 days that this Parliament has been alive. 
The first thing I wish to mention is the disgraceful pantomime, the charade, the petty and vindictive performance ofthe Leader of the Opposition at Fairbairn Airport on Monday last on the occasion of the arrival of  Her  Majesty the Queen. This man is so absolutely obsessed and unable to control himself that he could not resist the temptation to deliberately snub  Her  Majesty's Governor-General in the presence of  Her  Majesty. It is bad enough that he took the opportunity and showed poor taste and lack of judgment to snub the Governor-General at all. 
The honourable member is quite right. The Leader of the Opposition will never learn. To snub the Governor-General in front of  Her  Majesty was the height of impudence. I believe it was petty, vindictive and unworthy of a man who is a national leader of considerable standing. 
-Of course the GovernorGeneral was appointed by him. The point I make is that if  Her  Majesty's Leader ofthe Opposition is going to continue to perform in such a childish way he will have only himself to blame if honourable members opposite remove him from office. The next matter I wish to raise concerns the luncheon held on the same day which was addressed by an author called Donald Home. Those who have read a book called  Death ofthe Lucky Country  will be aware of the sorts of things  Mr Home  writes and says. At the luncheon at the National Press Club in Canberra he said something concerning  Her  Majesty which I believe was as ludicrous as it was offensive. He had the temerity to describe  Her  Majesty as the symbol of division in Australia. What a lot of poppycock. What a lot of nonsense. What a stupid thing to say. It is offensive and ludicrous for this man, this self appointed prophet who is to lead this country into the next plan, to stand in that place in Canberra and describe  Her  Majesty as the symbol of division in this country. The thousands of Australians who have seen or wil see  Her  Majesty either in person or on television during this tour will know what a stupid statement that was for  Mr Home  to make. I believe it has set back the republican cause in this country by at least a quarter of a century and possibly half a century. If those 2-bob republicans who have suddenly come to light out of the woodwork think they will win the support of the Australian people by having a shot at  Her  Majesty the Queen they have another think coming. They will damage their cause and they will become the greatest laughing stock that this country has seen for many years. It is a pity in one sense because a proper, logical and rational debate on the type of government in this country could be extremely useful. I know that there are people in this Parliament who would wish to put views as to variations of the present system. It does nobody any good to fight a cause by attacking somebody who cannot defend herself. How many times have we seen honourable members opposite using the tactic of attacking those who cannot defend themselves? As I have said,  Mr Home  has put back the republican cause at least a quarter of a century and possible half a century. 
I refer now to the speech by the Leader of the Opposition in this building last night. He is the man who proclaims himself as supporting the conversion of Australia to a republic. One thing which absolutely fascinates me in this debate on republicanism is that I have yet to read in the Press and I have yet to hear a  speaker  point out that before Australia can become a republic referendums wm have to be passed to amend the Constitution. I just want to consider in the light of the history of referendums the likelihood of the people of Australia deciding to pass a referendum which overnight would have the effect of making Australia a republic. What the 
Leader of the Opposition said last night proves to me that he is not really a republican at all. At the end of his speech he made the comment which I believe was very significant He said: 'Long may she reign'. What did he mean? Of course we all agree with his words 'Long may she reign'. But when the Leader of the Opposition said 'Long may she reign' it is obvious to everybody in Australia that he meant 'long may she reign as Queen of Australia'. It was the Leader of the Opposition, when he was Prime Minister, who very properly instituted the necessary legislative proceedings to have the Queen designated as Queen of Australia. So when the Leader of the Opposition said 'Long may she reign', and I add the words 'as Queen of Australia', he was admitting quite frankly that we will not see him advocating that Australia becomes a republic during the reign of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II. 
The honourable member for Robertson as usual corrects me. I believe the Leader of the Opposition has been honest enough to come out of the woodwork and to concede that he is one of those 2-bob republicans. He has predicted that Australia will be a republic before the end of the century. Surely the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  listens to what his Leader says. He may listen; he may not understand. Are members of the Labor Party saying that he is not a republican? If that is so, I am delighted to hear it and I have no doubt that  Her  Majesty and the vast majority of Australians will be delighted to hear it. 
We just saw the honourable member for Hughes give a most incredible and extraordinary exhibition of pandering to the left wing. He just made a speech in which he uttered the classic words that when he saw the Usher of the Black Rod he felt sick in the stomach. He sent up the Queen. He sent up the Parliament He sent up the Usher of the Black Rod. He also sent up himself. He said he felt sick in the stomach. Quite frankly he looks sick in the stomach most of the time. 
-That is right. The question in which I am interested is why, if the honourable member for Hughes felt so sick in the stomach- he looked sick in the stomach- he crawled across Kings Hall to get the pick of the positions to watch  Her  Majesty, the symbol of the monarchy about which he is so critical, opening this Parliament. Quite frankly to what extent will these honourable members opposite go in an attempt to secure cheap points by taking a strip off  Her  Majesty the Queen and by taking a strip off the Usher of the Black Rod? I thought he looked pretty good. I thought he knocked very well. I thought he spoke very politely to you,  Mr Speaker,  and I noticed that you answered him, as usual, politely and you obeyed his request. What was wrong with that? 
He looked extremely nice, as the honourable member for Hotham reminds me. I am not saying that our Serjeant-at-Arms did not also look nice. I do not want it to be felt that the upper House is superior. What is wrong with this? Why does the honourable member for Hughes regard it as such an affront that we should have this pomp and ceremony? 
-Yes, exactly. There are honourable members opposite who appreciate the pomp and ceremony. I have no doubt that the thousands of people around Australia who watched it on television were impressed. Before the House commences the adjournment debate I would like to say something about a significant matter on which I thought the Labor Party would have seized. I refer to the fact that not even  Her  Majesty can in effect intrude into the precincts of the House of Representatives.  Her  Majesty sends a message and she requests us to attend forthwith in the Senate chamber. There is a little constitutional significance in that proposition for honourable members opposite who consider themselves to be such experts. 
They did not go last year; they went this year. 
I think the honourable member is on the ball again. He is a gem. The proceedings were being televised this year. I think they were televised last year. In any event, members of the Labor Party would not go when the Governor-General was there. They went when the Queen was there. They were there in large numbers last night I think they behaved extremely well. If they are prepared to indulge in the festivities surrounding the opening of Parliament, it ill behoves them next day to say that they felt sick yesterday, when the truth is that they and some of us feel sick in the stomach today. 
-I hope the honourable member for Corio is not complaining. I am told that what we had last night was nothing compared with the whoopee party in 1974. Last night cost 40 per cent less. I feel that what was put on last night was appropriate for the visit to this Parliament of the Queen of Australia. It seems to me a Utile bit rough that people who enjoyed themselves yesterday whinge today and make out that they do not really believe m the Queen and that they are republicans at heart.  Mr Speaker,  I do not know whether the appropriate course is for me to continue. I thought the Standing Orders said something about 10.30 p.m. 
-I am obliged to the honourable member for the invitation. I will sit down if I am given leave to continue my remarks. 
-I seek the indulgence ofthe Chair. Am I entitled to seek leave to continue my remarks? 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
I ask for leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-My question is to the Attorney-General I see that he is not here. I will have to put my question on notice. 
-Having last night dealt with the petty and vindictive pan.tomine of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  earlier this week in snubbing  Sir John  Kerr at Fairbairn Airport in front of  Her  Majesty the Queen, the ludicrous and offensive remarks of  Mr Donald  Home in describing  Her  Majesty as a symbol of division in Australia, and what I have described as the rise of 2 bob republicanism as opposed to calm and rational debate, in the remaining moments available to me I wish now to mention 4 matters, all of which concern me considerably. Three of them are related to international matters and one is related to the domestic policies of the Government. 
I believe that each and every Australian who has applied his mind to recent publicity of allegations of atrocities having occurred in East Timor must support the call for a full and impartial international inquiry into those allegations of atrocities, whether allegedly committed by Indonesian forces with or without the approval of the Indonesian Government or whether committed by any other group in East Timor. In particular I raise again, as I have done on a previous occasion, the unresolved situation with respect to the deaths of 5 Australian nationals, the 5 journalists, who I have no doubt in my mind were in fact murdered in Dili in circumstances which must and should be fully investigated. I have set out my views in some detail in an article which the  Australian  newspaper invited me to write and which was published recently. I have the consent of the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  for this document to be incorporated in  Hansard.  I now seek leave to have the document so incorporated. 
I also take this opportunity to congratulate the parliamentary group of Amnesty International, and the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  in particular who is  chairman  of that group, on the preparation of a petition which was circulated to a number of members of this Parliament and which in fact was signed by more than 95 members of the Parliament. It is a petition to the  President  of the United States of America which refers,  inter alia,  to his recent statement with respect to his defence of prisoners of conscience in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, his comments in relation to the recent tragic events in Uganda, and in particular his remarks with respect to the situation in East Timor, which is our nearest neighbour. As I said on a previous occasion- I repeat it nowthey are matters which are of sufficient importance in my opinion that the national conscience of Australia is at stake if we do not act properly and responsibly. The eyes of the world are indeed upon us and are looking for a lead from us. Having again obtained the consent of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the terms of the petition prepared by the parliamentary group of Amnesty International and signed by members of all major parties of both Houses. I am informed that the petition was presented at 3 p.m. today by the honourable member for Parramatta, accompanied by  Senator Coleman  and  Senator Missen,  to  Mr LeRoy  F. Percival, Charge d 'Affaires of the Embassy of the United States of America here in Canberra. I seek leave to have that petition incorporated in  Hansard. 
I thank the House for its indulgence. The next matter I desire to raise is in regard to Uganda. Earlier today we had unanimously passed by this House a resolution to recognise throughout the world Commonwealth Day. In fact, it will be recognised in all Commonwealth countries next Monday. Quite frankly, I do not believe that at the present moment Uganda is worthy to be a member of the British Commonwealth of Nations, nor should its demented leader,  President  Idi Amin, be permitted to attend the conference of the heads of government of the British Commonwealth of Nations due to be held in London later this year. I feel that there is a very strong case for Uganda to be suspended from the British Commonwealth of Nations because I find it impossible to reconcile in my mind that we, in passing the motion we did earlier, intended to convey to the world that Uganda had the same common heritage that we have, that it represents an institution through which the Commonwealth is a unique forum of discussion and exchange of ideas. I do not believe that any Australian could approve of this man Amin, a mass murderer, the butcher of Uganda, a pathological killer of Eichmann proportions, who has inflicted upon the people of Uganda a reign of terror, murder, kidnapping, thuggery and religious persecution unprecedented in the world since World War II. 
Uganda is a country in which more than one third of the population are Christians who have just seen their Archbishop slaughtered. Now the troops of Amin are going around the country and persecuting and wiping out Christians. I believe there is a dreadful stench over Uganda today. There will be a dreadful stench over the British Commonwealth if this madman, this maniac, is permitted to attend the conference in London. I appreciate that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  cannot at the moment indicate publicly what are the views of this Government. He will convey them in the appropriate manner to the Envoy of the British Prime Minister. But I as a member of this House want to say that I hope that the Government will make it quite clear that it cannot and will not tolerate the presence of Amin or the representation of Uganda at that conference. 
The third matter I wish to raise relates to the Palestine Liberation Organisation. I must say that as an Australian I find it a matter of profound regret that representatives of that organisation- international terrorists, kidnappers, thugs and gangsters- are coming to Canberra in April of this year as duly accredited representatives of the International Parliamentary Union- at a time when the International Parliamentary Union refuses to permit Amnesty International even to have observer status. I do not believe that the PLO should be permitted to come here. If its representatives do come, then for heaven 's sake confine them to Canberra. 
In relation to the economy, I adopt completely the brilliant speech of the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  in moving the Address-in-Reply. He summed up everything that I wanted to say with respect to unemployment and inflation. But I do want to draw attention to the fact that as of May this year, by virtue of our Government's policy of full indexation ofensions, the standard rate of pension will rise to 47.10 and the married rate of pension will rise to $78.50. Again with the approval of the honourable member for Corio, I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table indicating what the Government has done by means of its policy of full indexation of pensions for the betterment of the people of Australia. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Has the Government now made a firm decision on the site of the Antarctic base to be transferred to Hobart? 
-May I commence my remarks in this debate by complimenting the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  on the outstanding foreign policy statement which he put down in this House yesterday afternoon. I believe the Minister enriches his stature in the world by the sort of statement which he brought before the Australian Parliament yesterday and by the vision he is bringing to the office. I reject completely the suggestion made by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  prior to the suspension of the sitting that the Foreign Minister had told us where we had been and not where we were going. I would have thought that the Minister's statement, taking as it did some 24 pages of detailed information, not only traced the background of the foreign affairs policies which have been evolved by this Government but gave the clearest possible indication to the people of Australia, indeed to the people of the world, of where Australia stands in respect of foreign affairs. I believe the Minister is to be complimented. This is the second time within a period of 3 weeks that I have had occasion publicly to compliment the Minister on the job he is doing. I believe he is without doubt one of the most outstanding Ministers of the present Government. Notwithstanding his comparative youth in the world scene I believe his views are achieving and receiving a recognition throughout the world somewhat equivalent to that accorded the views expressed by  Mr Anthony  Eden, as he then was, when he was Foreign Secretary of the United Kingdom in the pre-war days. I believe we are fortunate to have a Minister of the capacity, ability, drive and integrity of Andrew Peacock. 
May I say in dealing with his remarks that I do not agree with everything that is said. The whole purpose of this debate is to give back benchers on both sides of the chamber an opportunity to express their opinions on Australia's foreign policy. It is an unfortunate reflection on a debate of this nature that as I speak there are so few in the chamber. Perhaps this is because others have already spoken and others are still to come. I would have thought that foreign affairs was a matter of paramount importance to all Australians and to all people concerned with the future of the world and the goal which I believe can be achieved, and hopefully will be achieved, of a working arrangement which will ensure that we go into the twenty-first century without a major conflict such as those conflicts which have blighted this world for the first 77 years of this century. 
The Minister, in his very detailed statement, referred to specific countries and specific areas. I will adopt the same order that the Minister adopted. I would like to make my comments with respect to the countries and the regions to which he referred in the order in which he chose to put them before the Parliament. I have no quarrel with anything he said about our relations with Japan. The only comment I desire to make about Japan is that I believe that he, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Government have come to a far more stable and rational working basis with Japan than the previous Administration did. I hope that the nightmare period of the previous Administration, the complete and absolute disarray in respect of foreign policy, particularly dealing with minerals and trade, are well and truly behind us and that the Japanese can look forward to a working relationship with this country in accordance with the basic principles laid down in the friendship treaty entered into between Australia and Japan last year. 
With respect to the United States, I adopt completely these remarks of the Minister: 
The first thing to be said about them -  he was referring to our relations to the United States-  is that the uncertainty about the future course of Australian policy, the doubts, reservations and acrimony which were so much a feature of the previous Government's dealings with the United States, have been removed. 
I recall quite vividly the extraordinary Press reports of statements by quite senior Ministers of the previous Administration attacking not only the United States as a nation but personally denigrating a number of persons holding a high office in the United States. It is one thing to disagree with the policies of another country; it is a completely different matter to attack personally those who are in executive office in that country. I believe that the actions of certain Labor Ministers in the previous Administration were nothing less than reprehensible. I am delighted that at least this Government has recognised that one deals on a government to government basis, one does not engage in personal mud slinging and character assassination such as we observed under the previous Administration. The Minister emphasised: 
We pursue Australia's interests, express our disagreement with American policy where it exists, but the fundamental importance attached to the alliance and the general relationship are no longer in question. 
The Minister made some comments about the new  President  of the United States. Might I say that as an Australian I was delighted at the election of  President  Carter and that in some small way we may have rendered some assistance to his election in that we were honoured to have in this country a few months ago a most distinguished American,  Mr John  Ryan, who was the overseas campaign director for  President  Carter. Before anybody jumps in and asks what Australians were doing becoming involved in the internal affairs of another country, let me say that I as an Australian, see nothing wrong in playing a pan, even if it is a small part, in one of the great exercises of democracy in the world- namely, the United States presidential election. 
I believe  President  Carter has brought a new hope to the world. He has brought a new dynamism to American foreign policy. He has brought to America a new strength of leadership which I believe it sadly needed. I wish to make only one comment on  President  Carter's early remarks on the question of foreign affairs. I completely and absolutely agree with his statements on the question of civil liberties, particularly for those who unfortunately live behind the Iron Curtain. I completely and absolutely agree with his condemnation of the behaviour of certain administrations, in particular Uganda. I wish him well in his desire to have the Indian Ocean a zone of peace. I point out that we in Australia, who are perhaps most proximate to the Indian Ocean, appreciate that it is easier to say than effectively to ensure that the Indian Ocean is a zone of peace. The Government's policy is that it should be a balanced zone and that it should be balanced at the lowest possible level. 
I refer to a letter to the editor of the  Sydney Morning Herald,  published yesterday, from Professor A. L. Burns, which referred to the number of littoral states of the Indian Ocean. If honourable members listen to this list of countries they will appreciate that it is very hard to say simply that we will put a blanket on the whole of the Indian Ocean and have it declared a peace zone. The littoral states of the Indian Ocean are Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Burma, Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, Iran, the Gulf States, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Somalia, Kenya, Mozambique, the Malagasy Republic, South Africa and Australia. There is a very wide divergence of countries in Asia and in Africa. They have widely differing political opinions and beliefs. Whilst, in the optimum, a free zone in the Indian Ocean should be sought and worked for, I have the gravest doubts that this is feasible in the light of the extraordinary and substantial Russian build-up in that area. I would be failing in my duty as a member of this House if I did not say that whilst I support philosophically the proposition of a free Indian Ocean this can be achieved only if there is a substantial reduction of the Russian presence in that area. 
The next area to which the Minister referred was our relations with Western Europe. I applaud the Minister and the Government for saying that Australia must have closer relations with Western Europe because whilst we are geographically part of Asia our ties and heritage to a large extent derive from Western Europe. We are recognised in Western Europe as a power of some considerable significance in this area and it is appropriate that we have a proper basis of dialogue with Western Europe. I would like to see Australia use its influence with respect to Western Europe to ensure that those groups which are unfortunate enough to be behind the Iron Curtain are not deserted by the West as they were in 1956, as they were in Poland in 1965 and as they were in Czechoslovakia in 1969 when they struggled for freedom. The basic minimal human rights laid down in the Helsinki Pact of 1975 are already being dishonoured in Czechoslovakia. I hope that Australia is prepared to express a view, and to express a strong view if necessary, at Belgrade this year at the conference to consider the application of the Helsinki Pact, that we as a country believe it is about time that those countries behind the Iron Curtain which deny basic civil rights to their citizens should think again and should at least acknowledge that they have a responsibility to ensure that those who live within their boundaries have the same basic freedoms and rights as we enjoy in Australia. 
I applaud this Government for establishing a real and workable basis for relations with the People's Republic of China. The Government's action in this regard was not a sham pantomime operation such as we saw under the previous Administration. We now have as a direct result of the highly successful visit of the Prime Minister to China a working relationship with the Chinese. Let me say that rightly or wrongly I believe the Chinese are non-aggressive at thus point of time. Provided they remain non-aggressive I believe that Australia and China can have strong friendship bonds. I hope that they will. 
I must confess that I do not feel exactly the same with respect to Russia because I find it impossible to reconcile what Russia is doing with its claims that in fact it wants only peaceful coexistence. I suggest that even a humble back bencher is permitted to put a point of view that if Russia continues to build up its arms, if Russia continues to extend its military influence in the world, there will be people who will believeand they will do so with justification- that Russia in fact intends to pursue one of the basic objectives of Marxism, namely, the domination of the world. I hope that we will not enter a generation in which war will be inevitable between those who wish to live in freedom and those who espouse the Marxist communist cause. I would hope that Russia would respond to  President  Carter's invitation to adopt a more realistic and reasonable line, to demonstrate by practical means that it wants peace. It does not seem right to me- and I am ignorant in these matters- that 
Russia can be talking about peace while multiplying up to 400-fold its defence expenditure and extending its military tentacles throughout the world. If someone wants to say I am a red baiter, he can say it. But frankly I am frightened by the expansion of Russian militarism. 
I have dealt with that. I am quite frankly frightened by the expansion of Russian militarism. I say that at the moment, rightly or wrongly, I believe that China wants peaceful co-existence. 
I now wish to refer to regional policies, in particular to the area closest to us. I have expressed my view- and I shall express it again and againthat I believe that Australia as a nation has a moral responsibility not to turn its back on the allegations of atrocities having been committed in East Timor, whether committed by Indonesian troops with or without the approval of the Indonesian Government, or whether committed by others. East Timor is less than 400 miles from Australia. Many thousands of Timorese laid down their lives in World War II alongside Australians. If the Indonesian Government is prepared to invite Congressman Donald Fraser and his committee to come to Indonesia to sift out the facts in respect of the allegation of atrocities, on what possible basis could they deny that same request if it were put forward on behalf of the Australian Parliament? I repeat that this Parliament has a duty to investigate those allegations, to ascertain whether there is truth in them or not. I would have thought that the Indonesian Government had nothing to fear if there were nothing in the allegations. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Bills before the House are designed to carry into effect the Government's promise, already announced, to continue a fruit stabilisation scheme for the 1977 season, not at the rate of $1 a box as recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission but at the rate of $2 a box. For that the Government deserves at least the credit for having rejected the IAC recommendation. Last year 2.4 million boxes of apples were exported to the United Kingdom and Europe. Under this scheme the Government found $3.9m by way of stabilisation payments to Australian apple exporters. In the same period approximately 834 000 boxes of pears were exported to the United Kingdom and Europe, and the cost to the Government by way of stabilisation payments for these exports was $280,000. It is significant to note that in his second reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  made the point that this Government is also in consultation with interested States about a supplementary assistance program for 1977 which could involve, jointly funded with the States, an additional $ lm to assist apple exports. 
It is somewhat unfortunate in the context of this legislation that we have seen the shallow, deceitful and hypocritical attempts by the Opposition in putting forward a fraudulent, bogus and deceitful amendment to make cheap political capital out of the plight of the fruit growers of Australia and in particular those involved in the export industry in Tasmania. Like the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  and indeed other honourable members who have taken part in this debate, I deplore the shabby tactics employed by the Opposition and by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  in particular, in endeavouring to use this debate as a vehicle for cheap political grandstanding at the expense of the fruit growers of Australia. 
It is obvious, of course, why the Opposition has done this. Its policies in respect of the fruit industry have gone up and down like a lavatory seat depending on where it thinks it can pick up a few votes, because it is only 12 months ago that Labor Party spokesmen were in fact recommending that the stabilisation scheme be phased out. This Government was criticised by Labor spokesmen because it had the courage to increase the subsidy payment from $1 to $2 a bushel. Because honourable members opposite heard that Tasmanian members were fighting for- and make no apology for fighting for- an increase to $3 a box by way of stabilisation payment and also an extension of the scheme to include zones other than zones A and B and because they picked up the whisper that once again the Tasmanians were having a go for the fruit industry in contrast with the Opposition's efforts, they thought they would make a little cheap political trick out of it. They brought forward this fraudulent amendment, which I will discuss in a moment, for which nobody in his right mind could vote, because the effect of it is to put at risk the entire stabilisation scheme as it operates at the moment, inadequate though it may be in the opinion of some people, and to sell the fruit growers of Australia a pup. It is the most fraudulent, disreputable and dishonourable amendment ever to come before this chamber, as I will demonstrate. The fraud of it and the dishonest nature of it is obvious to anybody who stops to have a look at it. 
-That is right, as the honourable member for Braddon has reminded me. The Tasmanian members on this side of the 
House have been criticised for taking part in this debate but the honourable member for Wilmot did well to remind the House that when the previous legislation went through this place in 1975, at a time when all 5 Labor members for Tasmania were in Canberra, not one of them took part in the debate; not one of them got up to put a case for the Tasmanian fruit growers. The honourable member for Blaxland, who poses as the great friend of primary industry, who stands in this Parliament and claims to have a vested interest in the welfare of primary industry, is on record as having said last year that he regarded this sort of stabilisation scheme as a form of welfare assistance, a dole for the fruit growers, a hand-out. That was the view he took of them. The honourable member for Wilmot reminded us that the honourable member for Blaxland went on to say that he thought it would be a good thing if the Government, that is, the Fraser Government, put the fruit growers of Tasmania and Western Australia out of their misery- not to string out their misery with an extension of this scheme. The man who last year said to this Government 'Do not string out the scheme because you are only stringing out their misery' has the gall to come into this chamber, the hide to come into this chamber, and say: 'This year let us bump it up to $3'. 
He is not the only member of the Opposition who claims to be a friend of primary industry.  Senator Gietzelt,  the Opposition spokesman on primary industry matters in the Senate, made a magnificent contribution to the welfare of the fruit industry when last year he said that the Opposition would not oppose the legislation- not that it supported it, but that it would not oppose it. He then went on to say that this 'support is not unequivocal, and not without some basis of criticism'. Then he castigated the Fraser Government for not in strict terms acting on the recommendations of the IAC which was that a subsidy of $1 a box be paid. We were criticised by Labor last year because we paid growers $2 a box, yet these people turn up today and pretend that they are interested in growers and say: 'Let us give them $3 this year'. How much will it be next year- $4 or $5? How much longer will the honourable members opposite play politics with the fruit industry? 
With all due respect, honourable members opposite have come into this debate much more recently than some on this side and, in particular, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  I would like to remind them that I happened to be a member of the State Parliament for a period of 8 years representing the electorate of Huon. I was an independent  chairman  at 2 large public meetings at which 2 distinguished Labor spokesmen attended and told the fruit growers what they were going to do for them. One was a man named Grassby. The other was a  Dr Rex  Patterson. I chaired the public meetings and I heard the promises they gave to the fruit industry in 1971 and in 1972. I saw the fruit growers of the Huon go to the polling booths in December 1 972 and vote for the Labor Party because they believed that the Labor Party would do something for them, but within 12 months they were betrayed and every conceivable promise put forward on behalf of the Labor Party in that election campaign was dishonoured. And worse still, the Labor Government then set about escalating wages and increasing costs? Far from helping the industry the Labor Government went very close to killing it between 1972 and 1975. This Government is endeavouring to get the industry back onto its feet. 
My friend the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry),  with whom I do agree on some matters, came into this debate- I say with all due respect- with the naivete of a political fruit fly. I do not really concede that the honourable member meant to make that speech. I think it was supposed to be made by somebody else. I draw attention to the fact that the man who moved the amendment, the honourable member for Blaxland, has not even been present in the chamber for this debate today. It makes one wonder what motivates the Opposition. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)There is no substance in the point of order. 
I draw attention to the fact that whilst the honourable member for Shortland now has a few more of his colleagues in the chamber the Opposition was down to one supporter at one stage of the debate. 
I am sorry to have to contradict you again. You either cannot count or you are shortsighted. You certainly are not, with all due respect, making a very intelligent contribution to the debate. The honourable member for Blaxland moved this amendment last night at 10 o'clock and I make the point that he is not present here today. The honourable member for Shortland paraded himself as somebody interested in the fruit industry and displayed such extraordinary knowledge of the industry in Tasmania that it bears some comment. He talked, for example, about fruit being carried on the Tasmanian Government Railways. I thought he seemed to imply that fruit was being carried on the  Australian Trader  but then he went on to talk a lot of codswallop about fruit growers going on the  Australian Trader.  But one thing he did which he cannot get away with and the one thing for which he will never be forgotten in Tasmania was the most vicious and despicable attack he made on the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck).  There is no more sincere and hard working member of this Parliament than the honourable member for Franklin. He is a committed fighter for his electorate. He is a committed fighter for the fruit industry and he is a committed fighter for Tasmania. I do not believe the honourable member for Shortland improved the case for the Opposition or did anything to enhance the standing of the Labor Party in the eyes of the people who are genuinely concerned for the fruit industry by talking in such disparaging and despicable terms about the honourable member for Franklin. 
I now turn to the amendment moved by the Opposition. I do so to indicate to the fruit growers of Australia what a sham and bogus amendment it is, what a deceitful confidence trick it is and in what a despicable manner the Labor Party has tried to play politics with the problems of the fruit industry. There are people on this side of the House who believe and believe very sincerely that the assistance should have been at the rate of $3 a box and that aid should have gone to growers outside zones A and B. It ill becomes the Opposition to put forward an amendment which could have the effect of totally destroying the stabilisation scheme, which would leave the fruit growers with nothing at all. The trap in it is that after talking in lofty terms about $3 a box for apples and $1.20 a box for pears the Opposition amendment goes on to say: 'and/or (b) '. That means either in addition to or in substitution of. Listen to these words:  . . . (b) provides supplementary assistance . . . 
What sort of supplementary assistance is the Opposition talking about? What amount of assistance? It has not told the fruit growers. It has not told the Parliament. What does the Opposition mean by 'supplementary assistance'? It is an airy-fairy phrase which means nothing. The amendment goes on to read:  . . . measures to facilitate adjustments . . . 
What son of adjustments does the Opposition have in mind? 
As the honourable member for Braddon indicated, and as I indicate, it is nothing at all. Is it perhaps to get rid of the industry completely; to wipe it out? Is this the sort of adjustment the Opposition is thinking about? The amendment goes on to read:  . . . to provide assistance . . . 
But the Opposition supporters do not tell us what sort of assistance.  . . . directly to individual fruit growers ... 
The Opposition did not tell us which growers, where, on what conditions and under what terms. It went on:  . . . until such times . . . 
This is a typical Labor blank cheque. What times is the Opposition talking about? Is it talking about one month's time, three months' time, or 12 months' time, when it has changed its leader or when it has changed its deputy leader? What is it saying? The Opposition speaks about a coherent, planned policy. If its performance in 1972-75 indicates the sort of policy it has in mind for the fruit industry, then woe betide the fruit industry if the Labor Party ever gets back into power in the immediate future. Who is going to prepare this coherent plan, of which the Opposition talks? The whole thing is, I suggest, if one looks at it with good humour, an Alice in Wonderland exercise in political stupidity by the Labor Party. If one looks at it realistically, it is a deceitful, dishonest, and dishonourable confidence trick. That is why every honourable member on this side of the chamber will vote firmly against the amendment. 
The last point I want to make with respect to the industry is that whatever happened in the past, all 5 Tasmanian members of this House have fought and will continue to fight for the Tasmanian fruit industry. We will fight for Tasmanian issues and we will fight for Tasmania. It is all very well for honourable members opposite to sneer and say: 'Come across the chamber and vote with us'. It is all very well for them to challenge us. When the last member of the Labor Party walked across the chamber- I think it was  Mr Benson-  he was expelled. 
-That is right. I have not seen the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  or any other honourable members opposite who happen to be in the chamber at the moment coming across to vote with the Government. The position, shortly, is that by bad tactics and shabby politics the Labor Government ruined any chance that Tasmanians had of getting additional assistance for the fruit industry. The Labor Government ruined that chance and it will be blamed for it because by cheap political grandstanding it destroyed efforts which were being made on behalf of the fruit industry by the Tasmanian back benchers and created a situation in which no honourable member with any honour could vote with the Opposition. For those reasons this amendment deserves to be defeated roundly and the Opposition deserves to be castigated for playing politics with an industry and for bringing down the attempt of Tasmanian members to do something constructive to help the fruit growers of Australia. 
I count it a great honour to be permitted to take part in this most historic debate because I have no doubt at all that the policies which are evolved in 1977 will shape the future of this country right up to the commencement of the 21st century. There could be no more fundamental matter for debate at this point of time than the question of Australia's immigration policies and Australia's population. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  in bringing the Green Paper before this Parliament pointed to the fact that this was the first green paper dealing with Australia's immigration policies and Australia's population ever to be tabled in this 
Parliament. I take the opportunity of congratulating the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs on the initiative and drive that he has shown, aided and supported by the Australian Population and Immigration Council, in preparing this Green Paper and bringing it before this Parliament and the people of Australia for discussion and debate. 
I have said before and I shall say again, that this Government is fortunate to have a Minister of the calibre of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I think there are many in this Parliament on both sides of the House who would concede that this Minister's performance has been one of the most outstanding performances by any Minister in the Fraser Government. I say that for one particular reason: Because I note that there has been some Press speculation, with which I shall deal shortly, claiming that in some way the Minister is unsympathetic and that he has come under backbench criticism within the Government parties. This is not so. As one who has ventured to express some views on Australia's immigration policies may I be heard to say on this occasion that this Minister is one who does give one a hearing and is responsive and sympathetic to the submissions one puts before him. 
It is incredible when one considers that with a population of 13.9 million in one of the richest countries in the world, that this is the very first time that there has been a Green Paper on this matter placed before this Parliament for the Parliament as a whole to debate, giving it an opportunity to consider Australia's future population growth and in particular immigration policies. As the Minister said when he introduced the Green Paper into the Parliament, the previous immigration policy which has operated in this country for nearly 30 years was responsible for bringing to Australia over 3.3 million new settlers who, together with their children born in Australia subsequent to their arrival, have been responsible for about half of Australia's postwar growth from 7.4 million to 13.9 million people. I believe it is not inappropriate at this time to pay a tribute to those new settlers who have come to Australia since 1945 and who have integrated in our Australian society and who in the overwhelming majority of cases have made an outstanding contribution to the community life, progress and development of this nation. 
I think far too often we are inclined to take our new settlers for granted. In many cases we have not given them the credit for their achievements. It is a matter of considerable pride when one sees in Australia men and women who came here straight after World War II with nothing but the clothes in which they arrived and who have now settled into our community and have become some of our leading citizens. I believe therefore that the decision that this Government takes at this time is most critical for the future of this country. If we were to take note of some of the comments which have emanated from the other side of the House we would have no immigration policy at all. There are some who are frankly so petrified at the question of immigration, thinking in some way it is an electoral issue which could put them out of Parliament, that they are not prepared to face up to the realities and the challenge that is before Australia at present. 
I commend the Minister and the members of APIC for coming out and telling the Australian people quite bluntly that we can expect a considerable increase in immigration to Australiamuch larger than many other people would have believed. The honourable speakers who have preceded me have pointed to the fact that increased immigration leading to increased population will lead to increased demand and increased productivity. Far from endangering the jobs of Australians I believe it will make available to Australians more jobs than they would have if there were in fact a negative immigration growth in this country. There are some people in the community who parade themselves as supporting zero population growth. May I be heard to say in this Parliament that I can envisage no more fatal course for Australia to adopt than that of zero population growth. 
-Quite so. My honourable colleague from Riverina supports me in this proposition. It is fashionable to talk in terms of zero population growth. I often feel that it has overtones of 1984 that anybody should presume to tell me or any other Australian how many children I or they are to have. These people who want to promote this fallacy, this dangerous doctrine - 
I see that the honourable member for Melbourne is again endeavouring to curry favour with the zero population growth people by his interjection. I think the zero population growth people are selfish people. They want to keep Australia to themselves and to a few. We are in fact a country in the world. We have no right to deny to others who are capable of coming to this country and making a contribution to it the opportunity of coming here. I draw to the attention of this Parliament that over the past few years there have been drastic changes in Australia's population growth rate. The birth rate in Australia has fallen steeply. We have now virtually reached the point at which the net reproduction rate is unity. I am told that means we are producing a sufficient number of females to replace their mothers when they die. In other words it is just holding the fort. Unless there is an increase in the birth rate we will be approaching a situation where the numbers of births and deaths will be equal and in the absence of an immigration gain Australia will experience zero population growth. Indeed, the experience of several developed nations suggests that Australia could even be facing further falls in its birth rate and a future loss of population in the absence of immigration. 
My remarks will no doubt raise the ire of some opposite and some who are listening to this debate, but I regard it as a matter of tragedy that, quite apart from those whom we are inviting to come to Australia as migrants one in three or one in five, depending on what statistics one takes into account, of Australian pregnancies are terminated. The slaughter of 50 000 to 80 000 unborn Australians  per annum,  increasing as it is, is a matter of profound regret to me personally and a matter which will undoubtedly play a very important role in the birth rate and the birth rate trends of this country in the years to come. I believe that if we carry this thing to its illogical, twisted and distorted extreme we will abort Australia's future. I appeal to those who find it popular to canvass and to encourage the proposition of abortion on demand to think again what they are doing to this country and what they are doing to future generations of Australians. Like the Minister I draw to the attention of the House that unless we have a proper immigration policy not only will we have reached the situation of zero population growth but we will find that this country in the 1980s- that is barely 3 to 4 years off- will have a very severe manpower shortage. We will not have sufficient people in Australia to make Australia progress and develop as we would all wish it to. 
I draw to the attention of this House the fact that in 1975 Australia actually sustained a net loss of over 8000 persons on total movements in and out of the country. In the financial year 1975-76, Australia gained fewer than 21000 persons and in the last 10 years we have lost over 39 000 people out of this country. A lot of those were Australians who chose to go elsewhere. But one out of 5 migrants to come to this country have left this country. The majority of them have gone back to their original homelands. Some have gone to start a new life somewhere. Australia cannot afford to lose people of intellect and drive, people who are prepared to work, people who came to this country seeking hope and have left disappointed. I would hate to see a situation develop where that continuing drain from Australia continued and we would lose people who are valuable to the future of this country as we move towards the twenty-first century. 
The Minister has indicated in his statement on the Green Paper that we have 3 alternatives before us. Might I just say in passing that I welcome the indication that we might now be talking in terms of immigration in net terms rather than raw figures. I think the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  deserves some credit for this because he and others- I know that the Minister is aware of this- have been urging for some time that we should be talking in terms of net figures rather than raw figures which are erroneous, inflammatory and cause considerable misunderstanding in the community. A net gain of 50 000 migrants per annum is within Australia's capacity. Whether we take the small scheme, the medium scheme or the large scheme, I believe that here and now we can at least support the medium scheme and we should be looking towards the large scheme. I commend this Minister for bringing this scheme in. I deplore those who try to make political capital out of it and who say: 'You cannot do this because of the unemployment situation at the moment'. Let me with respect take a strip off of the  Australian  newspaper which, in today's editorial, poured cold water on the Green Paper. I deplore this. The editorial, in its concluding sentence, made this comment: 
We need to work out where we are really going before we can invite other people to join us in the venture. 
The point that the Minister makes, the point that the Australian Population and Immigration Council makes- and on APIC were the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  and the Secretary of the ACTU,  Mr Souter-  is that if we do not get these people into Australia we will not be going anywhere. We need these people. It is not a case of saying: 'Do not invite them until we know where we are going'; the point is that if we do not invite them now we will not have them in the 1980s and we will not have them in the 1990s when we will most need them. 
In the remaining time available to me to speak I wish to refer briefly to the question of 
Australia's obligations, moral and practical, with respect to refugees. I refer to an editorial in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 21 March. There is a statement in the editorial- and I do not know to whom it refers-which is completely untrue. In dealing with the questions of Indo-Chinese refugees, it says: 
It is good that two Liberal MPs have pressed the Government to accept more Vietnamese and Cambodian refugees, but disappointing that  Mr MacKellar  sounds so unsympathetic. 
That statement is a lie. Not only has the Minister not been unsympathetic but also he has been most compassionate in all his discussions on this question. He is a Minister who is genuinely concerned about the problem. I make no apology for being one of a number of back benchers who merely sought to provide some additional support to the Minister in tackling this most important and sensitive human area. I say here and now that the  Sydney Morning Herald  has done the Minister a grave disservice by claiming that he was in any way unsympathetic to the situation. 
What is the situation? As at 3 1 January this year there were 77 825 Indo-Chinese refugees. Of that large figure probably 20 000 only would wish to seek homes away from their own native area. At the moment they are in Thailand as temporary refugees. Of that 20 000 probably about 10 000 may seek to come to places like Australia. We had a deplorable record under the Whitlam Government where, notwithstanding knowledge of the impending fall of Saigon and notwithstanding the knowledge that refugees were going to try to get into this country and that we would need to get them out of Vietnam before Saigon fell, the Whitlam Government's proud refugee intake was 76 people. The rest were left in Vietnam to be slaughtered. It is significant to note that at the same time as the Whitlam Government was able to bring 76 people into this country, the United States of America made homes available for 150 000 people. At this very moment, as I said, there are over 77 000 of these refugees in Thai refugee camps. What happened to them on 26 November last year? Twenty-six Cambodian refugees were blindfolded and put across the border into Cambodia where they were shot immediately. The Thai Government did this to test international reaction. 
We cannot ignore, and I know that we have a Minister who will not ignore, the plight of those Indo-Chinese refugees and Australia's moral responsibility for them. Like the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  I deplore the deafening silence of those who were so active during the Vietnam war, those who marched through the streets and who are now silent on the question of Australia's obligations to those refugees. I ask the Minister to look carefully at the problem and I know that he will do so. The establishment of a small, permanent team of immigration officers in Bangkok is one proposal I put forward. I also propose a regular intake of these refugees and an extension of the system of sponsorship of refugees by church organisations and other groups. I congratulate the Minister. 
-Under the terms of the transfer of the Tasmanian Government Railways, the Transport Commission of Tasmania was appointed as agent for the Australian National Railways Commission. Consequently, it has continued to operate the Tasmanian railways as agent for the ANRC. Today, the State  President  of the Australian 
Railways Union in Tasmania,  Mr Jones,  contacted me and advised that the decision had been taken, presumably by the ANRC and put into effect by the Transport Commission in Tasmania, that as from Monday next no full meals will be served on the Tasman Limited which is the major train and, indeed, one of the major tourist attractions in Tasmania. I was further advised by  Mr Jones  who, as I have said, is the State  President  of the Australian Railways Union- it is significant- that leading trade unionists in Tasmania are prepared to talk to and to confide in the Liberal members of the House of Representatives. He told me that as from 1 May all parcels offices in Tasmania are to be amalgamated with goods offices. 
I will deal with the first proposition. I want to submit to the House that it would be a very false economy if full meals were taken off the Tasman Limited. I am told that as from Monday next, passengers will be entitled to eat only sweet biscuits and sandwiches and drink a cup of tea or coffee on the train. In the case of Hobart to Burnie, a trip of 7 hours is involved. I believe that some nasty little bureaucrat has it in his mind that if the food service is taken off the train people will not travel on it. If people do not travel on the train, business will drop off. This would be a good excuse to get rid of the Tasman Limited. I have appealed to the Minister for 
Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to stay the execution of the order that no full meals are to be served on the train as from Monday next to enable union representatives and people interested in the future of the Tasman Limited in Tasmania to engage in full and frank discussion to fully and properly assess the implications of that rather horrific decision. 
With respect to the amalgamation of parcel offices and goods offices, I draw the attention of the House to the fact that in Hobart and Devonport this will cause considerable inconvenience as the goods offices and the parcels offices are considerably separated by distance. In Launceston and Burnie the situation is not so bad. I ask the Minister that these decisions be not implemented until all the implications can be discussed. I have a genuine fear, which is shared by the State  President  of the ARU, that these steps may be designed to make less suitable the operations of the Tasmanian railways, leading to the eventual closure of the Tasman Limited and the eventual cutting out of parcel delivery services. These 2 matters which I have raised tonight may seem petty, but they are important. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House recalls Australian discovery of Macquarie Island on 1 1 July 1810, numerous visits by Australian ships to the Antarctic during the 19th century; the Australian Antarctic expedition of  Sir Ernest  Shackleton in the ship  Nimrod  in 1907; the Australian expedition to the Antarctic lead by  Sir Douglas  Mawson in the ship  Aurora  in 1911 and the explorations carried out by that expedition between 1911 and 1914; the expeditions to the Antarctic lead by  Sir Hubert  Wilkins and  Sir Edgeworth  David; the Australian expedition to the Antarctic again lead by  Sir Douglas  Mawson from 1929 to 1931 and subsequent official Australian expeditions to the Antarctic territory to the present time. 
That this House takes note of the Australian Antarctic Acceptance Bill introduced into the House of Representatives by the then Attorney-General  (Mr Latham)  on 26 May 1933 and subsequently passed by the Parliament; the Australian Antarctic Territory Acceptance Act of 1936; the Heard Island and McDonald Islands Act 19S3; the Australian Antarctic Territory Act 19S4 (as amended in 1963); the Antarctic Treaty signed on 1 December 1959; the Antarctic Treaty Act 1960; the Australian Government's establishment of bases at Macquarie Island, Heard Island, Mawson, Davis and Casey; the Australian National Antarctic Research Expeditions and the Antarctic Division's work with respect to upper atmosphere physics, cosmic ray physics, glaciology, biology, medical science, geography and sub-glacial exploration for minerals and natural resources. 
That this House further takes note of the implications of the Antarctic Treaty freezing existing territorial claims, providing that the Antarctic is to be used for peaceful purposes only (including a total ban on nuclear testing); guaranteed complete freedom of access of scientific expeditions; facilitating international scientific co-operation and preserving Antarctic flora and fauna and the further provision that no new claim or enlargement of any existing claim shall be negotiated whilst the Treaty is in force; and the discussion paper prepared by the previous Administration entitled Towards new perspectives for Australian Scientific Research in Antarctica' (March 1975- Parliamentary Paper No. 34) and the report of the Advisory Committee on Antarctic programs (December 1974). 
That in the opinion of this House, the time is now appropriate for the preparation of a Green Paper on Australia's involvement in the Antarctic, Australia's territorial claims in the Antarctic and the future plans for work to be carried out by Australia in its Antarctic territories and that it is also appropriate for a full scale Parliamentary Debate on Australia and the Antarctic to be held prior to the meeting of a Committee of the Antarctic Treaty Nations in London in September this year. 
It is with some emotion and a feeling of personal pride, which is all too rare in parliamentary life, that I rise to speak briefly in support of the motion. This motion to refer to the Public Works Committee the proposed transfer of the Antarctic Division to Kingston in Tasmania culminates a lot of hard work and I must say gives me great personal satisfaction. The original idea to transfer the Antarctic Base to Tasmania was put forward by the previous honourable member for Denison and was accepted by the Department of Science back in 1973. It was confirmed by a Cabinet decision of the Whitlam Government in early 1974, but regrettably the matter had not even been considered by the Public Works Committee when the Whitlam Government went out of office in December 1975. The delays from 1973 to 1975 were extremely regrettable and whilst the previous Government promised to effect the transfer, it is the Fraser Government which will honour that promise by performance, What Labor promised and failed to deliver, the Fraser Government is now committed to delivering and will deliver. As all the documents required for the reference to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report are now to hand, it would be my hope that the Committee will be able to undertake its deliberations speedily and I would hope that upon a confirmation of the Fraser Government's commitment an appropriation could be made in the August Budget to enable construction to commence in the coming financial year. 
As the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  has said, this reference is related not just to the Antarctic Division but also includes the Hobart Regional Laboratory of the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories. As the Minister has indicated in the motion, it involves the construction of a magnificent complex at Kingston of approximately 8 structures and as indicated by the Minister it will involve a total expenditure of $7.3m. 
I was just about to come to that. I know the site extremely well. It is very interesting that both my predecessor,  Mr John  Coates, and I have worked very hard for this base. The irony is that the new complex is going to be constructed about 600 yards inside the boundary of the electorate of Franklin, that is, on the present boundaries, and that of course gives my colleague the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  much pleasure. I need only say that the plans for the complex are most impressive. A model has been prepared. It has been on public display and it will be on public display in the future. The injection of $7. 3m in capital funds into the Kingston area will have substantial short term benefits for the building industry and for the community of Kingston and the long term employment potential for Tasmanians desiring to work at the Antarctic Division and for the many from mainland States who will be coming to Tasmania and will find our State a most delightful place in which to live. These long term prospects are extremely pleasing. 
I am indebted to  Senator Wright  for a comment which he made in the Senate yesterday and which I commend to the Minister, that is, that this complex may have some very significant tourism potential and it would be an interesting proposition if the Government would consider the establishment of a small museum or display centre for the public to visit when the Antarctic Division complex is completed. 
I would be less than gracious if I did not publicly thank the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for putting up with my persistent representations over the past 16 months; the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  who has been extremely patient in the face of many submissions and public comments by me, some of which may even have indicated some degree of hostility to  Senator Webster;  the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  and his Tasmanian departmental head,  Mr Max  Windsor, for their assistance and co-operation; and last but by no means least the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  and his staff whose attention and enthusiasm for this project have been nothing short of magnificent. To my Tasmanian colleagues, particularly my friend the honourable member for Franklin, for their support and encouragement go my sincere thanks. 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  raised the question of the delay and without in any way pre-empting what the Minister may say, I think the honourable member should know that- if he does not know and if he had checked in Hobart he would have found out- - following the change of Government alternative sites which had not previously become available did at least appear to become available. In fact 4 alternative sites were looked at. The Government acted properly by properly investigating these sites to ensure that the taxpayers' money was not misspent. There were ministerial inspections accompanied by Tasmanian members and senators. It was a matter of considerable importance in view of the present economic situation and the great need not to waste taxpayers' money. The Government has made a proper decision. The best site has been chosen and the best value will be given for the money which is to be expended. 
I hope that the House will unanimously pass this motion and that the deliberations of the Public Works Committee will open the way for the speedy implementation of a commitment to the people of Tasmania made nearly 4 years ago and now about to be honoured to the intense delight of all those associated with it. 
-On 15 March the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  in a wide ranging speech on our relations with the rest of the world extended what could be fairly described as the hand of friendship to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I quote from page 20 1 of  Hansard  on 1 5 March. He said: 
As the Prime Minister and I have previously emphasised, our bilateral relations with the Soviet Union are sound and we wish to make them as extensive and friendly as possible. 
Later in his speech he said this: 
There is therefore little in our bilateral relationship which causes the Australian Government concern. What does concern us and what we have felt obliged to draw to public attention is the extent, and the implications, of the Soviet arms build-up in recent years. 
-This will draw out the communists,  Mr Speaker.  The Minister went on to say that the matter that concerned him was the peace of the world and the threat to the peace of the world by the Soviet arms build-up. He then said: 
We hope, profoundly, that they will respond . . . 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker,  I have nearly finished. I was just laying the foundation for what I want to say. I know this is annoying the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  The Minister went on to say: 
We hope, profoundly, that they will respond to the approach of a new American  President  for a genuine arms control agreement which will lead to a substantial reduction in the accumulation of military power. 
So spoke our Minister and I believe every honourable member in this House supported what the Minister said and the way in which he said it. 
What do we see happen? The  President  of the United States of America sends his Secretary of State,  Mr Cyrus  Vance, to Moscow to talk with  President  Brezhnev about the question of a genuine and worthwhile cutback in the nuclear arms race. We pick up tonight's  Herald  and we see the glaring headline 'No! No! Moscow to U.S.! The article reads: 
American-Soviet talks on curbing the nuclear arms race collapsed in Moscow today. 
Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev flatly rejected proposals put to him by the U.S. Secretary of State, Cyrus Vance. 
I know that the honourable member for Melbourne does not like this. The article continues: 
An angry President Jimmy Carter hurriedly summoned Congressional leaders to the While House to tell them the news. - President Carter told Congressmen he was going to 'hang tough'. 
And good on him. To quote further from the article: 
In Moscow,  Mr Vance  told a news conference: 
I am disappointed that we failed to make progress in what I consider to be the most essential of the issues between the superpowers'. 

 Mr Vance said Brezhnev 'examined our two proposals and did not find either acceptable. They proposed nothing new on their side'. 
The Soviet leader held a final one-hour meeting with Vance today. 
At the Stan of the session Brezhnev appeared affable. 
Wearing a hearing aid and grunting, he shook hands with the Secretary of State as newsmen looked on. 
The Government, I believe, has to abide by the diplomacies of international politics but may I, as an ordinary humble back bencher and a fourth generation Australian with 3 kids, say that unlike the honourable member for Melbourne and some of his colleagues I am extremely concerned by the persistent belligerence and aggression of Soviet Russia and its refusal to talk with the United States of America on a reduction of nuclear arms. It is all right for the honourable member for Melbourne. It is in his interests. He would like to see a situation develop where America cut back on her arms but Soviet Russia doubled hers. 
The Soviet arms race is, I believe, a matter of concern. I do not want to see in 1977 in Australia the sort of thing which happened in the United Kingdom in 1938. It is people like the honourable member for Melbourne who say there is no problem and that we are kicking the communist can. If his point of view is accepted in the Australian community we will find ourselves totally without defences; we will find ourselves with an Indian Ocean which has been converted into a Russian lake, and we will find ourselves a satellite of Moscow within a very short period of time. The honourable member for Melbourne laughs at me and there are others like him. In another Parliament in London in 1938 they laughed at somebody else. When we can have a situation in which one super power can simply turn its back on reason and discussion designed to halt the nuclear arms race; when we have a situation in which one super power can thumb its nose at the world, I believe every Australian who is concerned about the future of this country, and the world, has a duty to speak out as I have done tonight, no matter what the honourable member for Melbourne and his pro-communist allies like to say on the subject. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House takes note of the fact that once again Tasmania has been held to ransom and isolated from the rest of Australia as a direct result of strike action within the transport industry. 
That this House further notes that the agreement made with the ACTU that Tasmania would be exempt from such strike action has been honoured more in the breach than in the observance. 
That this House reaffirms that Tasmania is part of the Commonwealth of Australia and that the people of Tasmania are becoming increasingly incensed by the irresponsible actions of mainland trade union leaders whereby communication links between Tasmania and the mainland States are disrupted and violated with monotonous regularity, causing extreme hardship to thousands of travellers and serious damage to one of Tasmania's major income earners, namely the tourist industry. 
That this House resolves that appropriate steps should be taken to ensure that persons who engage in irresponsible strike action which has the effect of isolating Tasmania and endangering even the economic viability of the State of Tasmania shall be called upon to answer for their actions. 
My question to the Minister for Transport also relates to the isolation of Tasmania from the mainland as a result of the transport industry strike. Was an agreement made some time ago that Tasmania should be exempted from the disastrous effects of such strike action within the transport industry? Can the Government do anything to ensure that Tasmania is in future exempted and that Tasmanians will not continue to suffer with monotonous regularity from the actions of mainland industrial gangsters? 
I find this amendment offensive though not to the extent of leading to a revolution. It is yet another example of the Parliament writing into the statutes a provision that a certificate shall be deemed to be  prima facie  evidence of the matters specified in that certificate. I have consistently opposed such provision in State and Commonwealth legislation because I believe it is wrong to bring a defendant before a court and instead of confronting him with witnesses whom he can crossexamine, confronting him with a certificate. The situation under section 124 as it stands at the moment is that a certificate under the hand of the Commissioner certifying as to certain matters shall be received in all courts as evidence of the matters certified. This takes it further and states that for the purpose of the prosecution a certificate is,  'prima facie  evidence of the matters specified in the certificate '. This means that unless a representative of a company goes into the witness box and gives evidence- and having given evidence he can be cross-examined at large- a conviction must follow because the certificate will not have been answered. 
I lodge what is probably a protest 20 years too late. For the last 20 years parliaments have been putting this iniquitous provision into legislation, even in the case of a man who fails to vote. If he goes along to court to defend that prosecution, he is not confronted by witnesses. He cannot say: 'I told the electoral officer what my explanation was on the day in question'. He is confronted by a certificate. I do not believe it is good law. In fact, I believe it is bad law. Having made that protest, let me say that the provisions of the legislation are such that we are dealing with very substantial fines. We are dealing with the reputations of life insurance officers. I believe that we are dealing with the integrity of the managers of the insurance profession of this country. I want to place on record my opposition to a situation in which we facilitate prosecutions by producing certificates instead of producing witnesses. I believe that it works injustice. I certainly believe it does not save time. There are nearly as many arguments about certificates as there are about witnesses who come into court. 
Lastly, I ask the Minister rhetorically as an old friend at the bar: Why is there not a provision in this amendment for a defendant to give notice that he requires the signatory of the certificate to be present for cross-examination? I believe that if we create a situation in which a certificate can be 
PUt in as evidence the Government should at east give the defendant, whether it be a company or an individual, the right to give notice that he desires to cross-examine the man who made out that certificate. I hope that in future if we are to put these iniquitous provisions into legislation we at least remember that there are 2 sides to every prosecution. There is the prosecution and there is the defence. I believe that the defendant has inherently a basic right to confront the man who accuses him, not to be confronted by a printed government certificate. 
Honourable members and certainly the people of Tasmania will be interested to hear that the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  has found his voice again. He found it tonight in a spirited attack claiming that our Government is lacking in compassion, but the question which had been asked in Tasmania is why did we not hear his voice last week when our State was totally isolated from the mainland as a result of deliberate industrial action which he knew, or ought to have known, would have the most disastrous effect on the people of Tasmania, the individual travellers whose travels were interrupted and on the tourist industry. 
This man, the shadow spokesman on transport- I suggest he is not a shadow, he is a phantom- did not say one word about the situation in Tasmania, and he has not said one word about the situation in Victoria. He seems to have lost his voice. He has a classic case of laryngitis. The question I ask is this: He holds the important shadow portfolio of transport. He is the Opposition spokesman on transport. Why is he not speaking up? Is it because the nulla nulla has been laid on him by  Mr Hawke?  Is it because he is frightened to offend the left wing industrial gangsters? Is it because he does not feel, representing the electorate of Shortland, that he can wear 2 hats? The point I make is one of great seriousness because the honourable member knows very well that a so-called gentleman's agreement was entered into in 1971 whereby the Australian Council of Trade Unions guaranteed that Tasmania would be exempt from the disastrous transport strikes which have blighted our island for far too long. 
-The honourable member for St George knows full well that you cannot trust them. While that strike was absolutely strangling Tasmania, isolating us, disrupting us, cutting off our life links with the mainland, not a squeak did we hear from the honourable member for Shortland. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  put the matter very well when he said that as far as Tasmania's problems were concerned  Mr Hawke  did nothing and  Mr Neilson  did less. 
The point I raise is this: Why is it that our friends in the Labor Party suddenly go silent while their trade union colleagues rape State after State? Last week it was Tasmania's turn; this week it is Victoria's turn. What is wrong with honourable members on the other side? Are they not prepared to stand up and say it is about time that certain industrial gangsters ceased using these sorts of tactics on the people of Australia? Are honourable members opposite not prepared to stand up and tell the truth because they are frightened about their pre-selection or their endorsement? If the honourable member for Shortland is not prepared to stand up and say something constructive about the future of Australia, I suggest that he should hand in his shadow portfolio- or rather his phantom portfolio. He ought to resign. We in Tasmania are sick and tired of a situation in which Tasmania is raped and violated with monotonous regularity by these industrial gangsters aided and abetted by the deafening silence of the honourable member for Shortland. I raise the question that I have raised previously and will continue to raise: How long can Australia put up with this situation? How long can we tolerate a situation in which we are held to ransom by an irresponsible few? 
As I have said publicly- I repeat it now- the sooner we get the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation on the statute book, the better. The sooner section 143 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is amended, the better. The sooner we take the stock whip to unions which deliberately and unlawfully interfere with free trade and commerce between the States, the better. What a farcical situation it is that section 92 of the Constitution guarantees free trade, commerce and intercourse between the States. 
-Friends of the honourable member for Hawker- he is urging them on- are raping Tasmania whenever they feel like it. The situation has now reached the point where the people of Tasmania have absolutely had enough. We have had a gut full of these people. The sooner we get this legislation on the statute book, the better. Tasmania is part of the Commonwealth of Australia. None of the left wing industrial gangsters will cut us off. 
Having said that, let me congratulate the Tasmanian members of the Transport Workers Union who voted unanimously to go back to work. They were not prepared to see Tasmania crucified. When their secretary went to a conference in Melbourne and asked for exemption for Tasmania he was told that Tasmania could go to hell, that it was just like any other State. On the credit side, I believe it might well be possible that the air traffic controllers might be prepared to adopt a more reasonable attitude and might be prepared to grant an exemption, at least in part to our State. But it will not be any thanks to the honourable member for Shortland and his parliamentary colleagues who stand by and permit industrial gangsterism to flourish, dishonouring not only their pledge to the Party and to the Parliament but also creating a situation where the only honourable thing the honourable member for Shortland can do is resign his shadow portfolio. He is a complete failure. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Transport. The Minister would be aware that yesterday, after discussions with senior officers of his Department, I made a personal appeal to the  President  of the Civil Air Operations Officers Association of Australia,  Mr Charles  Stuart, that Tasmania should be totally or partially exempted from the air traffic controllers strike scheduled to commence at 12 noon on Friday. In the event of the air traffic controllers federal executive deciding in principle to exempt Tasmania from the strike, can the Minister assure the House that he and his Department will do everything in their power to see that the exemption for Tasmania eventuates? 

 - Mr Speaker, my question is directed to you. Has your attention been drawn to a Press report yesterday of a suggestion by the Federal Secretary of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr David  Combe, that he and the Federal  President  of the ALP,  Mr R.  J. Hawke, should be able to attend Caucus meetings here in Canberra as non-voting members? As Standing Orders do not appear to prevent the presence of strangers within the precincts of party rooms, will you as  Chairman  of the Standing Orders Committee carefully consider the very serious implications of this matter before we find ourselves invaded by would-be members of the House of Representatives whose only chance of getting into the House is through the back door? 
-As one who has been genuinely committed to the welfare of pensioners and the under-privileged since I first came into Parliament 1 1 years ago, may I say that I support the legislation and I congratulate the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  on the manner in which he is performing the duties of his portfolio. Despite his obvious advantage in being a Tasmanian, I suggest to the House with respect that he has been one of the most outstanding Ministers in the Fraser Ministry.  His  sincerity and dedication to helping less privileged members of the community should be a lesson to honourable members opposite and to certain Labor Ministers in the Labor States who seem to delight in denigrating him when he endeavours to do something to uplift a section of the community which took the greatest battering in its history under 3 years of Labor administration from 1972 to 1975. 1 can demonstrate, and would if I were permitted in the debate on this Bill, that the sections of the community which suffered most from the economic ravages of the Whitlam Government between 1972 and 1975 were the pensioners, the poor and the underprivileged. 
I congratulate the Minister because he has brought this legislation before the House as an interim measure to continue a scheme set up in 1974. It is fascinating to hear honourable members opposite complaining about the inequities of the legislation and alleging injustice, but in fact they brought in this scheme in 1974. Why are they complaining? They are complaining because the Minister has arranged and the Government has commissioned the preparation of some very important reports on the future of this type of welfare housing. Rather than bring about a complete breakdown of the programs, the Government considered it appropriate and fair to extend the 3-year plan into a 4-year plan. This small but very significant piece of legislation is to appropriate the sum of $ 10m to the States to enable the plan which has operated over the last 3 years to continue until, I have no doubt, a much better, more realistic and perhaps more just plan is forthcoming when the reports are to hand. I congratulate the Minister on his sincerity and dedication. 
I also take this opportunity to congratulate the former Minister for Housing in Tasmania, the Honourable Darryl Baldock, for his sincerity and his hard work on behalf of the people of Tasmania. The Honourable Darryl Baldock would be better known to most Australians as a champion footballer. He has been one of the successes of the Neilson Ministry, particularly in the area of the poor and the underprivileged. He was hard working. He never sought publicity. He never attempted to take cheap political points off his Federal counterpart. 
I am sad to say that I cannot say the same nice things about the present State Minister for Housing, commonly known in Tasmania as Headline 
Harry. The honourable member for Bass,  Mr Holgate,  known as I said as Headline Harry, has reacted in a completely improper manner in respect of this legislation and, indeed, in respect of the Government's housing policy generally by making wild statements which appear in the Press and which put fear and trepidation into the hearts of pensioners and the underprivileged not only doing this Government a disservice but also doing a great disservice to a section of the community for which I feel keenly and which should not be used as political cannon fodder. I believe that the subject of welfare housing is above and beyond party politics. I want to say that  Mr Holgate  would do far better in his Ministry if he adopted the hard working and sincere approach of the former Minister,  Mr Baldock,  and did not try to score cheap political points off the present Federal minister,  Mr Newman,  simply because  Mr Holgate  and he both happen to represent the electorate of Bass in northern Tasmania. 
Having made those comments, I shall refer briefly to 2 aspects which I believe are important in the overall appreciation of the significance of this legislation. Contrary to what  Mr Holgate  has said in Tasmania, namely that 'in my opinion the Federal Government is progressively trying to opt out of government housing leaving the States to accept the financial burden' and 'that is why  Mr Newman  wants to cut off our supply of low interest money which we depend upon so much to charge reasonable rents' this Government, under this Minister, is determined to get better value for its welfare housing dollar. Far from abrogating its responsibilities, it is facing up to them to ensure that firstly the taxpayers' dollar is wisely spent and secondly that it gets to the area of most need. Claims by  Mr Holgate,  the Tasmanian Minister, that the Commonwealth is opting out or the disgraceful allegation that he has spread around that we were trying to push up pensioners ' rents - 
-The honourable member for La Trobe is correct. Those statements can only be described as contemptible and designed to put fear and trepidation into the hearts of the people in a section of the community for whom I have time and for whom I believe my colleagues the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  and the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  also have time. We want to see their position improved. We do not want to see them used as political cannon fodder. 
As I said, the Bill will extend the scheme from 3 years to 4 years and will pump $10m into welfare housing for single pensioners. Everybody in the Parliament would like to have seen that $10m raised to $ 15m. No doubt, the Minister, more than any of us, would like to have seen the amount doubled. But in the present economic situation, it was not possible. I repeat that the formula of distribution is that which was fixed by the previous Administration. In the case of Tasmania, that means that $280,000 will be spent next financial year on accommodation for single pensioners. I announced that, following a statement by the Minister in Tasmania, with some pleasure. An amount of $280,000 being spent on pensioners in my State is good news. What did miserable Headline Harry say in response to that? He said that the amount provided had not taken account of inflation and that instead of 20 units Tasmania would receive only 15 units. That, regrettably, is a fact of life, But Headline Harry should be reminded who created inflation and also - 
-Very well,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The State Minister in Tasmania should say: 'I am glad to get the funds for 15 units rather than not receive funds at all'. Let us face it: The Government could have said that in the circumstances it would let the old scheme lapse until it received the reports to which I referred earlier. Pensioners in great need will benefit under this legislation. The money will be used for the construction by the State housing authorities of selfcontained units of accommodation for a range of single pensioners entitled to supplementary assistance. I still do not know, without being pedantic, why we refer to grants as interest free nonrepayable grants. Let us be quite frank. The money is being given by the Commonwealth to the States. 
I wish to mention a significant change for which I believe the Minister should be singled out for special praise. Consistent with our commitment to federalism, having given that money to the States the States will be able to assess their priorities. They will not have to run back and forth from Canberra and to Canberra seeking official approval for practically everything they do. If anything bedevilled the government of this country from 1972 to 1975, it was the centralist panache which insisted that every T had to be dotted in Canberra and every 't' had to be crossed in Canberra. This legislation takes away that requirement that the States must submit to the Commonwealth Minister for his approval details of each building scheme to be financed. I congratulate the Minister for an application of practical federalism. To date, over 20 1 7 units of accommodation have been funded under this scheme. As I said, in the case of Tasmania we will probably receive another 15 or 16 units. They will go to pensioners in need. The sorts of pensioners to which that assistance will go are age pensioners, invalid pensioners, class B widow pensioners and service pensioners who are permanently unemployable, suffering from tuberculosis or in receipt of a pension because of age. No honourable member would deny that these single people are in extreme need of proper accommodation and housing. It is the responsibility of government to provide it. 
I mentioned 2 reports- the Task Force on Coordination in Welfare and Health, known as the Bailey report, and the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Care of the Aged and Infirm. The Bailey report is to hand. What a magnificent inspring document it is, one which I hope will be embraced by this Government. In the field of health and welfare it offers a new hope to an Australian marching towards the twenty-first century. It is a magnificent document. It is almost a standard textbook on federalism, government close to the people, getting value for dollar spent and getting that dollar into the area of most need. It is right and proper that the Government should very carefully consider the implications of the Bailey report and the recommendations with respect to SHACC which, in fact, is to be a block grant scheme to take care of this program. Similarly, the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Care of the Aged and Infirm is another document which the Government should consider carefully. I am convinced that under this Minister- in fairness, under the Minister of whichever government was in power- we will come up with an even better scheme for the financial year 1978-79 than the scheme that has operated to date. Is not that what good government is all about? It is correct that we should extend this scheme for that one year so that the impetus which was built up over the last 3 years is not lost. The $30m which has been spent to date will be benefited by the additional expenditure of $ 10m or, in many instances, continuing programs which have been started to date yet not completed. This will be done with the added advantage that in this case the State Ministers will not be hogtied by having to go to Canberra for approval on every detail. 
As I said, $10m is money in anybody's language. I express appreciation of the allocation to Tasmania. As I come to the conclusion of my speech, I wish to refer to the sort of accommodation which will be made available under the legislation we are passing. A typical unit of accommodation would be between 12 square metres and SO square metres in area containing a bed-sitting room or one separate room, kitchen and bathroom with toilet. Some units will be selfcontained in regard to laundry facilities. But in others, those facilities will be shared between a small number of flats occupied by single pensioners. On the subject of rentals, is it not to the credit of this Government and also the previous Government that, whilst there is a variation of rentals between the States, the highest rental paid by a single pensioner in Australia today- in 1977-for this accommodation is $8.90 a week? I believe that is something of which government can be proud. The highest rental paid by a single pensioner in Australia today is $8.90 a week. All pensioner tenants of these units are eligible for the supplementary assistance of $5 a week paid by the Department of Social Security. So the net rental payment is $4.90 a week. I believe that the present Federal Government and the previous Federal Government can take pride in that achievement, namely, that we are able to provide accommodation of the highest quality for single pensioners under disability for $4.90 a week. 
Questions have been asked as to why this legislation deals only with single aged pensioners. I might just answer that question. I believe it is established beyond any shadow of doubt that a significant measure of poverty is established by considering disposable income, after housing costs, rather than total income only. Using an after-housing-costs formula the proportion of the very poor among the aged and the non-aged sick and invalid falls in relation to the rest of the population. The second point I make is that both the report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty and the 1974 aged persons housing survey establish that the nature of occupancy is central to determining the extent of poverty. 
The third point is that the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty- I am summarising these points- showed that the incidence of poverty is greatest in the single male and the single female tenant groups. They are the areas of greatest need. Fourthly, assistance for housing married pensioners is made to the States under the 1973-74 Housing Agreement. These figures, I believe, will interest all honourable members. 
The State housing authorities' waiting list for aged accommodation contained 4300 applications outstanding from married couples and 12 700 from single persons as at December 1975. Fifthly, I make this point in respect of housing demand from 1 97 1 to the end of this century. We can expect the proportion of the population who are aged to rise steadily- indeed, the Borrie report and others prove that beyond any doubtuntil the last decade of this century. In terms of demand for resources, this implies a relative shift of need from the very young towards the very old. Sixthly, towards the end of this century Australia will need to spend relatively more on such things as aged pensions and other age related welfare schemes and relatively less- I am sad to say this- on such things as child endowment, education, creches and the like. If we continue to abort future generations at the rate at which we are aborting at the moment, we will be spending even less- to our eternal shame. 
Seventhly, I want to refer to something which I mentioned a moment ago. The Bailey Task Force has proposed the establishment of a SHACC- that is, sheltered accommodationprogram as one of 4 programs in the welfare and health area. Peter Bailey suggested that the aged or disabled persons homes program should be absorbed into a new program. It is for that reason, as the Minister has indicated, that the Government has given preliminary consideration to the recommendations of that report, wants more time to consider their implications and, accordingly, has introduced this interim measure to extend the existing scheme. My eighth and final point is that I believe in this legislation. Indeed, I believe, in the approach and the commitment of our Government that we have demonstrated to the pensioners of Australia, to the poor of Australia, and to the under-privileged of Australia that we have a genuine commitment to their welfare and to their betterment, that we are determined that they shall be properly and appropriately housed, and that they shall be cared for in the twilight years of their lives. 
As I said a few moments ago, many of us would have liked more money to be spent. What is being spent is a telescopic projection of what the Labor Government introduced in 1974. I commend our Minister for what he has done. I hope that others- I will not use the description for which I was called to order a moment agowill not again use the pensioners of this country as a means by which to stir up political propaganda of a cheap and unworthy nature. We did not see that occur under our previous State Minister for Housing, and I am sorry to see it occurring under our present Minister. But perhaps I should say no more than that I commend the Government and particularly the Minister. I have much pleasure in supporting the legislation. 
Following the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon),  I speak in both sorrow and anger but without notes because, once again, we have had the news today - 
-A small group of friends of the honourable member for Melbourne have decided that they are going to hold this country to ransom and, in particular, once again to hold Tasmania to ransom. 
-The honourable member for Melbourne can yell and scream as much as he likes. I am now going to denounce his left wing and communist friends because I and the people of Tasmania on both sides of the political fence, and I believe the people of Australia, are sick and tired of those industrial mobsters and gangsters who repeatedly determine that they are going to hold to ransom this country and, in particular, the state of Tasmania. When I say that I speak in sorrow, I do, and when I say that I speak in anger, I do. Late this afternoon we received the news that the air traffic controllers had determined that their strike scheduled for tomorrow at 12 noon would go on. Sadly for me, my State and good people, both Liberal and Labor, in Tasmania once again Tasmania is to be isolated and held to ransom because these people said this afternoon it was not possible to exempt Tasmania from the strike. 
Let me recount the sad and sorry tale of what has occurred this week and the efforts of people of goodwill from both sides of the political fence in Tasmania in endeavouring to save our State. What has been the product of our labour and efforts? On Tuesday afternoon, following lengthy discussions with senior officers of the Department of Transport and with the full co-operation and assistance of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  who has been absolutely magnificent in this matter- I will pay many tributes to him for the way he has handled the matter- I determined to make a personal plea as an ordinary back bencher of this Parliament, not as anybody special but as somebody who was concerned about the fact that Tasmania had been held to ransom with monotonous regularity. I rang the  president  of the organisation concerned, the Civil Air Operation Officers Association of Australia. I spoke to the Federal  President, Mr Charles  Stuart. 
Let me say from the outset that I was pleasantly surprised at the way that he received my submission and at his undertaking that he would put to the Federal executive of the air traffic controllers my submission, as the submission of an ordinary member of this Parliament, that Tasmania should be exempt from the forthcoming strike. I merely asked that the gentlemen's agreement with the Australian Council of Trade Unions that Tasmania should be exempt from transport strikes should apply to this organisation, which as a matter of interest is not affiliated with the ACTU. Is this not right and reasonable in a Commonwealth comprising 6 States, five of which have the opportunity of rail or road communication? Tasmanians cannot walk across Bass Strait, and to all intents and purposes air transportation is the jugular vein of their transport links with the mainland. The honourable member for Melbourne may think this is funny. It is not funny. I tell him that in this matter I have on side, whether the honourable member likes it or not, the  Deputy  Premier of Tasmania and the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council. I can assure the honourable member that they do not think it is funny. 
It is all right for the honourable member for Chifley too. He would not know the difference between B and a bull's foot. He carries on incessantly. He is trying to shut out the voice of Tasmania from this Parliament and the nation, but he will not succeed. 
-The honourable member will not distract me. Whether I am here in 2 years time is irrelevant. 
-Thank you. Despite the honourable member for Melbourne and his left wing and communist friends, I will speak the truth and the people of Australia will hear the truth as to how a small gang can hold this country to ransom. As I said, I was pleasantly surprised at the sympathetic hearing I received from the Federal  President. Mr Stuart  told me that he would put my submission to his executive. I hope that his executive, as a group of fair and reasonable men, appreciate that we in Tasmania have had enough of transport strikes. We have had enough of being isolated and strangled. At the same time I pay a tribute to senior officers in the Department of Transport, particularly  Mr Col Freeland  and  Mr David  Graham, who were of utmost assistance to me. I repeat my tribute to the Minister for Transport. Whatever unpopularity he may have incurred in years past as Minister for Shipping and Transport in a previous administration, he has really stood up and fought for Tasmania under the Fraser Government. Yesterday he was asked a question which I want to read into  Hansard,  not simply incorporate in  Hansard,  because it is significant that we note the question asked, the answer given and the response of the irresponsible industrial gangsters. This is what I asked  Mr Nixon  yesterday: 
I direct my question to the Minister for Transport. The Minister would be aware that yesterday - 
That is Tuesday- after discussions with senior officers of his Department, I made a personal appeal to the  President  of the Civil Air Operations Officers Association of Australia,  Mr Charles  Stuart, that Tasmania should be totally or partially exempted from the air traffic controllers strike scheduled to commence at 12 noon on Friday. In the event of the air traffic controllers federal executive deciding in principle to exempt Tasmania from the strike, can the Minister assure the House that he and his Department will do everything in their power to see that the exemption for Tasmania eventuates? 
The Minister answered in the following terms: 
I should point out that the claims of the air traffic controllers are presently before the Public Service Board. I am hopeful that the proposed and intended strike as announced by the air traffic controllers will not proceed, but I would not profess to be terribly optimistic about that at this point, in view of the public statement made by the air traffic controllers themselves. I am aware of the immense significance that a strike of this nature could have to Tasmania. It has been drawn to my attention by the honourable member for Denison and his colleagues from Tasmania many times. I congratulate the honourable member on the initiative he has taken, firstly in having discussions with senior officers of my Department and then getting in touch with the  president  of the Civil Air Operation Officers Association of Australia in respect of this matter. Hopefully the air traffic controllers will listen to the pleas of the honourable member. Certainly, if they respond to the pleas by expressing the intention of still going ahead with the strike - 
And these are the important words: 
I shall make sure that my Department co-operates fully to ensure that services to Tasmania continue if the strike eventuates. 
What the Minister said then was quite a significant commitment and one which was much welcomed in Tasmania on both sides of the political fence. Let me, without becoming too technical, now expand on what the Minister was saying. The last time we had an air traffic controllers strike the Department of Transport, by administrative action, released air space between Tasmania and the mainland. That permitted some form of air communication between our State and the mainland States. The  president  of the air traffic controllers informed me that he felt that this had been dangerous on the previous occasion. We were endeavouring to see whether a situation could be reached whereby if the air traffic controllers said that they were prepared to exempt Tasmania from the strike the Department would have co-operated by making appropriate arrangements to ensure that with safety and under departmental control planes could fly in and out of Tasmania. 
What then happened? Following the Minister's answer in the House yesterday I was delighted to see the intervention in this matter of the  Deputy  Premier of Tasmania, the  Hon.  Doug Lowe who although a Labor man- he and I are politically opposed- is a man of whom I as a Tasmanian am proud. He is without any shadow of doubt one of the outstanding State Ministers in Australia. The  Hon.  D. A. Lowe,  Deputy  Premier of Tasmania, also approached the air traffic controllers. I say to the honourable member for Melbourne that he was supported by unanimous resolution of the Tasmanian Trades and Labor Council. 
-That is right. The Council resolved unanimously to ask the air traffic controllers union to exempt Tasmania. So, we have a Federal Liberal member, a Labor Deputy Premier, the Tasmanian Trades and Labor Council and 99 per cent of the people of Tasmania asking for this exemption. What did these dictatorial gangsters reply? Their first reply was that it was not possible to do so at this stage but they said, in a patronising manner, 'try again'. 
What happened today? The members of that union met in Melbourne today. They determined that their strike would go on. At the conclusion of their deliberations, when the question of Tasmania was raised, their Federal Secretary,  Mr Garlick,  said words to the effect that it was not possible. What sort of an answer is that? As far as I am concerned it is not good enough. Even at this late hour I appeal to the association to rethink what it is doing to Tasmania. We have been raped incessantly by industrial strike action. We are sick and tired of it. It is just not good enough for the federal secretary of the Civil Air Operations Officers Association to say it is not possible. Anything is possible if you have the will. Do not the air traffic controllers realise that 10 days ago Tasmanians were isolated for over 3 days with no air communication between our State and the mainland? Do not they feel concerned about the fact that to my personal knowledge 3 families in Hobart were in a situation that relatives died on the mainland during that weekend and they could not get to their relatives - 
-I am not a liar. You are a liar. You are a disgraceful little liar. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member for Denison will resume his seat. I suggest to the honourable member for Melbourne that he restrain himself. I notice that he is the next  speaker  in the debate. The phrase that he used is completely unparliamentary and I ask the honourable member to withdrawn. 

 -Mr Speaker, I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move- and I might say that this motion is seconded by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom): 
That, bearing in mind the fundamental principles contained in section 92 of the Commonwealth Constitution, this House is of the opinion that it is alien to the concept of federalism if deliberate industrial strike action is instigated for the purpose of interfering, hindering or preventing freedom of trade and commerce between the States or for the purpose ofeffectively isolating one State from the other States and accordingly this House is of the opinion that in defence of the federal system in Australia legislation should be passed by this Parliament at the earliest opportunity to ensure thatthose who choose to contravene the principles of section 92. by isolating States and in particular the State of Tasmania, shall be called upon to publicly answer for their actions and shall be subject to appropriate sanctions in accordance with the law. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House places on record its gratitude to the Prime Minister for his courageous and decisive action at 3.S5 p.m. on Wednesday, II May 1977 in announcing that his Government would not tolerate Tasmania being isolated from the rest of the Commonwealth and that if necessary planes of the Royal Australian Air Force would ensure the maintenance of communication links between the island State and the mainland. 
Independence of the Public Service 
Is the Minister for Transport aware that at its meeting in Hobart yesterday the Australian National Railways Commission decided to lease the Hobart railway station property to the Tasmanian Government at a peppercorn rental to enable a slip road to be built across the tracks? Is that crazy decision subject to ministerial veto or approval? 
-Because of the shortness of time and in fairness to the Opposition my remarks will be brief. I want to mention 2 matters relating to proposed new section 45A. That proposed new section, as I see it, will confer very substantial benefits on small business throughout Australia. My concern, which I have drawn to the attention of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, is to ensure that the full force and effect of the benefits intended by the Government to be conveyed to small business should be received fully in the smaller States and in isolated country areas. The Minister was kind enough in Hobart last week to spend some time with representatives of the business community of Hobart and the Hobart Chamber of Commerce. I have drawn to his attention- I have no doubt that it applies in Western Australia, in northern Queensland and probably in rural New South Wales, South Australia and Victoria- that there are areas in which there would not be a trade association with 50 individual members. It seems to me that those trade associations with more than 50 members are therefore given some sort of advantage or, to put it more correctly, are getting the full benefit under the provision of the legislation whereas those trade associations which may have only 10, 12 or 20 members will not qualify. 
I ask the Minister, in the period between now and the Budget session, to monitor what is happening to see whether the full value and effect of this new section is getting through to small business particularly in Tasmania and in other isolated areas throughout Australia. My belief is that it is the wish of the Government that all sections of small business should receive the benefit of this proposed new section in the legislation. The figure of fifty has been arrived at arbitrarily. I say that it is too high. I ask the Minister to monitor the position during the next 2 months by whatever means is most appropriate to ensure that while some parts of Australia receive the full advantage which the Government intends them to receive other parts do not fail to receive the full advantage. 
-My question without notice- it is without notice- is directed to the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister seen a report in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  under the headline 'Wran attacks Prime Minister's end of freeze', in which  Mr Wran  is reported as saying that  'Mr Fraser  had been premature in ending the freeze and should have waited a little longer"? Could the wage-price freeze have continued in view of the unilateral decision last Thursday by the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  to withdraw from the arrangement. 
-We have just listened to the most incredible speech from the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  Notwithstanding the fact that he is an undisguised centralist, with the greatest of respect to him he has just purveyed some of the greatest nonsense that has been heard in this chamber for many years. The honourable member for Oxley is, of course, the pretender to the throne. He has an appointment tomorrow morning and he no doubt anticipated that this would be his final speech to sway a few wavering members to support him.  His  speech tonight was what one would expect from someone who is drifting very badly in the market, someone who has drifted from short odds to about seven to two. I suggest that the honourable member for Oxley would have been a far better policeman than he has been a politician. When he returns to civilian life at the next election in 1978 he will be a far better barrister than he has been a politician. 
It is not fair for the honourable member for Oxley to stand here as though he is talking in a vacuum, living on cloud nine. He might be able to fool Caucus members and dazzle them with science. But he cannot fool the people of Australia by purveying nonsense about economic matters of considerable importance remembering that he, in his own small way, would have to qualify for the title of one of the greatest economic vandals this country has ever had to endure. It was the honourable member for Oxley who brought in a Budget with a deficit of $2.8 billion. Yet within the space of a mere 6 months, the figure was soaring to nearly $5,000m. It is the same honourable member for Oxley who, at the weekend in a delusion of grandeur, proposed the funding of a special $800m project which he said would bring employment to 50 000 Australians. What he did not say was that this $800m project would, firstly, lead to higher inflation; secondly, lead to higher interest rates; thirdly, drastically interfere with the money supply and, fourthly, would lead to higher unemployment in the long run. If those 50 000 could be given the opportunity - 
-In rising to support the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission Bill I firstly commend the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  for the manner in which the Bill has been presented following discussions and negotiations with the Law and Government Committee. The matter has been under careful consideration for a period of over 12 months. The only matter which I feel has caused some concern in the community is that the actual legislation has been available for inspection for only a comparatively short time. Legislation under pressure, particularly technical legislation, requires careful consideration. Perhaps it would have been better if a little more time had been available but due to the sittings of the House this is not possible. Nevertheless, the legislation has my total support. I say from the outset that the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  in my respectful submission, gave a very negative and disappearing performance in his speech on this Bill. It seemed to me, with respect, to be a disparaging speech, particularly in regard to the efforts of the profession. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith can make a good speech. It is a very great pity that on this occasion he did not take the opportunity to show a more dazzling form instead of being so negative, disappointing and disparaging. 
I come from a State which I believe has the proudest record in legal aid in Australia. Possibly, its record is equalled only by the State of South Australia from which "you come,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I was delighted to note that the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith saw fit to quote certain extracts from the excellent paper by Professor Ronald Sackville in the Law and Poverty Series of the Australian Government Commission of Inquiry into Poverty. I shall quote very briefly from some parts of the paper dealing with legal aid in Australia. Reference was made to the Tasmanian scheme. Professor Sackville was kind enough to note the similarities between the scheme we had and the scheme which operated in South Australia. In his report presented in 1975, Professor Sackville said: 
The history of the legal aid scheme run by the Tasmanian Law Society resembles that of the system in South Australia: both have developed from schemes initiated by the profession as a public service and operating at low rate of return to practitioners. 
Those are important words. I repeat that both schemes, that in Tasmania and the one in South Australia, developed from schemes initiated by the profession as a public service and operated at low rate of return to practitioners. The report goes on to state: 
The Legal Assistance Act 1 954 made provision for the operation of an 'approved scheme' run by a law society incorporated under the Tasmanian Law Societies Act 1887 and approved by the Attorney-General, this legislation, which is virtually identical to that now in force, provided for the remission of fees payable to the State by assisted persons, but the finance devoted to the scheme was limited to grants made by the Tasmanian Parliament, and the dividends paid to solicitors were low. Despite this, the 'public service' history of the scheme is still apparent: legal aid work is distributed relatively evenly among all practitioners, and participation in the scheme is generally regarded as a professional duty. 
In the 1930s, 1940s and early 1950s in Tasmania it was not uncommon for legal practitioners to take legal work for no fee at all. So it can be seen that the origins of the legal aid scheme in our State were on the basis of public service and not fee or reward. In 1 954, the scheme provided dividends as low as 30 per cent of the normal fee. 
I indicate that to honourable members at a time when we hear complaints about the level of legal aid availability in Australia today. In some cases the fees are based on the fee scales operating in the Australian Capital Territory. When Aboriginal legal aid first came into effect and applied in Tasmania and I was briefed by the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service, I found that the fee payable to me in Tasmania was based on the Canberra fee scale which was higher than I would ever have charged in a fit. Yet, had I done that work under the State legal aid scheme, it would have been done for perhaps 50 per cent or 55 per cent of the fee payable. I say that in the overall context there is some validity in what the honourable .member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  said, that is, that in some areas the money spent has not gone to the greatest area of need and that in some ways regrettably legal aid has reached a situation of actually causing increases in fees in States where previously the fees were on a reasonable level. The higher fees charged in the more affluent States forced up the fee rates in other States. That certainly would not have been the wish of any Attorney-General, be he a Labor Party or Liberal Party AttorneyGeneral. 
I see this Bill as effecting 2 main purposes. Firstly, it establishes a Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission which will review the operation of the States' commissions. Secondly, and fundamentally, it will preserve the rights of those presently employed in the Australian Legal Aid Office operation throughout Australia who transfer to State or Territory commissions and who may at some future time wish to transfer back into the Commonwealth Public Service. I will deal with the first proposition, namely, the formation of the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission. I believe it is completely compatible with our federalism policy that where a series of State commissions is being established there should be a Commonwealth Commission to overview the operation of the States' commissions. The amendment of the shadow Attorney-General, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith, and the remarks he made in his speech seemed again to be echoing the claim that in some way the Commonwealth is opting out of its responsibilities, that in some way" the Treasury was applying the big nulla nulla and that this Attorney-General and presumably others who follow him would not be able to stand up to the Treasury and secure a proper appropriation of fees for legal aid. 
-The honourable member is completely wrong. I put it to him- it is a matter of public record for those who take the trouble to check it out-that in this financial year 1976-77 the present Attorney-General was able to squeeze out of Treasury a sum of $ 17.9m, which was approximately $5m more than the Treasury was prepared to give him in the first place. If I embarrass the Attorney-General, I regret that. But the fact is that he single handed batted up Treasury from an allocation of$12m to $17m. 
-The honourable member says 'Not enough'. Can he not give a man praise when he brought a 43 per cent increase in expenditure for legal aid over what the Whitlam Labor Government was able to find in its 1975-76 Budget. I think that a 43 per cent increase in expenditure in one year is not a bad effort. For the honourable member to suggest that the Attorney-General was in any way cowed or intimidated by Treasury is bordering on the libellous. 
Does the honourable member for KingsfordSmith seriously think that we will establish a Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission and then opt out of the field? People have been running round the country saying, as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has been saying, that the Commonwealth is opting out. They have done the Attorney-General and this Government a grave injustice. I wonder whether the AttorneyGeneral can give us figures showing how much the Commonwealth has put into the scheme this year and how much all the States have put in this year. They we will see who is pulling their weight. Then we will see who is carrying the load. It is completely and absolutely unjust for the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith and his puppet Attorney-General in New South Wales to suggest that we are opting out of the scheme. 
In the remaining time available, I wish to mention the rights of those people at present employed in the Australian Legal Aid Office and what will happen to them. We have been fortunate in Tasmania to have had fine directors of legal aid and fine staff in the Australian Legal Aid Office. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith starts to grin. Let me take him to task on one thing: 
-On the contrary. The honourable member knows very well that I cannot be. I would forfeit my seat. 
-The honourable member knows very little about the Constitution. He has not even read it. 
-The honourable member can live in hope as I live in hope. We will see who was right when the election is held. However, he is interrupting the speech I am trying to finish in order to give the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  an opportunity to enter the fray. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith did the profession a very grave disservice when he said that if he went into a private solicitor's office he could not receive the same legal aid service as he would receive at the shop front of the Legal Aid Office. That might be true in the rest of Australia but it is not true in Tasmania. I do not believe it would be true in other States either. I do not think that the honourable member is entitled to make that claim. There are legal practitioners right around this country who, unlike some of the rip off merchants in Sydney and other big cities, are the people - 
-Yes, the honourable member knows all about them. They are prepared to give public service and are prepared to give a better service to those in most need. I want to say here and now that I believe the legal practitioner has the greatest professional duty. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith made an unfortunate and disparaging slur on the private profession which has given many hours of service and service worth many millions of dollars to the people of Australia, particularly those in need. I would be less than frank if I sat down without congratulating the AttorneyGeneral on one matter of basic principle which I have held since 1974 to be fundamental. It is a principle for which I have badgered and battled, which the Law in Government Committee put to the Attorney-General and which he accepted in principle. I refer to the basic right for legal aid to be available to the children of Australia. I believe that the children of Australia have been the most legally oppressed minority in this country. To have the Attorney-General of this Government acknowledging that those people who in the past have not been given legal aid as of right represents the acceptance of a principle and I believe that this Attorney-General will be remembered and admired for many years to come. I support the Bill. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. Has the Government examined new economic proposals designed to lift government spending by $800m and to lift the government deficit to $3.5 billion? If such proposals have been looked at, is the Treasurer able to comment on them before the introduction of the Budget tonight? 
I rise to place on record my contempt of the State Labor Government in Tasmania for two recent actions which I believe were absolutely disgraceful. The first relates to a disgraceful episode in which a pig-headed and stupid government set about deliberately victimising a small but significant group of trade unionists who wished to stand up for their rights and the protection of their jobs. While I have incurred some criticism in my own home State for supporting members of the Australian Railways Union, I want to say that I have done it in good faith and I will do it again. I am very proud that when they had their meeting last Sunday to decide whether or not they would remove certain carriages which they had placed across the tracks at the Hobart railway station, members of the union invited me to be present as an observer and to speak briefly to the meeting. 
Very shortly, what happened was that approximately two months ago, in a moment of blind insanity, the State Labor Government decided that it was going to build a slip road across eight railway tracks 200 yards from the Hobart railway station. This was at the very time that a campaign was being mounted for the reintroduction of the Hobart suburban rail service and a very strong campaign was being fought for the retention of the Tasman Limited. At that time, and I repeat it, I challenged the Premier to indicate any city in the world which did not have either a suburban rail service or a tram service. Hobart has neither, and indeed Hobart 's road traffic is very slowly but surely strangling the city. I challenged the Premier to nominate any city in the world where it was proposed to put a highway across the railway tracks 200 yards from the main rail terminal. 
Naturally, members of the Australian Railways Union and other affiliated unions took a pretty dim view of this. It is crazy to think that trains can be run across one minute and cars the next. One can imagine somebody standing there with a red flag waving the cars through one minute and a train the next. In any event, when the Government had indicated that it was blindly determined to go its own way, the unionists decided to put four railway carriages across the tracks. I believe that in order to protect their jobs they had a right to do that. Although I have been accused of backing a union which was bucking the Government, I say that because the jobs of the men were in jeopardy they had a right to take action. The bulldozers moved in on each side and we had the situation of the slip road being built on one side and up to the tracks on the other side. When it got to the tracks it could not go any further because the carriages were there. 
The State Labor Government then gave a direction through the Transport Commission that shunters would be ordered to move the carriages off the track so that the slip road could be completed. When that small but gallant band of men stood firm, the Tasmanian Labor Government proceeded not only to suspend them one by one but also to call in the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and ask him to assist it to do its dirty work. I am very proud of a Federal Minister who had the guts to stand up and say that he was not going to become involved in the dispute, that it was not a dispute involving the Commonwealth Government. The Minister refused to lend his weight to the efforts of the Neilson Government to suspend the railway shunters. It was good to see a Country Party Minister standing up on this occasion against the State Labor Government, which had decided that it would persecute a small group of unionists. 
By holding out, those unionists were able to get into a bargaining position, and the State Government has now made certain commitments to them that the slip road will operate for only 1 8 months, that it will be only one lane, and that there will be an inquiry into the reintroduction of a suburban electrified rail service in Hobart. I believe that in the years to come the people of Tasmania will remember the day when the railway men stood firm, their own Labor Government took the stock whip to them, and the Federal Minister, to his eternal credit, declined to do the State Government's dirty work. 
The other matter I wish to raise relates to the opening of the Tasman Bridge and the petty and disgraceful attitude, of the State Government in cutting up rough because the Prime Minister of Australia had occasion to suggest that the man who ought to open it, the logical person, was the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck).  The Premier of Tasmania could not take it, he could not cop it. The honourable member for Franklin has done more for the people on the eastern shore since the Tasman Bridge collapsed than anybody in Tasmania, but the Premier has used the device of saying that the bridge ought to be opened by a minister of religion in an ecumenical service. The honourable member for Franklin is a gentleman and he has said that he will go along with it. But people will never forget what that man did at the time that the bridge collapsed and subsequently. It is nothing short of a crying shame that the man who should have been there to open the bridge will be denied that privilege because of the petty jealousy of a Premier who was not prepared to see him carry out a function which was obviously his rightful role. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It absolutely appals me that in the very month when this Government in its Budget reduced taxes for all Australians and decided to forgo $1.9 billion in taxation the State Labor Government of Tasmania - 
-This State Government which is formed by the party to which the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  belongs, decided in an unprecedented move to make a savage attack upon the people of Tasmania and the industries of Tasmania by increasing hydro-electricity charges by 25 per cent. Honourable members look stunned. They may well look stunned because an increase of 25 per cent in power charges is absolutely unprecedented in the Commonwealth of Australia. We had the very first generation of electric power in Australia. In fact, it took place in Launceston, Tasmania. We used to be the State which had the cheapest electricity in the Commonwealth. It was used as a great incentive to draw industries to our State. But now we find the State Labor Government declaring war not only on industry but also on the consumers of Tasmania by a mammoth, monstrous, savage 25 per cent increase. The people of Tasmania can see very clearly that the Federal Government in Canberra cuts taxes and the State Labor Government in Hobart raises them by 25 percent. 
It is a most serious matter. Of course, it is not news to the people of Tasmania that the Labor Party comprises the greatest tax bandits in this country. The ghost of Ned Kelly stalks this chamber every time the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  rises to his feet. Heckle and Jeckle- the honourable member for Oxley and the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  are two of the greatest tax bushrangers in the history of this country. The serious implications of this power increase come to the matter of unemployment. I want to draw attention to the fact that when the Whitlam Government was in power Tasmania had the worst unemployment of any State in Australia. Since the Fraser Government came to power Tasmania has now dropped to the third worst. It has been passed by 
New South Wales, under the careful guidance of  Mr Neville  Wran, who has done a wonderful job in achieving the highest unemployment record in New South Wales since the Depression. It will go higher under his careful guidance. The unemployment level in the Northern Territory, too, is worse than Tasmania's. I am very concerned for the major employers in my State, such as the Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Ltd in Hobart, and the Mount Lyell Minning and Railway Company Ltd, which this Government has bailed out once again, thanks to the efforts of the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom).  Over one-third of this company's running costs are in- curred in hydro-electricity charges. I am concerned also for the operations of Comalco Ltd at Bell Bay all these enterprises are endangered. The employment prospects of Tasmanians, which had started to improve as a result of the initiatives taken by our Government in Canberra, have been dealt a very savage blow by the disgraceful action of the socialist Government in Hobart. The Liberal spokesman on employment in the Tasmanian House of Assembly,  Mr Roger  Groom, M.H.A., who is the member for Braddon, has conservatively estimated that 2,000 jobs could be at stake as a result of this savage impost. I should like to go on in detail but time is running against me. I just want to ask: Are the householders and pensioners of Tasmania to switch off their hydro power- their radiators- for 25 per cent of next year? 
-Over recent months in this Parliament, on both sides of this House and on both sides of the Senate, there has been a considerable amount of soul searching and agonising by members of the Australian Parliament concerned to ascertain the true facts of what occurred in East Timor in 1975 and the situation in East Timor at the present time. A number of honourable members of this Parliament in recent months have expressed views indicating that concern. This culminated in a discussion amongst some backbenchers. As a result of that discussion, following a telephone conversation with the Indonesian Embassy on 25 July this year, I prepared and forwarded a submission to the Indonesian Ambassador requesting that visas be made available to permit a parliamentary delegation to visit East Timor on a factfinding mission. With the consent of the Opposition I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a copy of that submission which is dated 26 July. 
-I have now to report that the deputation which waited upon  His Excellency  the Indonesian Ambassador this morning was frankly amazed to be told that members of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia would not be permitted to enter East Timor at this time. The explanation given to us was that we would not be permitted into East Timor until 'normalisation of the economic situation in East Timor'. We indicated to  His Excellency  that that explanation was 'completely unsatisfactory'. I used those words when speaking to  His Excellency  and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  who is present in the chamber, will vouch for the truth of what I say. We were then told that the facilities of East Timor were completely unsatisfactory. I pointed out to  His Excellency  that barely three months ago two members of the United States Congress, including a woman, had been in East Timor.  Senator Bonner,  who was present, indicated that he had been in East Timor at the time of the trouble and, of course, the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  had been there. 
-My friend the honourable member for Hunter reminds me that  Mr Richard  Carleton had been there recently. 
-That is right. When the facilities excuse failed we were told that because representatives of the Australian Embassy in Jakarta had been there and  Mr Carleton  had been there recently it was felt that Australia had had a fair go. I made the point, and I believe I can speak for every member of this Parliament, that if it is good enough for members of the United States Congress to go there it is good enough for members of the Australian Parliament to go there. The time in which I may speak has nearly expired but I want to indicate on this day that I and others are not prepared to leave this matter where it rests. It will proceed. I hope that when the Parliament resumes the week after next there will be an opportunity to thrash out this matter and to ask one simple and fundamental question: If there is nothing to hide, why would there be any objection whatsoever to a visit from the nearest neighbour to Indonesia, the Commonwealth of Australia? The view that I express at this point in time is that I am not going to be deterred, and nor are others. On an appropriate occasion within the next two weeks this matter will be taken further, and I mean that it will be taken further, and people should not be under any delusion that the matter will be allowed to drop. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Bob Ellicott was and is an honourable man. He was a very distinguished lawyer before he came to this Parliament. He served as Solicitor-General under governments both Liberal and Labor. He has a long standing career at the New South Wales Bar. He has the respect, trust and affection of the entire Australian Bar. He is to this day a sincere and genuine person. Nobody who heard him in this House today would doubt his sincerity or integrity. In particular, he was a great friend to Tasmania. You,  Mr Speaker,  when Leader of the Opposition, appointed Bob Ellicott as spokesman for Tasmania in this House when we did not have a single honourable member in the House of Representatives. He carried out his duties on behalf of Tasmania faithfully and well. It is due in no mean order to his achievements that there are now five Liberal members from Tasmania in the House of Representatives. Above all, he was a reforming Attorney-General. He was a courageous and honest AttorneyGeneral. He knew and understood the high traditions of the office of the first law officer of the Commonwealth. He understood the principles concerning the independence of that office. I believe that as Attorney-General he will be remembered in Australia with gratitude for his keen sense of duty, his dedication to his office and the zeal with which he pursued the reform of law in this country for the betterment of all Australians. 
We can compare that with the tinpot performance tonight on the television program  This Day Tonight  of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  himself a lawyer and a Queen's Counsel at that. Watching it I found it hard to convince myself that it was actually a lawyer speaking to the people of Australia. I have said in the past and I feel that many Australians believe that the Leader of the Opposition during his period in this Parliament, including his term as Prime Minister of this country, has made a contribution to the nation's development. But I could not believe that his vanity was such. I could not believe that he was prepared on television tonight not only to denigrate and defame an honourable man but also to place himself above and beyond the law of this land. 
If his performance tonight has to be summed up it can be said that it proved that he has learnt nothing from his defeat in 1975. Tonight's performance proved that he was prepared to go on national television and publicly canvass issues which are at present before a court of law, issues upon which he says- we must accept his wordthat he has a complete defence. Yet he stood over the Supreme Court of New South Wales. He stood over the Full Court of New South Wales with respect to which he has made two applications. He stood over the magistrate who is to hear and determine these charges. It is not my function to say whether there is anything in these charges or not but I will say this: If ever there was a clear case of contempt of court, if ever a man should be brought before the bar of the Supreme 
Court of New South Wales for contempt of court, it is the Leader of the Opposition. 
Well, I will withdraw what I said and rephrase it,  Mr Speaker.  I simply say that if anybody did that in Tasmania he would be before the court within five seconds. I do not believe it an appropriate function of a Leader of the Opposition or indeed a member of this House to go on television and canvass issues which earlier in the day were ruled out of order by yourself,  Mr Speaker,  in this Parliament. The Leader of the Opposition made the point today very clearly that what he could not say in this House he would say outside it. But surely,  Mr Speaker,  there is some responsibility in this matter. Surely in an indirect way his action circumvented the ruling which you gave and which I believe the House would have supported today. I would hope that the Leader of the Opposition rather than fight this case through national television would do everything in his power to ensure it is brought on. At that time he can put his defence and at that time, hopefully, if the evidence is insufficient he will be cleared. But for him to go on television tonight, on the very day that an honourable man- and I believe him to be such- tendered his resignation in sad circumstances is, I believe, less than we should have expected from the Leader of the Opposition. 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been grievously misrepresented, and I seek to make a personal explanation. 
In today's Press the Premier of Queensland is reported as having described those, including myself, who wish to visit East Timor on a parliamentary fact-finding mission as supporting the communists. I state to the House and to the nation that I am now and always have been totally and intransigently opposed to communism wherever it has operated throughout the world. For the first time in my parliamentary career extending over 1 1 years I publicly refer to my religious commitment by simply saying that it is absolutely impossible for a Catholic to also support atheistic communism. 
-I have only one further sentence to add, if I may. I deeply resent the Premier's statements and express the wish that they will not herald in an era of McCarthyism in this country. 
I take pleasure in rising to support this Bill even at this ate hour. I feel somewhat like a rose between two thorns. I have been sandwiched between my friend the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  and that great supporter of uranium rnining and export, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  who I understand is to follow me in this debate. As secretary of the Government Members Federal Affairs Committee I support this legislation because it represents yet another step forward in the introduction of the policy of new federalism to Australia. The stronger we can make our federal system the less likely is the chance that we will ever again see this country inflicted with centralist, socialist, republican government such as we saw during the three years of the Whitlam regime. Whether the Labor Party likes it or not, the plain fact about this legislation is that it appropriates the sum of $80m to the States, being portion of a total of $5,775 billion - 
-$5.775 billion which this year Canberra is making available to the States of Australia. That represents an increase of 13.6 per cent on last year. So any honourable member, such as the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who claims that there has been no real increase at all in the funding of the States is talking through his hat. The increase is 13.6 per cent, considerably above the primary rate of inflation, which at the present moment is 9.2 per cent compared with a disastrous, horrendous 16 per cent when Labor was thrown out of office by the people of Australia on 13 December 1975. 
This Bill authorises the payment of capital grants to the States in 1977-78 totalling $477m. It also provides for an additional amount, an allocation of $238m, representing the first 6 months payment of capital grants for 1978-79. What does that mean to a small State like Tasmania? It means that under this Bill alone the sum of $50m is to be injected  into the coffers of  our State, a State which has never had it so good since the federalist policies of the present Government commenced to be implemented, a State which has done so well that our Labor Premier, who also happens to be the Treasurer of the State, for the last two Budgets has not been able to spend all the money he got from Canberra. He has not been able to spend it! The same man comes to Canberra and cries poverty, yet he is sitting on a goldmine in Hobart. There can be no greater compliment to our federalism policy than that the Premiers cannot spend the money that the States are receiving as a result of that federalism policy. Take the situation of the Premier of New South Wales, earlier today referred to as Nifty Nev, and since his visit to Japan he has been referred to as Nippy Nev. As late as one month before the end of the financial year  Mr Wran  was in a situation where he had $45m unspent in his loan fund. What is he doing sitting on $45m - 
And whingeing, as the honourable member for Evans points out, when his State of New South Wales has the highest unemployment in the Commonwealth? Why is he not prepared to spend that money to alleviate the hardship of the employment situation which his parliamentary colleagues in the Labor Party in this House are complaining about? People on this side of the House are complaining about it too, and we got the secret a few moments ago. He has put aside this money so that when he wants to call an election early next year he will be able to bring it out and say: 'Look what I have got! ' At the moment he is endeavouring to deceive the people of New South Wales and the people of Australia by pretending that he has not got enough money. 
Look at the situation in Tasmania. In a small State like Tasmania, which has unemployment problems, although fortunately they have been alleviated to large extent as a result of the policies of this Government, we have the situation that in the last month of the financial year the Premier found suddenly that he had to spend $41m out of his loan funds to avoid being publicly exposed as having more money in the kitty than he had told the public he had. The reason simply is that the new federalism policy has put more money into the pockets of the State Premiers than anything since Federation. Some of them have the gall to cry poverty when they come here, yet they sit on goldmines in thenStates while men and women walk the streets out of work. We have the situation that the Housing Department, the Department responsible for welfare housing in our State, had to spend $4m in the last month of the financial year. The story is that it did not get through that. We are told of another $lm stacked away here and there. We are told that the real Budget surplus was $8m and not $1.5m which  Mr Neilson  publicly proclaimed.  Mr Neilson  went further and added insult to injury by claiming that the Commonwealth had short changed him by $6.7m.  Mr Neilson  has a great capacity for saying 'I have been short changed', and then when the Commonwealth asks him to put up an argument to the Grants Commission to get some more money he backs off very quickly. Three months ago he said that Tasmania had been short changed by $4m. He had not done his arithmetic. The sad fact is that since  Mr Neilson  has been Premier of Tasmania there has actually been one period of his term in office when the population of our State declined. I cannot blame  Mr Neilson  for the decline in the population of Tasmania, but the fact is that it did happen. In the December quarter of 1976, under a Labor government, the population of Tasmania actually declined. 
We said to  Mr Neilson:  'If you claim that you have not had a fair deal, why do you not go to the Grants Commission?' The Grants Commission was the brainchild of a Tasmanian, Professor Lyndhurst Giblin. It was created by a Tasmanian Prime Minister, Joseph Aloysius Lyons. It was put there for the benefit of Tasmania and the other small States. It is the protector of the small States. It is an institution to which the States can go if they claim injustice. This hypocritical Premier, the most ungrateful Premier in Australia claims that he has been shortchanged, but when challenged to go to the Grants Commission and ask for the money to be made up he does not answer the challenge. The fact is that the Grants Commission, through die facilities of the Commonwealth AuditorGeneral's Office, would discover the sorts of things I have mentioned; that is, that  Mr Neilson  sat on $41m while unemployment was causing human misery in our State, that  Mr Neilson  's departments did not spend their money and that his real Budget surplus was $8m, and not $ 1.5m. He and his two Labor colleagues,  Mr Wran  and the temporary Premier of South Australia  Mr Dunstan,  are all sitting on Budget surpluses and are unable to spend the money they are getting as a result of this Government's federalism policy 
In the few moments remaining to me I would like to comment briefly on some of the contributions made in this debate tonight. The honourable member for Adelaide is a friendly man for whom I have a personal regard, but he made one of the poorest speeches that I have heard in this House on this subject. Then, to our amazement, when he finished his speech the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  came in and gave almost word for word the same speech. It was like an echo. Sitting here, I had the strange feeling that I had heard it before. The voices were different and the faces were different, but the words were the same. The Opposition moved an amendment which is the greatest fraud and charade brought into this House for many years. It claims that this BUI reduces in real terms the funds available to the States. That is a lie. It increases the funds available to the States by 13.6 per cent. 
It is an honour to participate in this Budget debate. I think it is appropriate at this time to mention briefly the extraordinary amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  to the motion for the second reading of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1977-78. The Labor Party contends that the Budget should be condemned because, as it claims, it will intensify and prolong the recession. That is wrong; in fact we are corning out of the recession. Secondly, it claims, in a typical scaretactic manner, that the Budget will increase unemployment. That is demonstrably wrong. Thirdly, it claims that the Budget will have little effect on inflation. I simply draw attention to the fact that inflation has dropped since the Labor Government was thrown out of office. It was then running at 16 per cent and now, as a result of this Government's economic policies, it has dropped to 9.2 per cent. Fourthly, the Opposition claims that the Budget makes regressive changes in the taxation system. On the contrary, the tax changes are the most progressive and fair ever introduced in Australia. Lastly, the Opposition makes the extraordinary claim that in some way the Budget will reduce living standards. I submit that the amendment is unworthy of the Opposition and that it does little to enhance the debate on the Budget. 
For the benefit of people all over Australia who are listening to this debate, it is perhaps appropriate that I point out that this is one of the few debates in the parliamentary year in which a member of this House is permitted to speak on virtually any subject, provided that it comes within the range of the functions of government. I wish to speak on two matters. One is related to foreign affairs and is a matter of concern to me and, I believe, to a large number of other Australians. The second part of my speech will relate to the economy and the achievement of economic recovery as a result of this Government's policies. 
What I am about to say about East Timor I say conscientously. I wish to preface it by making some very brief but general remarks. Firstly, nothing I say amounts in any way to a criticism of this Government's policy on the question of East Timor. In fact, what I am about to say is based on statements made in this House and outside it by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and votes by Australia in the United Nations. I take this opportunity to praise the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the manner in which he has handled a very difficult problem and what I say is against the background of the fact that two out of three Australians oppose the method of the takeover of East Timor by Indonesia. Albeit, Indonesia is an ally of this country we cannot condone what was done in 1975 and is being done right up to the present day. I believe that what I say would be supported by many people who believe in such organisations as the International Red Cross, the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace, Catholic Relief, Community Aid Abroad and a large number of members of the Returned Services League who served alongside the East Timorese in World War II when 50,000 East Timorese out of a total population of Timor of only 500,000 fell. I believe that what I say would be supported by men and women everywhere who believe in human rights. 
The fact that major military activity has occurred and still is occurring in a country one hour's flying time from Darwin poses a serious threat to Australia's national security. This threat to our national security must concern every thinking Australian. Closely related to the military action to which I refer is a fundamental moral question which must arouse Australia's national conscience, a cri de couer, which must stir Australia's moral fibre and to which Australia must undoubtedly respond. I refer of course to the dilemma of Australia's attitude to Indonesia and to East Timor. It was for the above reasons that I and other back benchers of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia deemed it our duty to seek visas to permit us to visit East Timor on a fact finding mission. Before I detail the precise circumstances of our submission for visas and what has occurred since that date I shall for the record briefly retrace my involvement in and my concern for the people of East Timor. 
Like most Australians during 1975 I read the Press reports and followed television news as to what was occurring in East Timor subsequent to the withdrawal of Portugal. Like most Australians I knew little of Fretilin, UDT and Apodeti. The names of the leaders of the respective groups were unfamiliar to me and the details of the civil war immediately preceding the Indonesian intervention were hazy and confused to say the least. As so often happens, we found the groups labelled. For example, Fretilin was almost immediately branded a pro-communist organisation notwithstanding the fact that the overwhelming majority of its members were practising Catholics. As the months of 1975 rolled on there seemed to be a massive public relations campaign to brand Fretilin as a communist organisation, presumably supported by either Russia or China or both, and as such representing some sort of potential threat to Australia. In simple terms, UDT were the goodies and Fretilin were the baddies, and despite our enormous national apathy to what was occurring in East Timor, most people thought at that point that Indonesia might very well annex the small former Portuguese territory. East Timor, which has been in Portuguese hands for over four centuries, contained about 600,000 people and most of us, most Australians, to our eternal shame did not involve ourselves in what was going on. We watched with apathy a major military invasion on 7 December 1975- coincidentally the anniversary of Pearl Harbour- and most of us were ignorant at that time of high level discussions between the leaders of the then Australian Government and the Government of Indonesia which immediately preceded the blood bath of East Timor. The evidence now is overwhelming that to its eternal shame Australia gave the green light to the proposed Indonesian invasion. We all must share the moral culpability which flows from that action, that encouragement, that aiding and abetting, performed on behalf of the Australian people by its then leaders. 
Through 1976 my concern in conscience as to what had happened in East Timor increased commensurately with the reports which started to emerge. The reports of atrocities, mass executions, pack rapes, looting of churches, persecution of priests, famine, deprivation and hunger, malnutrition and disease- whether the result of Indonesian activities or Fretilin activitiesappalled me. That this could go on in a country so close to Australia while our nation slumbered in national apathy and sloth disgusted me. I am neither pro nor anti Indonesia. I am neither pro nor anti Fretilin. I do believe in human values and I do believe in seeking, discovering and revealing the truth and, whatever had happened in East Timor, I was then and still am now determined that history should know. In December 1976 the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace published a report expressing grave concern for the welfare of over 500,000 East Timorese. I could not understand why a reputable international organisation like International Red Cross should be barred from visiting East Timor. I gave vent to my feelings in an article pulblished in the  Australian  on 21 February 1977. I asked then and have asked since why, if there was nothing to hide, a United Nations mission, the International Red Cross or an Austraiian parliamentary delegation could not be permitted to visit East Timor to see the truth for themselves. 
Late in the autumn session of this Parliament, I and a group of backbenchers decided to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether it would be possible for a small parliamentary delegation to visit East Timor on a fact finding mission. The Minister took our submission to Cabinet and Cabinet's judgment was- and in my opinion I should say I believe it was wise judgment- that the Government would neither support nor oppose the proposed visit. To have made the visit an official parliamentary delegation may well have had major implications according to international law. Our Government to its credit has not recognised Indonesia's incorporation of East Timor and I would not have wished to have been party to any act which would have varied that stand to any degree. In short, the Government told us that our proposed delegation would not be a delegation officially representing either the Government or the Parliament but we were free to go ahead and make our own arrangements. 
On 26 July, a formal submission requesting visas was forwarded to  His Excellency Mr Nurmathias,  Ambassador of the Republic of Indonesia to Australia. We were told then the decision would have to be made in Jakarta and we impressed on the Embassy officials the urgency of the matter as we had hoped our visit could eventuate before the Budget session of this Parliament. Day by day our requests for a response to our submission proved fruitless. An obviously embarrassed Indonesian Embassy in Canberra repeatedly had to tell us that no answer had been forthcoming from Jakarta. Finally, six members of this Parliament called upon  His Excellency  in an endeavour to resolve the matter. We presented him with a protest note signed by 80 members of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia, members from both this House and the other place and members from both sides of each House.  His Excellency,  who was at all times courteous and friendly, then gave us the first of a number of explanations emanating from Jakarta as to why we were not to be granted visas. Six or seven varied and, some of them, contradictory explanations were given but the best we can say is that they were all unconvincing and unsatisfactory in the extreme. Coming as they did so soon after a visit by two of our colleagues from the United States Congress- one of them a woman- they represented in our judgment an affront to those of us who without fear or favour wished to visit East Timor to establish the facts. 
Through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I ask this Parliament and the people of Australia: Can we as a nation ignore reports of the slaughter of up to 100,000 of our fellow human beings living in East Timor, whether the slaughter was the result of action by Indonesia, Fretilin or any other group? Surely it is too monstrous and deplorable an act to be swept under the carpet? I should say at this point of tune that unlike the Government of Indonesia, the representatives of Fretilin have said they have no objection whatsoever to any form of international inquiry into atrocities alleged to have been committed by them. Why does Jakarta deny the right to its closest ally in geographical terms to seek and reveal the truth? Can we and the Australian nation ignore reports of mass executions including 2,000 at Lamaknan; 27 women both Chinese and Timorese on the wharf at Dili; 59 men on that same wharf in front of a crowd of 500 which was ordered to count; the murders at the Catholic Church of San Antonio in Dili; the execution of Chinese community leaders in the shop Toko Lay; the murder of a group of Timorese who dared to display an Australian flag from the third floor of a Dili building; the mass murders in the Taibesse area; the slaughter of 500 Chinese at Villaverde; reports of looting of Catholic churches; rounding up truckloads of young girls who were then subjected to mass rape; the desecration of the grave of Father Martins in Maliana; and last but not least, the vile and brutal murder on Thursday 16 October 1975 of five Australian newsmen, three of them shot in cold blood by an officer whose real name or war name was Lieutenant Markos. 
These are but some of the reports which have emerged. I do not know whether they are true, but they are certainly too manifold to be ignored and swept under the carpet. In late 1975 the Indonesians categorically denied that there were any Indonesian troops in East Timor when in fact there were 30,000 of them-many of them supplied with Russian arms and equipment. Two weeks ago I said, and my information was true, that a major military operation was under way in East Timor involving up to 16 battalions of Indonesian troops. You all know the categorical denial from Jakarta, but five days later the Indonesian Defence Minister was forced to publicly admit that Indonesian forces were engaged in what he euphemistically described as a mopping up operation 
I cannot, Australia cannot, the world cannot ignore East Timor and pretend it did not exist. I have at all times sought the truth. I deplore the fact that our parliamentary delegation has had the doors slammed in its face, but one thing above all is certain. The truth will out. The truth will be revealed. At some time in the future, history will recall that it would have been far wiser for Indonesia to have granted us visas, that it would have been far wiser if we had not been obstructed in our search for the truth. But then I suppose the last thing our Indonesian friends would have wished would be for half a dozen Australian parliamentarians to have been present in East Timor at this time in the light of their public admission of this so called mopping up operation. 
The United Nations and the International Red Cross should now be admitted to East Timor. The matter has become far too grave and far too serious for a committee group of Australian parliamentarians. We are not pro-communist. We are not even of the Left. I point out in passing that I do not appreciate being described as procommunist as I was the other day. If it were not so serious, it would be the joke of the year. We sought the truth and it was denied us. The fact that Indonesia is anti-communist does not for one moment justify what, in fact, has been done to us. Hitler was anti-communist yet the world appeased his actions because of its fear of Bolshevism. In 1977 let us not permit a repetition of the crime against humanity which was perpetrated in 1938. In a spirit of goodwill I congratulate honourable members of Her Majesty's Opposition for what they said on this very subject on 14 September. Paragraph 6 of their resolution which was made available to the public- I commend and congratulate them for it- stated: 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. If it becomes necessary or desirable to expand the existing government overseas borrowing program, will the Government do so? 
--I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House censures the honourable member for Oxley for his recent economically subversive public statements which, contrary to the accepted traditions of the Parliament, speculated upon the standing and strength of the Australian dollar upon which the economy of this nation is based, encouraged the likelihood of a major capital outflow from Australia as the direct result of his persistent predictions of an impending devaluation and as a result sought to damage Australia's economic and financial credibility in the eyes of the world at a time when the honourable member for Oxley knew or ought to have known that Australia was in the process of negotiating for overseas loans. 

 -May's Parliamentary Practice provides that if a motion of censure is moved against a government that government shall call the motion of censure on for immediate debate and will not proceed with any other business before the House. May's  Parliamentary Practice  does not provide for that course of action to be taken in the case of a motion of censure against one member of the Parliament. I am delighted on this occasion that the forms of the House have allowed the Opposition to call on the censure motion which I move against the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden). 
Nothing is more precious to the Australian economy than the Australian dollar, upon which the strength of our nation's economy is based. I believe that the Australian dollar is of such importance that at times members of political parties should draw back in their public comment when they know or ought to know that the statements they are about to make could cause serious and, indeed, irreparable damage to the currency of this nation. The honourable member for Oxley is the Opposition's spokesman on economic management. He has occupied the position of Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Australia. If this were his first offence one might be pardoned for thinking that perhaps he ought not to be the subject of censure, but I remind the House and the nation that this is the second time within 12 months that the honourable member has engaged in public statements speculating upon the strength of the Australian dollar. 
I remind honourable members and the people of Australia that last year in the weeks preceding devaluation the honourable member for Oxley made a number of public speculations about the standing of the Australian dollar. He tipped- to use his words- that Blind Freddie and his dog would know that a devaluation was about to occur and during a period of weeks he publicly speculated upon the currency of this country. In the event there was a major capital outflow from Australia in the weeks preceding devaluation last year. How much of that was the direct responsibility of the honourable member for Oxley, how much of it was caused as a direct result of his public statements is very difficult to prove. The facts remain- as Treasury records would demonstratethat in the weeks before the honourable member commenced to speculate about the Australian dollar the level of capital outflow from Australia was comparatively low. In the weeks in 1976 after he commenced to speculate about the level and standing of the Australian dollar, the level of capital outflow increased dramatically. It increased to such an extent that I believe the honourable member for Oxley could claim the credit- if it is credit- for having been responsible for more money flowing out of this country in that period than in any other comparable period and, to that extent, weakening the effect of the eventual decision to devalue the Australian dollar. 
-Of course, as the honourable member for Kingston says, it is to the discredit of the honourable member for Oxley. I must say that I agree with the honourable member for Kingston that the honourable member for Oxley in 1976 was permitted- in fact, he made a welter of it- to speculate persistently about the strength of the Australian dollar. 
What has been the situation during the past few weeks? The honourable member for Oxley, both within this Parliament and outside this Parliament, has repeatedly speculated publicly upon the standing and strength of the Australian dollar. He must have realised that in making cheap political capital out of the Australian dollar, in his undoubted desire to secure leadership of the Australian Labor Party, he has been damaging the very dollar upon which the economy of this country is based. I believe the honourable member for Oxley should be taught once and for all that patriotism should come before party politics and personal ambition. The honourable member should remember that we are all Australians, whether we support the Liberal Party of Australia, the Labor Party or the National Country Party. I am a very ordinary member. Indeed the honourable member for Oxley made the comment a moment ago that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had permitted this matter to be raised by someone he described as an uninfluential member of the back bench. I would be very proud to wear that description because as an ordinary Australian who believes that Australia comes before party politics, I was sickened and disgusted by the statements of the honourable member for Oxley during the last few weeks, in particular last week, in which he used the Australian dollar for his own cheap, personal, political purposes. 
I say that the honourable member did himself a disservice, did his Party a disservice, but, more importantly, did this nation a disservice because he made those statements at a time when he well knew that this Government had publicly stated in the House, through the Prime Minister, that we would defend the Australian dollar. At the very time when this Government determined to defend the Australian dollar at all costs the honourable member for Oxley, by public statements, engaged in public comment which I can only describe as being economically subversive. 
This could not happen in any other Western parliamentary democracy. 
I have been looking through some speeches made in the House of Commons. I have been reading back on speeches made by  Sir Winston  Churchill at the beginning of this century. It is absolutely taboo for politicians in the United Kingdom to speculate publicly about the currency. That is just not done. What sort of situation have we reached in this country in 1977 when the Australian dollar is under attack, when there have been capital outflows from this country, when the honourable member for Oxley knew or ought to have known- to use a legal phrase- that the Government was determined to defend the dollar and was engaging in the process of overseas borrowing for the purpose of defending the dollar, which is the basis of our economy? 
I am not an economist, but in simple terms it has been explained to me like this: Every dollar that has flowed out of this country as a result of the rantings and ravings of the honourable member for Oxley is yet another dollar that this country is going to have to borrow back- to get back into the country- to defend our currency and to maintain its true value. In very simple terms, that means that people like myself, and indeed my children and the children of other Australians, will have to pay the interest bill on the loans which have been increased as a direct result of the irresponsible, subversive and economically sabotaging statements of the honourable member for Oxley. What sort of situation have we reached in this country when in the course of a number of weeks a member of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia will make political capital out of the Australian dollar upon which he knows the economy of this nation is based? 
-The honourable member for Griffith reminds me that the honourable member for Oxley is not just using this for political purposes; he is trying to buy a job. In fact, what he was doing was to weaken the Australian dollar in order to bring down our financial and economic credibility in the eyes of the world. We have a triple A credit rating. Australia I believe is economically and financially respected by many other countries. The honourable member for Oxley ratted on Australia when he decided to make cheap political capital out of the Australian dollar. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to make a personal explanation in respect of certain statements that have been made. 
I have most certainly been misrepresented by the honourable member for Grayndler (  Mr Antony  Whitlam). A few minutes ago the honourable member for Grayndler distinguished himself by saying- I noted it in the other room where I was listening to the debatethat the motion moved yesterday was promoted by grandstanding Government back benchers preoccupied with their parliamentary entitlement, having served only one term in this Parliament. The reference was clearly to me and I just draw the attention of the honourable member for Grayndler and other honourable members to the fact that I have served two terms in another Parliament and, thanks to the previous honourable member for Grayndler, that time counts. I am not concerned about my pension, but I am concerned that the honourable member for Grayndler can cast such a slur on Government back bench members. 
-I am bitterly disappointed that the Labor Party has chosen to hinder and to restrain with bureaucratic red tape the actions and discretions of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  who will have the honour of administering this magnificent piece of legislation. On the one hand, the Labor Party says that it supports the legislation and welcomes it. On the other hand, it endeavours to encumber with pettifogging red tape a Minister who might find that, at the end of the prescribed period, he has gone a few dollars over $10m in helping the non-government schools of Australia. What a terrible crime that would be! I should be delighted if the figure was $1 10m. For the Labor Party, on the one hand, to say that it supports the legislation and, on the other hand, to put forward such a mingy and miserable amendment as this, brought into this chamber no doubt on the instructions of those above because the same amendment was brought forward in another place, quite frankly does a disservice to the legislation. 
I noted with interest the remarks of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  one of the great thespians of the Parliament. In a stirring speech a few moments ago, he urged support for the legislation and said that the Opposition would like it on the statute books as soon as possible. Yet, out of loyalty no doubt, he felt it was his duty to support his colleague, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  The Labor Party seems to have overlooked the fact that this Bill came into the Parliament as the direct result of a recommendation to the Federal Government by the Schools Commission. I simply draw attention to the fact that nowhere did the Schools Commission seem to indicate that, in its judgment, there was any necessity for an amendment such as this. In reality I ask why on earth the Labor Party thinks it is so necessary for the Parliament to know within three sitting days what schools have been given permission to borrow and by what amount the Federal Government's guarantee has exceeded the $ 10m limit? 
Of course it has been guaranteed the loan but it wants to have the figures. Why does the Labor Party want them? I hope the Labor Party does not want them for a mischievous purpose. I hope it does not want them to be able to stand up and say in the Parliament that the amount of $10m has been exceeded by a certain amount and that loans were guaranteed in particular schools in particular electorates. I hope it does not want it for that purpose. What really is the need for this amendment? The Commonwealth Government's record in relation to capital grants or the guaranteeing of loans for non-government schools- and this is brand new legislation- is not as good as it ought to be but it is considerably better than the terrible record of the State governments with respect to capital grants for non-government schools. 
In opposing the amendment moved by the Opposition I want to say that the essence of this legislation is to provide a brand new facility to the non-government schools of Australia; that is, that the Commonwealth will guarantee loans to enable them to carry out building and to meet their commitments. It does not seem to worry members of  Her  Majesty's Opposition, members of the Labor Party that one out of every five children, of all the boys and girls of Australia, is today being educated at non-government schools. The Opposition does not seem to think that any restraint, any restriction, any bureaucratic red tape which will make the Commonwealth government less able to give guarantee assistance to a much needed sector of the community is bad. In the case of this Bill we are talking about guaranteeing the non-government school sector $10m. That is all. The moment that figure is exceeded the Labor Party wants to know of it within three sitting days. 
In my opinion this legislation does three things which are unique and which I believe are commendable. It will give schools which do not have the advantage of institutional backing an opportunity to borrow money. For the first time in this country schools which do not have what I would describe as wealthy institutional backing will be able to borrow. In anybody's language that is a move towards providing great social justice. Secondly, this Bill will permit more favourable borrowing terms to be negotiated. The honourable member for Hughes said a short time ago that the Commonwealth Government is becoming the lender of last resort. He meant to say that it is becoming the guarantor of last resort. That would have been correct. But it is surprising to me that he said it in such a disparaging way. I do not regard this as disparaging. I think the Commonwealth Government ought to be congratulated for doing so. Thirdly, the loan guarantees will be available for projects which while approved in principle by the Commonwealth may not in fact receive a grant. They may not be entitled to a grant. Even though there may be no entitlement the Commonwealth might be able to assist by guaranteeing the loan. What will be the practical effect of this? It will mean that the $24m which the Commonwealth made available in the financial year 1976-77 in fact will potentially be extended by 33W per cent. The availability of the additional $10m guaranteed loans is tantamount to a 33  Vi  per cent availability of capital. 
Well, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith - 
-I beg the honourable member's pardon. With respect he made a farce of the debate. He was hypocritical enough to come in here and say that he and the Labor Party supported the legislation but then put up an amendment which is going to make its passage difficult. The contribution of the States is only 10 per cent of that of the Commonwealth. That is only $2. 7m. In real terms this legislation will mean that $34.7m will be available from the Commonwealth by grants and guaranteed loans. I say in conclusion that the amendment is bad. It is pet.tyfogging and bureaucratic and it was not moved in good faith. I say further that the States should really honour their obligations to the nongovernment schools. At least they should follow the lead shown by this Government. I hope that by this time next year the States will recognise that if they do not come to the party and really co-operate with the capital costs of nongovernment schools we will reach the crisis which the honourable member for Lilley predicted and within the next few years we will not have the availability of educational facilities in the nongovernment school sector which this country, in my opinion, should be committed to retain. One out of five Australian children is being educated in that system. If the non-government school system collapses the education system of Australia goes down with it. 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
-Any person hearing the speeches just made by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  and the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  would not contribute one million cents in total to the funds of the Australian Labor Party. The honourable member for Blaxland made an incredible back-stabbing speech. The movement of fortunes in the Australian Labor Party over the last three weeks has been very interesting. We saw the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  under attack in his own party because of ill-considered and, quite frankly, irresponsible statements about East Timor and uranium. Last week we saw the potential leader, the pretender to the throne, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  censured by this House for unpatriotic, seditious and economically traitorous statements about the Australian dollar. 
-Yes, in deference to you,  Mr Acting Speaker.  I did not use the phrase 'economic traitor' before; I used the word 'traitor'. The point is that we are now seeing the run of the honourable member for Blaxland. 
I did,  Mr Acting Speaker.  I said that in deference to you I would withdraw. It is interesting to see that this week we have the run of the honourable member for Blaxland. In view of the battering taken by the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Oxley, the honourable member for Blaxland thinks he can make a midnight run - 
-The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  wants to be  Deputy  Leader to the honourable member for Blaxland. We have not previously seen them scrambling over bodies that are still warm, not even dead. The honourable member for Werriwa still lives and breathes. The honourable member for Oxley still lives and breathes. The honourable member for Blaxland wants to become leader, and the honourable member for 
Port Adelaide wants to become  deputy  leader. When the honourable member for Blaxland has made a contribution to this country anywhere near half as substantial as that of  Mr Andrew  Grimwade, let him stand in this place and condemn that person. I have never heard a more scurrilous attack. 
As my colleague the honourable member for St George points out, tonight the honourable member for Blaxland was not really attacking  Mr Andrew  Grimwade; he was sticking the knife fair into the middle of the back of the honourable member for Werriwa, Edward Gough Whitlam, because it was the honourable member for Werriwa who gave evidence before the Committee on Official Establishments. In fact, it was largely as a result of his evidence that the Committee brought down the recommendation that it did. Now we see blatant backstabbing, not behind closed doors in that funny room across the corridor. Honourable members opposite are coming into the chamber now one by one. Which one is Casca, which one is Cassius? The honourable member for Blaxland wielded a knife tonight hoping to get in on the grouter with the honourable member for Werriwa and the honourable member for Oxley. The honourable member for Blaxland and the honourable member for Port Adelaide fight over the body before it is even cold. 
I do not need to refer to the advertisement because, quite frankly, it is one of the greatest jokes we have seen. It is an absolutely incredible production. I guess the advertisement cost the Labor Party about $lm. I predict that it will come up with a deficit, which was par for the course for the years 1972-75 when the Labor Party was in office. Each year there was a deficit. Each year it was twice as large as the year before. One thing I believe- I believe it more than anything else that has been said tonight- is that we are seeing now the internal dissensions of the Australian Labor Party as it splits asunder under the pressure of trying to keep up a permanent charade of false and deceitful opposition to a government which is getting this country back onto the road to recovery. The strain is telling on honourable members opposite as they try each day to tell lies to the Australian public about the inflation rate, about the strength of the dollar and about the unemployment situation. They cannot take it when they are challenged. They stand condemned. 
-The Minister for Transport will be aware of the preparation of a detailed and exciting report by Boeing Marine Systems on the feasibility of a daily passenger jetfoil service across Bass Strait by 1979 with the possibility of services being operated by the Australian National Line, P. and O. and IPEC. With the likelihood of a five hour crossing bringing an extra 60,000 people to Tasmania each year, will the Federal Government do everything in its power to support the establishment of such a service? 
-Like my colleague the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  who spoke earlier in this debate, I wish to direct a few remarks to the inquiry into the structure of industry and the employment situation in Tasmania.  (Quorum formed).  I draw to the attention to the people of Australia, particularly the people of Tasmania, that there are now six members of the Australian Labor Party in the House and the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  has successfully prevented me from speaking for three minutes on the subject of Tasmania. Of course, this is not surprising because the Labor Party has been conducting - 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! No point of order arises. 
-This is part of the hate Tasmania campaign that the Labor Party is running at the moment. The Labor Party never has forgiven and it will never forgive Tasmania for returning five Liberal members of the House of Representatives for Tasmania in December 1975. We will hold those five seats at the next election because we are a united team determined to do something for Tasmania and in particular to restore our State from the damage caused to it during the Whitlam years of 1972-75. 
That the question be now put. 
-The Government took a very positive initiative to see what could be done about the structure of industry, and particularly the unemployment problem in Tasmania. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Adelaide has moved that the question be now put. I put the question: All those in favour say aye; against, no. I think the noes have it. Is a division required? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I call the honourable member for Denison. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, four minutes of my time have been deliberately taken up by the tactics of the Labor Party and the honourable member for Adelaide. I wish to talk about Tasmania. I wish to talk also about some of the things that this Government has done for Tasmania and some of the things I believe ought to be done for Tasmania. 
One of the most notable differences in the attitude of the present Government to Tasmanian industry and to the State of Tasmania in general is that for the first time this Government was prepared to bring in a new federalism policy under which our State would get a fair go. It is very relevant to note- and I believe this was referred to by  Sir Bede  Callaghan in his report- that this Government has given more to Tasmania and is giving more to Tasmania than any other government since Federation. I think it is a matter of record that this Government not only believes in federalism but also believes in the smallest State getting a fair go, contrary to the policies of our opponents and contrary to the treatment that they meted out to Tasmania between 1972 and 1975. 1 refer briefly to the following facts: Tasmania received per head of population from the 1976-77 Budget $1,076.82 under the Liberal federalism policy introduced by the Government, compared with, for example, the sum of $6 1 5.8 1 per head for Victoria. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)Order!  I remind the honourable member for Denison that we are discussing the estimates for the Department of Industry and Commerce, the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs and the Department of Productivity. I suggest that he direct his remarks towards the subject of those three departments. 
I appreciate that,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  In fact I am commenting on the report of  Sir Bede  Callaghan which was prepared as a direct result of the initiatives of those three departments. I am simply referring to the fact that financially Tasmania is getting a better deal today than it has received since Federation. Let me talk in some little detail about the initiatives of this Government compared with those of the previous Government in endeavouring to assist Tasmanian industry and to assist Tasmania to stand on an equal footing with her sister States. Prior to 1975 the previous Administration had brought in a very limited, paltry, miserly freight equalisation scheme which was subject to certain conditions, namely, that the freight had to be shipped from the northern Tasmanian ports. By taking that action it virtually signed the death warrant of the port of Hobart. This Government extended the scheme to the whole of Tasmania. It is only because of that action that the port of Hobart is able to survive today. In fact it is picking up. In fact it is recovering from the almost mortal blow struck at it by the Whitlam Government. It is a matter of record that this year the sum of $23m has already been budgeted for both north-bound and south-bound freight in and out of Tasmania. That has been the greatest lift to Tasmania, Tasmanian industry and Tasmanian productivity which could have ever occurred for Tasmania. The point I emphasise and to which  Sir Bede  Callaghan referred is that this Government has responded to the call. This Government has provided special assistance to Tasmanian industry. According to  Sir Bede  Callaghan 's report, this Government is making a genuine attempt to assist in the development of industry in Tasmania. The new freight equalisation scheme is virtually an open cheque and at least gives Tasmania a reasonable opportunity of competing on an equal basis with its sister States. But what more should be done and could be done by this Government and by the Tasmanian Government to assist Tasmania? In the remaining two minutes that are available to me- I thank the Opposition for again stifling my endeavours to speak on Tasmania's behalf in this Parliament- let me say that there is a very strong case - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member is not raising a point of order. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I claim to have been grossly misrepresented by the honourable member for Port Adelaide as usual. You called me,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I was on the printed list to speak in this debate. I answered your call to speak, and ever since I got to my feet golliwogs like the honourable member for Port Adelaide have been trying to prevent me from putting a case on behalf of Tasmania. The fact is that members of the Opposition simply cannot take it. The people of Tasmania know that the Government does care for Tasmania, whereas the Government of which the honourable member for Port Adelaide was a supporter did nothing but bash Tasmania during the three years it was in office. Because I have less than 30 seconds left in which to speak, I might now be prevented from saying the sorts of things I wanted to say, but by heaven I will get a chance to say them in the next few weeks. I will get an opportunity to bring home some truths about what the Australian Labor Party did to Tasmania, how it brought Tasmania to its knees and how it took every conceivable opportunity to belt it into the ground. Only last week the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  complained in this place that Tasmania was getting too much housing assistance from the Commonwealth. That is the attitude that is part of the hate Tasmania campaign of the Labor Party. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Earlier tonight when I attempted to perform my parliamentary duty to speak out on behalf of Tasmania and the electors of Denison I was deliberately prevented from doing so. In the time available to me now may I make a reference to certain recommendations in the report of  Sir Bede  Callaghan which I believe are of very great importance to Tasmania. As I said earlier, Tasmania is indeed fortunate. It has had a strong team working for it over the last two years. I firmly believe that some of the recommendations of  Sir Bede  Callaghan are worthy of very serious consideration, and I hope they will be taken forward by both the Commonwealth Government and the Tasmanian State Government. On page 109 of this report,  Sir Bede  Callaghan made this general remark which I believe is of considerable importance to our State: 
In view of the relatively low level of Commonwealth employment and direct expenditure in Tasmania, there appears some scope for an examination of the Commonwealth's administrative activities in Tasmania. Such a review should endeavour to identify those Commonwealth administrative functions which are normally located in the States but which have not been located in Tasmania. I am told the Commonwealth's Committee on the Location of Australian Government Employment could be a suitable forum for such an examination. 
On page 121 of the report,  Sir Bede  made this observation: 
A decision to bring Commonwealth per capita employment (including defence forces) to the same per capita levels in Tasmania as the other States would involve an increase of approximately 5,000 jobs directly and would stimulate up to an equivalent amount in various other industries indirectly as a result of increased capital (construction) and consumer spending. 
So we are talking about a potential 10,000 extra jobs for Tasmania. That is the message which I was prevented from giving to this House and to the people of Australia when the proceedings were being broadcast earlier today. 
I am delighted that since the Callaghan report came out this Government, which does not only promise but indeed performs, has made a clear commitment that the construction of the $8. 5m Antarctic base complex at Kingston will proceed. That project on its own, with the indirect benefits which will flow from the building of houses, roads and other necessary facilities, will give employment to 300 people in the Denison electorate over the next two and a half years. When the complex is completed it will involve the employment directly of 1 50 to 200 people. My colleague the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  has secured for Tasmania the establishment of the maritime college in his electorate. I have no doubt that that also will provide a very major incentive to development and to employment in northern Tasmania. 
There are two areas where I believe Tasmania should receive greater Commonwealth spending. They are in the fields of defence and training. I support very strongly the moves of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development for the establishment of a Regular Army battalion in Tasmania. I would be quite content if it went to northern Tasmania because I believe we are entitled to have that particular Army establishment. From the point of view of the south, I want to put the case as strongly as I can that we should have a naval destroyer permanently based in Tasmania and in a position to carry out necessary surveillance of the 200-mile limit which will apply not merely around the main island of Tasmania but around Macquarie Island and which will extend down to the Antarctic. We also ought to have a Royal Australian Air Force flight stationed in Tasmania or flying to Tasmania for the purposes of surveillance. 
Last but not least, in the limited time available to me I want to publicly propose for the first time that the Forestry and Timber Bureau presently in Canberra and split between two departmentsthe Department of Primary Industry and the Department of Industry and Commerce- should be re-united and moved to Tasmania. No State in the Commonwealth is more competent in this respect or more bounteous in forest timber than Tasmania. I believe it is ridiculous to have the Forestry and Timber Bureau in Canberra which, with all due respect, can hardly claim to have a flourishing timber industry when a State like Tasmania would be the ideal place for this to be established. I hope the Government will seriously consider the proposition. 

 -Mr Speaker, I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That Australia joins with and supports the United States of America, France, Britain, the Netherlands and a significant and substantial committee of Polish dissidents in condemning the puppet trial in Prague of the Czech proponents of Charter 77, Vaclav Havel, Jiri Lederer, Ota Ornest and Frantisek Pavlicek and the further arrest of Pavel Kohout and the further secret police interrogation of former Czech Foreign Minister, Jiri Haiek and calls on the free world to support the campaign of those fighting for the restoration of human rights in Czechoslovakia. 
-In 1962, on the very first occasion on which I had the honour to accept a brief as counsel for the defence in a criminal trial in the Supreme Court of Tasmania, a very wise old lawyer gave me some very sound advice. He said: 'Carefully study the prosecution case. Examine in detail the elements of the charge and the character and standing of the prosecution witnesses. Are they reputable and truthful witnesses? 
-Do they come to the court with clean hands? 
-Are they the sort of people in whom you could place your confidence and trust? 
-Are they witnesses of truth? 
-Can you rely - 
-The fundamental principles of natural justice are indeed one of the most vital cornerstones of any society which operates under a system of parliamentary democracy and the rule of law. Very recently, the High Court of Australia reaffirmed that the principles of natural justice are applicable to administrative tribunals and not in fact restricted to the courts of the land. Recently, in Tasmania, we have seen an injustice very similar to that described earlier this evening by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in a situation where two young, dedicated, hard-working trade union leaders have been persecuted, convicted and crucified by the Tasmanian Labor Party. 
The two persons concerned are  Mr Robert  Watling and  Mr Peter  Imlach. These two men were charged with the offence of aiding and espousing the cause of a proscribed organisation, to wit the National Civic Council. The State Labor Party set up a tribunal to hear these charges, and it was significant that the  chairman  of that tribunal was the  president  for Tasmania of the Australia-USSR Friendship Society, an organisation that is also regarded by many Labor supporters as one which, if not proscribed, certainly ought to be. 
Watling and Imlach were given a trial that can only be described as a sham, by a kangaroo court and I have expressed the view that on the evidence that has been published no jury in Australia, perhaps in the world, would have convicted them. The evidence basically was photographic. Three of the witnesses called had never in fact seen the persons they were identifying. There was evidence from one other person, who in law could only be described as an accomplice. As such any jury would have been instructed not to convict on his evidence for to do so would be dangerous in the extreme. 

 Mr Imlach and  Mr Watling  subsequently sought direction from State Australian Labor Party Council as to the method whereby they should appeal. There was confusion about the 2 1-day rule. Far from getting the assistance as to how they should go about their appeal, the State ALP Council proceeded on the spot to dismiss their appeals without hearing one word in favour of them and to direct further that they would have no right of appeal either to the Federal 
Executive or to the Federal Council, a right incidentally which was given to  Senator Brian  Harradine when he, too, was expelled on similar evidence and as a result of similar machinations by the pro-Communist Left in the Australian Labor Party. Within five days of the expulsion of Watling and Imlach, they being the Secretary and the Minute Secretary of the Tasmanian Trades and Labor Council, there was a secret visit to Hobart- last Thursday- by  Mr Pat  Clancy who is the  President  of the Socialist Party of Australia which is the Moscow-line Communist Party. He was accompanied by  Mr George  Crawford and three other comrades. They met secretly in what they described publicly as a move to re-unify the Tasmanian trade union movement. 
In the short time available to me I take the opportunity to quote what the leading article in today's Hobart  Mercury  says about this matter. I feel it will alert honourable members, including decent members on the other side, who are opposed to Communism, as to what is happening in the State of Tasmania. The  Mercury  says: 
The TTLC and its predecessor, the Tasmanian Trades Hall Council, for many years have been a bastion of industrial moderation. This does not mean the TTLC is a tame cat organisation or a friend of the bosses. There have been many occasions when there have been deep differences between what employers and the TTLC want. By and large these differences have been resolved with commonsense and responsibility. The record of some of the unaffiliated unions has not been as impressive. 
Whether the expulsion of two leading members of the TTLC,  Mr Peter  Imlach and  Mr Robert  Watling from the ALP was part of the campaign to organise a Left-wing takeover or the TTLC is arguable. Certainly there is strong evidence to support the contention. 
There can be little question that the campaign against the two Right-wingers for involvement with the proscribed NCC was master-minded by those who aid and espouse extreme Left-wing philosophies which are so close to those of the proscribed Communist Party that it is virtually impossible ibr those not versed in political semantics to distinguish. And it seems more than coincidental that so soon after the expulsion interstate Communist and extreme Left heavyweights attended a meeting in Hobart ostensibly to 'reunify' the Tasmanian trade union movement. 
Among those who attended this meeting and who will no doubt assist in moves to restore 'unity, cohesion, and effectiveness to the union movement' were the Moscow-line Communist Party boss  Mr Pat  Clancy - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! 

My time has expired but I will have an opportunity later to finish, I hope. 
I am amazed to hear the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  tonight try to justify the decision of his party and the travesty of justice it committed against  Senator Harradine  who was expelled from his party on perjured evidence and the established lies of paid informers. I have no brief for  Senator Harradine, Mr Watling  or  Mr Imlach.  I have a brief for the principles of natural justice in this country. It grieves me that reputable members of the Australian Labor Party have the gall to come into this chamber tonight and defend something that is morally and legally indefensible. To wrap it up in a speech of tribute to Cardinal Gilroy, with the greatest of respect, did less than justice to what the honourable member ought to have said about the late and great Cardinal Gilroy. The honourable members tried to bring him in three days after his death in moral justification for what the Labor Party did to  Senator Harradine, Mr Wading  and  Mr Imlach. 
One of the Senate colleagues of the honourable member for Port Adelaide went on record as saying that he would prefer to be associated with communists and would prefer to have communists in the Labor Party than to have members of the National Civic Council in the Party. This is indicative of the growing influence of the pro-communist Left in the Labor Party. It has been taken over lock, stock and barrel. We all know that in reality the pro-communist Left wants to get control of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council. If it does that, the procommunist Left will get control of the Federal Executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Is that what the Labor Party wants? The honourable member for Port Adelaide nods his head in agreement. That is absolutely shameful. If he stands for the old style Chifley Labor, the good strong anti-communist Labor, he should condemn people such as Pat Clancy, George Crawford and the communists who are going into Tasmania under his nose and with his consent and endeavouring to take over the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council. The Labor Party has already got rid of the Premier of Tasmania. He could not take any more. He was fed up - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! It being 1 1 p.m., the House stands adjourned until tomorrow at the ringing of the bells at an hour not earlier than 2.55 p.m. 
I spoke last night about the expulsion from the Tasmanian branch of the Australian Labor Party of  Mr Watling  and  Mr Imlach  and of the continuing power grab by the pro-communist Left in Tasmania which has already taken over the State Branch of the ALP and which is endeavouring to take over control of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council. Tasmanians of course will react very strongly to the intrusion of mainland industrial gangsters such as  Mr Pat  Clancy, Mr George Crawford and others who flew into our State secretly last Thursday- officially and publicly to reunify the Tasmanian trade union movement. In fact they are seeking to split it asunder, to create industrial disruption and to create industrial sabotage which our State has suffered for far too long by far too many mainland industrial gangsters doing things which are designed in every conceivable way to use Tasmania as the example for punishment and the example for victimisation. We have been cut off as a result of air strikes, by air traffic controllers, tanker drivers, refuellers and the like. 
I want to say something about the cowardice of the Tasmanian Government in the face of procommunist left wing victimisation of a young apprentice named Chris Symons who works for the tasmanian Railways at the Launceston railway workshops in the electorate of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman).  This young man is an apprentice. It has been traditional- it has been a universally accepted principle in this country for years- that apprentices shall not be compelled to join trade unions and shall not be compelled to go on strike. People who have been unionists, such as myself, know that to be the fact. What happened to this young man? He was heavied by the pro-communist left operatives of the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union and told that he must join the AMWSU. He was told that if he did not join, all the equipment on which he worked would be declared black; he would be declared black; he would be victimised. Together with a number of his friends he appealed to the State Government for some direction. Dithering Doug, the  Deputy  Premier of Tasmania, has not been prepared to come forward and defend the right of this young apprentice not to join a union. He is cowering before the pro-communist Left. He will not stand up for the right; nor will the Government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! It being 1 1 p.m. the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until 10.30 a.m. tomorrow. 
-On 4 October this year in this House I moved: 
That this House censures the honourable member for Oxley for his recent economically subversive public statements which, contrary to the accepted traditions of the Parliament, speculated upon the standing and strength of the Australian dollar upon which the economy of this nation is based, encouraged the likelihood of a major capital outflow from Australia as the direct result of his persistent predictions of an impending devaluation and as a result sought to damage Australia's economic and financial credibility in the eyes of the world at a rime when the honourable member for Oxley knew or ought to have known that Australia was in the process of negotiating for overseas loans. 
As a result of the suspension of Standing Orders that censure motion against the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  was carried overwhelrningly, the vote being 67 votes in favour and only 27 Labor votes against. So the honourable member for Oxley was censured for making statements which were 'economically subversive', and I am quoting from the resolution. In the debate the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  who is a well known litigant in this country, sought to act as counsel for defence for the honourable member for Oxley and on page 1558 of  Hansard  of 4 October 1977 the Leader of the Opposition, referring to certain economic matters in October last year, is reported as having said: 
The honourable member for Oxley (  Mr Hayden  ) gave the prescription which would avoid the mischief which this Government was bringing about. It was going on again in August and September of this year. Once again the honourable member for Oxley gave the prescription which would cure the mischief. 
He talked as though the honourable member for Oxley were a doctor. As I will demonstrate in a few moments, within the last 24 hours the Leader of the Opposition has acted as though he were the Medical Board because he has just deregistered the doctor. A little later in that speech, the Leader of the Opposition said - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I accept your advice. I intended to quote two other passages in which the Leader of the Opposition praised the honourable member for Oxley and said what a great man he was on economic matters; how he had saved the country previously; how the country owed him a debt of honour; and how the country could look forward to taking his advice for many years to come. Of course it came as a very great surprise to Australia and, no doubt, the rest of the world when last night the Leader of the Opposition, in answer to a direct question, which incidentally emanated from a Tasmanian, proclaimed that the doctor,  'Dr' Hayden,  the doctor of economic recovery in this country had been deregistered and had been banished from economic matters. Heaven forbid, but the man whom this House convicted of economic subversion- we know what those words mean,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  is actually to be put in charge of the defence of this country. I find it inconceivable that any man condemned by this House for economic subversion could be regarded as a fit or proper person - 
-They are not the words. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I accept your ruling, of course, but I am quoting from the motion which the House passed. 
I accept that ruling,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I have not called the honourable member for Oxley an 'economic traitor', words which I withdrew on a previous occasion. I used the words 'economic subversion'. I simply make the point that it seems inconceivable to me that any man who has been censured by this House in accordance with the words of that motion, which is indeed public property, could even be considered to be put in charge of the defence of this country. It might be an indication that, on this matter, the Leader of the Opposition has recognised the wisdom of the decision of the House of 4 October to censure the honourable member for Oxley. I suggest that there is a clear and demonstrable link between the Parliament's censure of the honourable member for Oxley and his removal from the post of economic spokesman for the Labor Party. Quite clearly in the forthcoming election campaign he cannot speak with any authority on economic matters, because his leader has publicly indicated that if Labor came to power the honourable member for Oxley would not be permitted to hold an economic post. 
-The Government is indeed amazed and bitterly disappointed at the speeches of the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  and the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  on this important legislation. Indeed, we take exception to some of the comments made by the honourable member for Blaxland and the honourable member for Darling. One would have hoped that, rather than the Labor Party adopting a dog in the manger attitude towards this legislation, the legislation would have been dealt with on its merits and without some of the gratuitous comments which came from members of the Labor Party. But we must never forget that this is hate-Tasmania time in this Parliament. Only last week the  Deputy 
Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  actually complained in this House that the Commonwealth Government had been too generous to Tasmania and had given us too much housing assistance. We find repeatedly that at any opportunity to knock, to hit or to hate Tasmania honourable members opposite rise to their feet with some relish. I am particularly disappointed in the honourable member for Blaxland - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member knows that that is not a point of order. 
-The honourable member for Blaxland, in a very poor - 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Has the Government any proposals to increase Government spending suddenly by an amount in excess of $2 billion as certain people have been suggesting? What effect would such a proposal have on the deficit, on inflation and on taxation rates applicable to Australians? 
I want to take two minutes to point out the absolute contradiction between the speeches of the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  and the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  The honourable member for Burke accused the Government of setting up a propaganda machine and giving the Minister extraordinarily wide powers under which he could influence the media of this country. He was immediately followed by the honourable member for Newcastle, whose bitter complaint was that the Government has not put enough chains and shackles upon private enterprise. I submit to the Committee that the two arguments are inconsistent. They are totally contradictory. The significant point is that neither of them has any merit whatsoever. 
The claim coming from a member of the Australian Labor Party that the Government is trying to set up a propaganda machine is a fatuous suggestion and will be recognised as the joke of the year by the people listening to the broadcast of these proceedings. If ever a government endeavoured to set up a propaganda machine it was the Whitlam Government between 1972 and 1975. It was thrown out of office in 1975. The best propaganda machine in Australia now is that which has been set up by the South Australian Premier. 
I deal finally with the remarks of the honourable member for Newcastle. The figures he quoted were taken totally out of context. With respect, he did not seem to appreciate that the 40 per cent he was quoting was 40 per cent on 25c. That, of course, is a gross figure. The actual return to the shareholders, as he would find if he took the time and trouble, is probably one-tenth of the 40 per cent. Unlike the honourable member for Newcastle and wealthy honourable members opposite, I do not own a share in a single company; but I know that because it says in the paper there is a 40 per cent dividend it does not mean that at the end of the financial year the shareholder will get a 40 per cent return on this investment. In fact, I am told that the going rate of return on these types of shares, particularly shares in country television and radio stations, is minimal. Indeed, the revenues of these companies have considerably decreased as a result of the decision of government to eliminate the advertising of cigarettes. The Bill may not be perfect. In fact, very few Bills that go through this Parliament are perfect. But to claim that it is the vehicle for setting up a propaganda machine is a nonsense. That suggestion should not have been put forward by the honourable member for Burke. The honourable member even suggested that people might think of the Minister as a latter day Goebbels. The contradictory claim by his colleague from Newcastle is equally without ° foundation. My respectful submission therefore is that the two honourable members opposite have contradicted each other and destroyed their arguments, which in any event were put up as straws in the wind and would have no validity and no support in the Australian community. 
-As the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has just pointed out, the Bill does propose certain amendments affecting the permissible minimum and maximum number of members of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The legislation is required now because in the absence of a further appointment, which as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has just said would be in breach of the long standing convention when an election is pending, and the Government is not intending to make such an appointment at this stage, the number of members after 30 November would be one below the permissible minimum number of four members. Consequently, the opportunity is being taken to amend the legislation and also to give effect to the Government's decision that the minimum number should now be two and the maximum number should be four. I must, on behalf of the Government in leading for the Government at this stage of the debate, refute the proposition that this amendment in any way represents a downgrading of the Commission. I do wish to take a little time to deal with the activities of the Commission and to demonstrate quite clearly that the amendment in no way downgrades the Commission. On the contrary, the Government pursuant to its federalism policy places great store on the standing of the Commission as an integral part of the federal system of this country. It is useful to recognise that when the Commission was set up in 1934 it was essentially the brainchild of a Tasmanian, Professor Lyndhurst Giblin. It basically was set up to provide a means of assistance for the smaller States so that there would be some basis of equality within the Commonwealth. Section S of the Grants Commission Act says: 
References in this Act to the grant of special assistance to a State are references to the grant of financial assistance to a State for the purpose of making it possible for the State, by reasonable effort, to function at a standard not appreciably below the standards of other States. 
I want to refer to the fact that in 1973 the previous Administration brought in amendments to the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act of 1 934 and we now see that legislation replaced by the Grants Commission Act 1973. This legislation provided for the continuation by the new Commission of inquiries into applications by States for grants of special financial assistance and extended the role of the Commission to include inquiries into applications by regional organisations or local government bodies. In other words, as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith said, the activities of the Commission were extended to include local government under an Act of this Parliament in 1973. That Act provided for an enlarged Commission comprising a full-time  Chairman  and from four to six members who could be appointed on a fulltime or a part-time basis. The maximum number of members was increased from six to seven under an amendment to the legislation brought in by the present Government in June 1975. The  Chairman  and the two part-time members constitute a State division of the Commission and perform the Commission's traditional role of inquiry into applications by a State for a grant of special financial assistance. I just pause at this time to say that although in the forty-fourth report of the Commission which was recently presented in this Parliament the only claimant State was Queensland it is not to be assumed that other States, including Tasmania, will not at some future time once again become claimant States. As I said, the  Chairman  and the two parttime members constitute a State division of the Commission and perform the Commission's traditional role of inquiry into applications by a State for a grant of special financial assistance. 
The other members of the Commission- and this is relevant to the comments made by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith- were appointed on a full-time basis and, together with the  Chairman,  were concerned with inquiries relating to grants of financial assistance to the States for local government purposes. In order to give effect to its pre-election policies, the Government in 1976 and in 1977 convened Premiers Conferences for the purposes of defining relevant aspects of its policy proposals for financial assistance to the States and local government authorities. These proposals included the amendment of the Grants Commission Act 1973, and in June last year this Parliament enacted the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1976 to modify the Commission's functions in relation to inquiries into applications for financial assistance for local governing bodies. That Act provided for the renaming of the Commission as the Commonwealth Grants Commission, repealed all references in the Act to regional organisations and provided for the Commission to conduct inquiries into matters relating to grants to the States for local government purposes which might be referred to it by the Minister. 
The new financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States came into effect in 1976-77. The system of financial assistance grants to the States was replaced by arrangements for sharing personal income tax. That, of course, was Stage 1 of our new federalism policy, a policy which I believe is demonstrably working to the benefit of the States in general and to the benefit of the smaller States in particular, and most of all to the benefit of the State of Tasmania. 
Under the new arrangements the four less populous States in addition to their basic entitlements under the tax-sharing arrangements, continued to be free to apply for grants for special financial assistance on the recommendation of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. Under Stage 2 of the arrangements the Commission will be responsible for assessing the amounts payable under the equalisation arrangements which are to apply to any surcharges on personal income tax which may be imposed by any of the four less populous States. It has now also been agreed that the per capita relativities in respect of the States' personal income tax entitlements under stage 1 of the arrangements will be reviewed by the Commonwealth Grants Commission especially constituted for that purpose and consisting of the  Chairman,  two other members of the Commission and three associate members, one of whom will be nominated by New South Wales and Victoria and two by the other four States. 
The present situation is that, as a result of the unfortunate death on 30 March 1977 of  Mr L.  E. Whalan and the resignations of  Mr D.  V. Moye and  Mr P.  G. Collins, the present Grants Commission as constituted comprises the  Chairman, Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell, part-time members  Mr W.  R. Lane and Professor R. L. Matthews, and a full-time member,  Mr W.  J. Heron, who is appointed for five years from 22 September 1975. Therefore it can be clearly seen that unless this Bill was brought into this Parliament the Grants Commission may well have been in a position of not being able to operate on a date from 30 November next until the new government was sworn in and new appointments could be made. That is a situation which, with respect, could not be tolerated by the Government. Far from criticising the Government for taking this action at this point of time I believe the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith could have said, in the circumstances, that the course we are adopting is the proper one because if we did not adopt it the Grants Commission would not be able to operate. 
In the remaining time available to me I would like to make a brief comment about the operations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. As I indicated, under section 5 of the Act, the intent of the Grants Commission is to provide a means whereby there shall be at least the opportunity of equality as between the States within the Federation. In the case of Tasmania the situation is highlighted by the fact that our level of personal income per head of population has been consistently below the Australian average for many years. In 1975-76, for example, the level of personal income per head of population in Tasmania was approximately 10 per cent below the Australian average. 
Whilst Tasmania is not a claimant State at the present time and whilst we have a Labor Government in Tasmania which complains that Tasmania has not received sufficient moneys from the Federal Government under our new federalism policy, the fact of the matter is that any State, including Tasmania, which contends that it has not received a fair deal will, as a result of this legislation, be completely free to make an approach to the Commonwealth Grants Commission for a special assistance grant at any time after 30 November. If this amending legislation was not introduced there would be a hiatus and any State could find that it could not legally go before the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The fact of the matter is that today, under our federalism policy, the States are better off financially than they have ever been since Federalism. 
It absolutely aggravates me to hear people say over and over again: 'Oh, you are not much better off than you were under the Whitlam formula'. The fact is that every State government this financial year was able to come back with a budget surplus and, at the same time, reduce taxation. I briefly refer, because it is not appropriate to go into detail, to the statistics set out m the table which was found on page 18 of the 44th Commonwealth Grants Commission report, 1977. Dealing with Tasmania, I draw attention to the fact that in 1975-76, which was the last year of the Whitlam Government assistance by way of revenue grants to Tasmania totalled $156,816,000. At that time that figure was considered to be comparatively generous. However, it is significant to know that in a comparatively short time, with the introduction of the new federalism policy by our Government, in 1976-77 that figure jumped to $186,300,000, which was an increase of $30m for Tasmania. In the financial year 1977-78 that amount has jumped to $2 14,600,000 and increase of 1 5.2 per cent. 
-My colleague the honourable member for Braddon says that we are looking after Tasmania. The fact is that Tasmania has never been better of financially than it is today. For the last two years we have had State Labor Premiers and Ministers complaining that Tasmania was not getting enough money. Yet when we have challenged them to go to the Commonwealth Grants Commission to put a case that there has been an injustice, not really to our surprise the offer has not been taken up. Why has it not been taken up? In 1975-76 Tasmania finished the financial year with a budget surplus of $4,144,000. That was under the last year of the Whitlam Government. In the financial year 1976-77 the Tasmanian Government could not spend all the money it got from Canberra and it finished up with a revenue surplus of $1,583,000. What the papers do not show is that Tasmania finished up with a credit balance in the loans fund of $2.9m. So, in simple financial terms, at the end of the financial year 1976-77 the State Labor Government in Tasmania had $4.4m unspent. I believe this matter is relevant to the Bill because nearly three months ago - 
-That is right.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  my entire speech is taken from the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The point I am making is that if this amendment does not go through the Parliament the situation is that the Grants Commission cannot operate after 30 November. I am pointing out that some States may wish to make an application to the Grants Commission. Indeed, it is a matter of history that following the June Premiers Conference - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! I think Tasmania is still a State of the Commonwealth. 
-Every time we rise in the Parliament to talk about Tasmania there is a concerted attempt from honourable members opposite to silence us. They have tried unsuccessfully for the last 20 months. They absolutely loath Tasmania. The hate Tasmania campaign initiated two weeks ago by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  was carried on last night by honourable members opposite in relation to the Tasmanian Grant (The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Ltd) Bill and again tonight. Why do they do it? They must hate Tasmania so much simply because the people threw out the five Australian Labor Party members in December 1975. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member knows that if he is misrepresented it is not a point of order. If he has been misrepresented he will have an opportunity after this speech to point out where he has been misrepresented and to make a personal explanation. He knows that misrepresentation is not a point of order and I ask him not to take points of order when he knows it is not correct to do so. 
I did not even flatter the honourable member by mentioning him by name. I am simply saying that it is becoming obvious to everybody in Tasmania that whenever Tasmanian Liberal MHRs stand in this House and try to put a case for their State, there is a concerted attempt by the socialist Opposition to shut them up. The reason, of course, is that they will never forgive Tasmania because on 13 December 1975, with an overwhelming vote, the people of Tasmania threw out every single Labor MHR. They replaced those Labor MHRs with five Liberal MHRs. Those five Liberal MHR. have fought for Tasmania and will continue to fight for Tasmania and we will all be back after 10 December. 
I personally, and I believe this Government, have a vision of an Australia where social justice shall prevail and the needs of all underprivileged members of our community will sympathetically and effectively be cared for. I thirst for an era where poverty is eliminated, hardship and suffering are alleviated and all Australians shall not want for any of the basic fundamentals of human existence. Whilst I do not agree with all that the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  has said, I commend him for the obvious sincerity of his speech. 
I believe that it can be fairly said that the present Federal Liberal-National Country Party Government has done more to bring social justice to the Australian community than any preceding government. Whilst I do not want to go through an exercise of comparing the behaviour of one government with that of another, I simply want to say that for the first time in the history of this country the pensioners of Australia now are able to live in a climate in which politics has been taken out of the area of pensions. It was this Government which legislated for automatic indexation of pensions. I believe that legislation did a service to the pensioners because it meant that it was not a matter for government to decide how much it would throw to the pensioners each Budget time. Our Government legislated for indexation and the pensioners have received increases in accordance with the movements in the consumer price index. On 10 November next the pension will again be increased as a direct result of the legislation we introduced. The single standard rate pension will rise by $2.20 to $49.30 a week and the combined married rate will rise by $3.70 to $82.20. 1 must in all fairness say that it was the previous Government which introduced the 6-monthly indexation of pensions, and our Government has fallen into that pattern of indexing pensions automatically at 6- monthly intervals. I still believe-I say this as no criticism of the Government- that where there is quarterly indexation of wages there should be quarterly indexation of pensions. I hope that at some time it will be possible for this to be effected. 
One of the most interesting points is that as we continue to reduce inflation the need for indexation at more frequent intervals diminishes because in this situation where inflation actually is dropping the question of indexation on a 3- monthly or 6-monthly basis does tend to lose its relevance. Nevertheless, I contend that prima facie there should be no distinction between wages on the one hand and pensions on the other. While I am on that point I compliment the Government for resisting moves which were apparently put to it to do something in relation to Commonwealth superannuation. I know this is not strictly within the terms of this Bill but it was a move to change the indexation of Commonwealth superannuation pension payments from the consumer price index to average weekly earnings. I am delighted that the Government determined that it would not create a system of indexation in respect of one area of pensions and a different system of indexation in respect of another area of pensions. 
When this Government came to power the pensions payable were $38.75 at the single standard rate and $64.50 at the married rate. We have increased those rates to $49.30 for the single rate and $82.20 for the married rate. I believe that is an achievement of which we can be proud. More than that, we have taken a step to remove from the backs of the Australian pensioners the hardship of the taxation which was imposed on them by the previous Government because it was the previous Government, the Whitlam Government, which will go down in history as the first government in this country to tax pensions. 
In 1974 your Government introduced taxation scales which were a bitter rip-off of the pensioners of Australia. I am proud to say that m this Budget of 1977 we have introduced tax reforms which will lift the yoke of taxation from 225,000 pensioners in this country. Also in our period in office we have abolished the property means test, as a direct result of which 155,000 pensioners in this country have received an increase in their pensions and many thousands of others who were previously ineligible are now in fact eligible for pensions. I do not know whether the honourable member for Prospect appreciates that as at 30 June this year this Commonwealth Government was paying benefits in age pensions, invalid pensions, wives' pensions, sheltered employment allowances, widows' pensions and supporting mothers' benefits to 1,673,000 people. The cost to the Australian taxpayer of the unemployment benefit alone is $61 8m, that amount being the total of benefits paid to 250,000 people. That is an increase on the previous year in which the cost of the benefit for 1 88,000 people was $5 14m. 
I hope that the honourable member for Prospect will be interested in some of these statistics I am about to give. Because of the time available we have limited debate on this matter and my remarks will not be continuing at any great length. I point out- the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has pointed this out in the Parliament- that Australia has an aging population. The increase of pensioners as a percentage of the work force is quite dramatic. In 1968 pensioners as a percentage of the work force totalled approximately 17 per cent. Today the figure is 27 per cent. Pensioners as a percentage of the working age in 1968 was 12 per cent. Today it is 20 per cent. So the pension bill- I do not regret this but this is a fact of life that we will have to live with- will continue to rise because Australia has an aging population. At the present moment 78 per cent of our aged population in Australia, that is all male persons over 65 years and female persons over 60 years, receive a pension. I do not begrudge that situation; I am simply indicating that the number of persons over the age of 65 who are working has decreased. In 1968 the percentage receiving a pension was not 78 percent, the figure I have just quoted, but only 53 per cent. Therefore our commitment to those people will continue. 
I draw attention to the fact that last year we had an increase of 10.4 per cent in the number of invalid pensions but the increase in the cost to revenue was 25.5 per cent. In the field of age pensions the increase was 4 per cent in the number of pensioners and 16.6 per cent in the cost to revenue. I could go on at some length. The number of people receiving sheltered unemployment allowances went up by 1 1 per cent and the cost by 41 per cent. The number of class A widows pensions went up 7.1 per cent and the number of class B widows pensions 8.4 per cent while the expenditure rose 13.8 per cent. 
The only other category to which I want to refer relates to a matter for which the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  has earned the praise and gratitude of this Parliament and the nation. I refer to the campaign that he has successfully led for the introduction of supporting benefits for lone fathers. He did a magnificent job and the people of Australia recognise it. I do not overlook work done by any other honourable members in earlier years. I simply say that the credit for this victory properly rests on the shoulders of the honourable member for Franklin, an indefatigible fighter on behalf of the underprivileged of this nation.  His  efforts have been rewarded. The increase in unmarried mothers pensions was 9. 1 per cent last year. The increase in deserted wives pensions was 8.4 per cent. The increase in separated-de facto wives pensions was 14.2 per cent. The increase in the other categories, which included additional benefits for children, mothers allowances and supplementary assistance, was 25.7 per cent. I draw the attention of the House to these figures to indicate the enormity of the burden of the cost of social welfare to the community. We would all like to see pensions increased and we would all like to see benefits extended but when do we reach a situation when we have to say to the Australian taxpayer: 'We will tax you higher to meet these benefits'? 
I notice that my time is fast running out, so I come to my concluding remarks. I refer to the Karen Green case. I say very quickly that I, Karen Green and her family deplore the political purpose to which her case has been put. Her mother has telephoned me complaining that this girl is repeatedly being thrown up in the newspapers and repeatedly being used for political purposes when in fact she has been at work since March of this year. I want to say something about the right to work campaigners who latched onto the Karen Green case and used it for purely political purposes. I wish some of these people would get onto the schemes that we have going, such as the Community Youth Support scheme, the Special Youth Employment Training scheme, the Commonwealth Rebate Apprenticeship Full-Time scheme and all those other things, instead of using unemployment and one particular girl for political purposes. 
I conclude by saying that as far as the honourable member for Franklin and I are concerned our consciences are clear on the question of unemployment in our areas. We have worked to alleviate unemployment. The figures show that the unemployment rate in Hobart is lower than in any other part of the State. We deplore people using the Karen Green case. We deplore the fact that she has been used for political purposes. This girl has been used malevolently. I would have hoped that members of the Labor Party would have adopted the sincere approach of the honourable member for Prospect rather than follow some of the publicity hunters who picked on a Tasmanian girl and decided to make her a national political pawn. I support the Bill and congratulate the Government. I congratulate the good  Samaritan  Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  who is one of the unsung heroes of this Parliament. She is repeatedly bashed and too infrequently praised. I hope we do not see a return to the wicked Hayden days when the pensioners of Australia were taxed and used as a political football. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 8 October 1 977: 
Having regard to the effects of the recent 3 per cent increase in air fares upon Australia's island State, Tasmania, and particularly with the advent of the coming tourist season, will he convene a conference with both Ansett Airlines and Trans Australia Airlines in an endeavour to ensure that Tasmania is given special exemption from the next air fare increase, whenever this may occur. 
-Is the Prime Minister aware of plans by the United States of America to strengthen its forces in Asia and in the Pacific area? 
-Firstly, I wish to associate myself with the expressions of loyalty to  Her  Majesty the Queen in the AddressinReply. Secondly, I ask you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to congratulate  Mr Speaker  most warmly on his recent knighthood and his reelection as  Speaker  of this House- the highest office the Parliament can confer on one of its members and an office which he has occupied with great distinction, impartiality and dignity. I also congratulate most warmly the new  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees, the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar).  Thirdly, I congratulate the mover and seconder of the motion for the adoption of the AddressinReply and all the other speakers- particularly the new members on both sides of the Housefor their most valuable contributions to this debate. 
The vacuum left by the departure from this House of such great parliamentarians as the honourable Kim Beazley, the honourable W. C. Wentworth, the honourable Frank Crean, the honourable Don Chipp, the honourable Bert Kelly, and newer members  Mr Tony  Whitlam and  Mr John  Abel, has been filled by new, young and enthusiastic members of great promise and potential. I am naturally proud to have been reelected member for Denison, notwithstanding an extremely strong and vigorous campaign waged by the Australian Labor Party and a most worthy and distinguished opponent, a former member of this House. I am further proud of the fact that I belong to a Party which constitutionally guarantees to its parliamentary members the right to speak out on matters of conscience even if the views held do not coincide with the publicly expressed policy of the Government. I go further and say that in my judgment members are duty bound to express views which they conscientiously hold- that is why we are here- and it would be hypocritical in the extreme to cower in silence when such a situation arises. Shakespeare said: 'Thus conscience does make cowards of us all'; but that is true only if a man turns his back on his conscience and runs away from the occasion on which he is morally called upon to express the truth as he believes it to be. Whilst I recognise and respect the conscientious views of those who form the majority opinion in our Government parties on the matter I wish to raise, 
I am comforted in the knowledge that they in return respect the conscientious minority views which I and some of my colleagues hold, and our right- our inalienable right- to proclaim our views and to be heard in the Parliament of this nation. 
Both conscience and reason compel me to say that I do not accept Australia's decision of 20 January, 1978, to recognise that East Timor is now part of Indonesia any more than I could accept the decision of the previous Administration that the Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia were legally part of Soviet Russia; any more than could I have accepted the annexation of Czechoslovakia by the Third Reich of Nazi Germany; any more than I could accept the brutal and murderous oppression of patriotic uprisings in Hungary, Poland and Czechoslovakia. Three fundamental questions must be asked and, indeed, demand answers, with respect to Australia's announcement of 20 January concerning East Timor. They are: What exactly did Australia do on that day and what are its implications both nationally and internationally? Why was that decision taken? Was it right? 
Does this House fully appreciate the implications of 20 January, the qualities of the decision and the consequences upon recognition? Let us go back 40 years to another case and ascertain what principles can be extracted from statements made at that time in the House of Commons, and outside the Parliament, by people of great eminence and authority in whose shadows I would never dare even to imagine that I would be fit to walk. It was on 21 September 1938 that the late Winston Spencer Churchill proclaimed the unanswerable proposition that 'the idea that safety can be purchased by throwing a small state to the wolves is a fatal delusion'. He made that statement in the context of the Chamberlain doctrine of appeasement, which had already brought about the resignation of Anthony Eden, and in the light of the Czechoslovakian crisis of 1938. It was on 15 September that Chamberlain flew to Berchtesgaden to see Hitler and proposed the partition of Czechoslovakia. In his statement of 2 1 September, Churchill warned that the nation should realise the magnitude of the disaster into which it was being led. 
The actions of Chamberlain in 1938 are strikingly similar to those of the Whitlam Government in 1975, when the green light was given to Indonesian proposals for military intervention into East Timor and the annexation of the former Portuguese territory. I contend that insofar as the Whitlam Government was prepared to permit the 'throwing of a small state to the wolves', in its own way it surrendered to the fatal delusion of which Churchill had spoken 37 years beforehand. Far from improving the security of our South Pacific region, by action of appeasement it in fact will aggravate the position in the years which lie ahead. One month later, in October 1938, Churchill again spoke on Czechoslovakia. He said: 
All is over. Silent mournful abandoned, broken Czechoslovakia recedes into the darkness. She has suffered in every respect by her association with the Western democracies . . . 
How apposite are these words to the small former Portuguese territory of East Timor. Colonised for 400 years by Portugal, shamelessly abandoned by that power, she turned to the Western democracies for aid and comfort when outside military aggression occurred. With the sole exception of Australia which supported the United Nations resolution of December 1975 in condemning Indonesian military aggression in East Timor, none of the Western democracies at that time were prepared to come to her aid let alone utter one word in her defence. Churchill concluded his speech in October 1938 by saying that the world:  . . . should know that we have passed an awful milestone in our history . . . and that the terrible words have for the time being been pronounced against the Western democracies: Thou are weighed in the balance and found wanting. And do not suppose that this is the end. This is only the beginning of the reckoning. This is only the first sip, the first foretaste of a bitter cup which will be proffered to us year by year unless by a supreme recovery of moral health and marshal vigour we arise again and take our stand for freedom as in the olden times. 
For how long are the Western democracies, including Australia, prepared to appease repeated actions of aggression and intimidation by our nearest and largest neighbour, the Republic of Indonesia, being a nation which shares with us a total opposition to atheistic communism? Yet Hitler was staunchly anticommunist and the same people who berated Churchill in 1938 because he dared to criticise Hitler are saying in 1978: 'Let us not criticise Indonesia because at least they are on our side and against communism'. I cite the cases of West Irian, North Borneo, the Malaysian Confrontation, East Timor. Who will be next? We have now formally accepted- de facto- the incorporation of East Timor. We now say it is part of Indonesia and whilst we regret the manner in which the incorporation has occurred we can do nothing about it. 
What is Australia's attitude with respect to Papua New Guinea? Many in Jakarta contend that the whole of New Guinea is traditionally part of the Indonesian Archipelago. Will anyone in this chamber say that if trouble erupts on the border between West Irian and Papua New Guinea that we should stand by in silence and do nothing as in fact, to our eternal shame, has been our attitude with respect to East Timor? Many of my colleagues have said to me that whilst they deeply regret what has happened in East Timor, they would not tolerate similar action by Indonesia with respect to Papua New Guinea. Apart from the obvious comment as to why there should be any distinction between East Timorese and the Papua New Guineans, I feel entitled to ask: What guarantee can Australia offer, on its past track record, to our colleagues in Papua New Guinea that their situation would be handled in a different way if an act of attempted incorporation occurs? Remember, the whole thesis of the Indonesian approach to East Timor was that it was vital in the interests of international security that Indonesia, on the basis of its own subjective judgment, should send over 29,000 troops into East Timor. Whilst I might be prepared to accept the good faith of President Suharto- who I am convinced was originally firmly opposed to the Indonesian military intervention in East Timor- I am not prepared to accept the sound judgment of Ali Moetopo and Benny Moerdani on the basis of their performances both in West Irian and East Timor. 
In condemning Munich Churchill made no apology for the fact that what he was going to say would be unpopular. In his own words, the House of Commons would not wish to hear 'the ugly truth'. His speech was repeatedly interrupted by hostile and angry interjections by his own Party colleagues and, indeed, he stood alone with only three supporters on that occasion- Duff Cooper, Bracken and his own son-in-law, Duncan Sandys. Incredible is it not that within a few months practically every leading newspaper in the country was calling for his appointment as Prime Minister and within 12 months the Admiralty was able to send the message to the Fleet 'Winston is back', and within a further nine months, in June 1940, he was called upon to lead his nation. 
In case any honourable member thinks that I am seeking to draw any comparison between the great Churchill and myself, let me say emphatically that this is not so. I merely point out that when Henry V, on the eve of the Battle of Agincourt, spoke of 'We few', he highlighted the fact that quality is not necessarily commensurate with quantity. The few who today refuse to let the issue of East Timor die might well find that within a comparatively short space of time their numbers are swelled and their stand is vindicated. The story of Czechoslovakia- the debacle of Munich appeasement is not complete without referring to the fact that barely two months after the German invasion of Czechoslovakia on 14 March, 1939 the United Kingdom Government, to its eternal shame and discredit, granted de facto recognition to the puppet Slovakian Government. 
I claim to have been, during my entire parliamentary career, completely even-handed on the question of human rights. Though then a university student I was publicly heard to condemn the brutal retaliation to the Hungarian freedom uprising of 1956. 1 publicly condemned the savage Soviet repression of workers uprisings in Poland and Czechoslovakia. I was affronted and offended by the disgraceful decision of the Whitlam Government to grant recognition to the incorporation of the Baltic States, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. I am proud to say that I played an active role in urging the Liberal Party to make a firm commitment that upon election to office it would reverse that decision- and in fact we did so within three days of the election of December 10, 1975. As I see it the fundamental principle which we so proudly proclaimed over the Baltic States has been violated by Australia's decision of 20 January. 
Since my election to this honourable Parliament I have been out-spoken in the defence of human rights whenever they have been violated, be it behind the Iron Curtain, in Cambodia, Laos and Vietman: in Uganda and other parts of Africa- indeed wherever it has arisen throughout the world. Nobody, either in this House or in the community of the Australian nation, can accuse me of having made fish of one and fowl of another. The violation of human rights wherever it has occurred has provoked my spontaneous condemnation. 
Earlier in this speech I posed three questions concerning Australia's decision of 20 January, a decision which I believe was wrong in principle and bad politically, both nationally and internationally. In the announcement of 20 January the Government said that it had decided 'to accept East Timor is part of Indonesia'. East Timor is not, never has been and never truly will be part of Indonesia whatever military control has been obtained. Some observers claim that Indonesia in fact controls less than one third of East Timor -but 600,000 residents of this small province do not consider themselves Indonesian and are scarcely likely to do so in view of the acts which have been perpetrated against them over the past 2 'A years. 
Secondly, I have asked why did Australia take the decision it did on 20 January- totally repudiating our honourable stand in the United Nations in December 1975 when we condemned Indonesia's blatant military aggression. It is fatuous- I repeat, 'fatuous'- to say that whilst we deplore Indonesia's actions, we are nevertheless going to accord Indonesia any sort of recognition. If what was done in 1975 was brutal, immoral and wrong- and it was- it remains so in 1978 and will continue to remain so until rectified by a proper act of self-determination for the people of East Timor in accordance with the principles of international law. The timing of the announcement of 20 January is beyond me although I must say in passing that I was pleased to hear the firm assurance of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  that no deal whatsoever had been done with Indonesia over oil rights in the Timor Sea. Can the decision of 20 January be justified and defended. In my judgment it cannot and I publicly dissociate myself from it. I see the decision as a major blunder and a sad shock to all Australians who believe in fundamental human rights and basic decency in international affairs. In many ways East Timor is our Munich- our sacrificial offering at the altar of Pacific appeasement. 
When I resume my seat I have no doubt that I will be attacked- branded pro-Fretilin, if not pro-communist, and generally denigrated by those who do not share my views. I choose, therefore, to conclude by quoting verbatim from a letter recently received in this country from an ordinary Catholic priest who has had the misfortune to be in East Timor during the horrors of the last two years. Speaking of last September, he said: 
The war was again intensified. The bombers do not stop all day. Hundreds of human beings die every day- the bodies of the victims become food for carnivorous birds (if we do not die of the war, we die of the plague). Villages were completely destroyed, some tribes decimated and the war enters its third year with no promise of an early end in sight. 
He speaks of the cruelties, the pillaging, the 'unqualified destruction of Timor', executions without reason. Fretilin soldiers who give themselves up are disposed of- 'for them there is no prison'. He writes: 
The Bishop has resigned and in his place is a apostolic administrator, Father Lopez. The proclaimed liberation is synonymous with slavery- Timor is returning to the years 1 94S-S0 and anti-communism is an islamic slogan meaning 'iconoclasm' to us. 
He concludes with this plea: 
Timor is not integrated but annexed. It has not been liberated from 'communism' but handed over to barbarians and sold to Indonesian moslems. Freedom in any aspect does not exist. Please do something positive for the liberty of  the Timorese people. The world ignores us and our grief . . . we are on the road to complete genocide.' 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, the war in Timor is now a religious war, and it appalls me that Australia- a so-called Christian nation will stand by while thousands of our fellow Christians are systematically and ruthlessly massacred, raped and deprived of their freedom and liberty. 
In a devastating article in the  Pacific Defence Reporter  in October 1977, a great Australian,  Major General  Paul Cullen, C.B.E., D.S.O. and Bar, E.D., had this to say: 
Should we really pull up our socks, increase our military effectiveness, it could still be done relatively quickly and say, 'so far and no further', and say 'you have no right to be in East Timor' and say 'you must let us determine the wishes of the Timorese in a United Nations plebiscite.' Perhaps we should say what we know to be right in these circumstances, having regard to our obligations under the United Nations charter, and, in the long term to our responsibility to pressure Australia as an independent nation in the years ahead. In our present policies, we seem to be deluding ourselves as we slide towards another Munich situation. 
Timor then, is both a disaster and an intrigue. Churchill said on 19 May 1939:  . . . the way to counteract intrigue . . . is to be strong and the united strength of all peacekeeping nations would be overwhelming and would have a deterrent factor. 
It is not too late for Australia to change her course of action and at the very least to insist that International Red Cross should be admitted into East Timor and that the brutal murderers of the five Australian journalists should be brought to justice for their foul crime. When I say 'insist', I believe Australia should insist that International Red Cross should be permitted into East Timor and those murderers brought to justice. Does anybody in this chamber suggest that International Red Cross is a communist organisation and could not be trusted? Why on earth do the Indonesians refuse to permit it to enter East Timor?  Mr Deputy Speaker,  what we do now will be judged by history and that judgment will justifiably be harsh if we fail to act with honour and a firm determination as we are put to the test and weighed in the balance on the basic and fundamental question of human rights. 
I noticed in this afternoon's Melbourne  Herald  a news item which I feel ought to be drawn to the attention of honourable members. It appeared on page 3. 1 will read it verbatim: 
The number of Australians out of work fell last month by 44,000 a private consumer research organisation has found. 
The organisation said the number of "full-time unemployed "in February was 328,000. 
The survey conducted by the Roy Morgan Research Centre Pty Ltd., which also conducts the Gallup Poll, found that falls were recorded in all age groups. 
The findings were the results of four evenly spaced surveys during February in which information was obtained from 1 1,000 people questioned. 
It is expected that these trends will be reflected also in the Commonwealth Employment Service figures due later this week. 
The managing-director of the Roy Morgan Research Centre Pry Ltd.,  Mr Garry  Morgan, said today: "It is expected that the CES figures for February will fall about 20,000 to 30,000." 
However, he points out that the Australian Bureau of Statistics is expected to report an increase because it did not survey in December - 
I query why not - . . . and January when the unemployment pool rose because of school-leavers. 
In a statement issued with the results of the survey,  Mr Morgan  is critical in the way in which the CES figures are used to measure unemployment each month. 
He describes them as misleading because persons, registered as unemployed, do not have to notify the CES when they have a job, thereby inflating the situation. "People can be registered for a full-time job while working part-time, " he said. 
The Morgan index showed that the 121,000 unemployed last month, aged over 24, was the lowest for six months. Last month, the number was 156,000. 
Those aged between 14 and 24, who were out of work, totalled 207,000-down 9000 on February's figures. 
This is not the first time that a major discrepancy has been brought to the attention of this Parliament between the figures collected by a private research organisation, the figures collected by the Commonwealth Employment Service and the figures produced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The significant point is that, despite the prophecies of doom which have been paraded in this House during the last fortnight by members of the Opposition, the unemployment level is falling. That is confirmed not only by the figures of the Roy Morgan Research Centre Pty Ltd but also by the figures of the Commonwealth Employment Service. I believe that to a large extent this vindicates those of us who have contended that if people were prepared to give the Government's policies some time to work a result would be achieved and the unemployment level would continue to drop. 
It is not surprising that the news that the unemployment level is dropping will come as a shock to members of the Australian Labor Party. When the Whitlam Government was in power it created the highest unemployment in this country since 1930. Since 1975, honourable members opposite have paraded permanently as prophets of doom, jeremiahs, whingers and scaremongers putting fear into the unemployed and particularly the young unemployed. I have complained in the House on many occasions about people using the unemployment situation as a political football. I suggest to those members of the Labor Party who have repeatedly tried to frighten young people who are endeavouring to get employment that they ought to pay a little attention to the figures and give a little encouragement to those people who are presently out of work and who want work and will be looking for work in the near future. Instead of knocking, whingeing, fear mongering and scaremongering, honourable members opposite should speak during the next few weeks in praise and support of the community youth support scheme, the special youth employment training program and the fact that apprentice training allowances were increased three weeks ago. I wonder how many honourable members opposite have told the young people in their electorates of that situation. Honourable members opposite ought to act constructively to get young Australians into jobs. 
I congratulate the Roy Morgan Research Centre Pty Ltd. I noticed some laughter from honourable members opposite when I cited its figures. I did not notice such laughter when the gallup poll figures indicated certain things which supported the Labor Party a few months ago. Either  Mr Morgan's  organisation is corrupt or the figures are correct. If the figures are correct, we are starting to win the battle against unemployment. I hope that in the weeks ahead we will not hear honourable members opposite trying to drum up unemployment as an issue for purely political purposes. High unemployment is something which they created and we cured. It would help us a lot if they assisted us in repairing the damage that the Whitlam Government created from 1972 to 1975. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. I call the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. 
My question to the Prime Minister relates to the shock announcement of 300 retrenchments at Universal Textiles Australia Ltd factory in Derwent Park, Tasmania and it simply is this: At any time prior to the announcement at 5 p.m. last Friday, did Universal Textiles or its parent company, Dunlop Australia Ltd, seek any special aid or assistance direct from the Federal Government in order to avert or avoid the said proposed retrenchments? 
-The Bill before the Parliament- the Australian National Railways Amendment Bill- gives honourable members an opportunity to comment briefly upon the operations of the Australian National Railways Commission.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I do not intend to trespass upon your indulgence and will therefore restrict my remarks in the same manner as the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  who has just preceded me. More particularly, we are given the opportunity to cover what are almost certainly the last steps of the legislation to pass through our Parliament dealing with the transfer of the South Australian Railways and the Tasmanian Railways under Commonwealth control to the Australian National Railways Commission. 
A lot of water has passed under the bridge since the agreement was entered into between the Whitlam Government, the Tasmanian State Labor Government and the South Australian State Labor Government for the transfer of all the Tasmanian railways and the nonmetropolitan railway services in South Australia a few years ago. This agreement took place at a time when, as a matter of interest, I, like the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  who spoke earlier this afternoon, was between parliaments. I simply make a comment that the arguments which I should very much like to recanvass, as to the merits of the deals done with South Australia and Tasmania by the Whitlam Government, are perhaps too far in the dim past to be strictly relevant to this Bill. If I were to do so, you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  would very promptly and correctly call me to order. 
I do, however, content myself by saying that there is no doubt in my mind, on reading the agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the South Australian Government on the one hand and the Commonwealth Government and the Tasmanian Government on the other hand, that South Australia got the better end of the deal. That is a very sad thing because Tasmania has suffered, and I have no doubt will continue to suffer over the years to come, as a result of shortcomings in the agreement negotiated between the Whitlam Government and the Tasmanian State Labor Government. But as I say, that is all water under the bridge and I am very pleased to be able to indicate to the House that my Tasmanian colleagues applaud the fact that when we have had problems with respect to the Tasmanian railways we have found the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  not only sympathetic but also understanding, and in more recent times we have found the Australian National Railways Commission extremely sympathetic and understanding on a question of considerable importance to Tasmania. In respect of this matter, my colleagues the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  and the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  and I travelled to South Australia and put submissions to the Australian National Railways Commission. The Commission not only received us courteously and sympathetically, but it in fact upheld part of our submissions and, as a result, made certain variations to a previous determination which was to the benefit of our State. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 

 -Mr Speaker, I was referring to the agreements between the Whitiam Government and the South Australian State Government and the Tasmanian Government with respect to the transfer of railway services. Honourable members would be aware that negotiations took place with respect to those agreements in late 1974 and early 1975. The effective operative date for the agreements was 1 July 1975 at which time the entire Tasmanian Government Railways and the non-metropolitan railways in South Australia were to be transferred to the Commonwealth. I merely say in passing that one of the bonuses to the South Australian Government was in fact the retention of the metropolitan services in that State. It is a matter of profound regret to me and to other honourable members from Tasmania that barely weeks before the commencement date of the agreement, namely 1 July 1975, when assets and liabilities were transferred to the Commonwealth, the Tasmanian State Labor Government, in clear breach of a solemn election promise, terminated the Hobart suburban passenger rail service. I am sure,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you will permit me to say on this occasion that I and other Liberal members in this House and our colleagues in the Tasmanian State Parliament will do everything in our power to see that the service is reinstated. 
Since 1 July 1975 until 1 March this year, the railway service in Tasmania has been operated by the Transport Commission of that State as agents for the Australian National Railways Commission. Any honourable member who has followed recent controversial matters involving the construction of the slip road at the Hobart Railway Station, the threatened termination of the Tasman Limited service, the threatened closure of the Hobart passenger rail terminal and reports of the closure of up to 13 or 14 country railway stations will be aware that all Tasmanian Federal members of Parliament, but particularly myself, my colleague the honourable member for Wilmot and the honourable member for Franklin have been extremely active in the area of railway operations. It is very significant, and it will come as a surprise to many honourable members opposite, that we in fact have had closer contact with railwaymen in Tasmania than the State Labor Government members of parliament have, even though the unions connected with the railways are affiliated with the Australian Labor Party. I do not want to provoke my friend the honourable member for Shortland into responding but I simply want to say that the track record of the State Labor Government in Tasmania in respect of railway administration is nothing short of deplorable and nobody will trust it any more. Without raking over old coals, I simply say that many of us in Tasmania are now delighted that as from 1 March this year the operations of the Tasmanian railways are fully under the control of the ANRC and, with respect, not the Tasmanian Transport Commission, certain elements of which were very much, in my opinion, hostile to the continuation of Tasmanian rail services. 
Some honourable members might be interested to know why we are speaking on this Bill which prima facie appears to deal with the entitlements and rights of South Australian Railways employees who have now transferred to the ANRC. I am informed- I think it is appropriate to mention it at this point in time- that the legislation was specifically sought by the South Australian railwaymen but that in fact no such special legislation had been sought by Tasmanian railwaymen who in respect of the provisions set out in the Bill dealing with long service leave entitlements, compensation and other benefits, are in a very fortunate position and by variation of current awards will get the best of both worlds. To honourable members who query why I am speaking at all on this Bill let me simply say that the very rights of South Australian railwaymen which are protected under this legislation have already been taken care of in respect of Tasmanian railwaymen. 
I do not wish to encroach on your generosity,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but I would like very briefly for one or two moments to speak in relation to two current matters which affect the Tasmanian railways. Those people who have followed the situation in Tasmania will be aware that last year, as a result of a report received, a recommendation was made that the Tasman Limited service be terminated. It is very much to the credit of the Minister and indeed to all Tasmanian Federal members of parliament who support the Government in both the House of Representatives and the Senate that the Government was prepared to come forward with a special six-month funding program to enable a reprieve to be granted to the Tasman Limited service. I only want to say in very brief terms that I think it is quite regrettable that the initiative shown by our Government was not carried forward by people in Tasmania who should have been protecting the railways instead of standing back in an apathetic manner and not taking the opportunity to ensure that during that six-month trial period everything possible was done to increase patronage on the Tasman Limited service and to ensure that a better service would eventuate. 
As the honourable member for Wilmot has said, frankly the State Government wanted to get rid of the Tasman Limited service. Indeed, it is a comment which I am sure would be supported by practically every railwayman in Tasmania. The point I want to make- I think there is a lesson in this for all honourable members who are genuinely concerned about the operation of railway systems- is: Because the Federal Government had made a generous offer to continue support for six months and because there was no budgetary authority for suppport to be extended beyond that time, it was quite obvious that the Minister for Transport was not in a position to extend the subsidy and there was a very grave risk that the service would have had to come to an end in February of this year. Accordingly, Tasmanian members of Parliament had one avenue of approach open to them and one only, and that was to go to the ANRC. I will be quite frank. Apart from  Mr Ralph  Taylor, who previously had been in Tasmania, I did not personally know any of the members of the Commission; nor, I believe, did  Mr Max  Burr or  Mr Bruce  Goodluck, my parliamentary colleagues, know them. We sought an appointment with the Commission and we went to Adelaide on 8 February. I want to place on record- I am sure that my colleague the honourable member for Wilmot will support this-that we were very impressed and most pleasantly surprised at the manner in which we were received by the Commission, the manner in which it dealt with our submission and the constructive approach of that body. I want publicly to place on record our gratitude, which we have previously expressed but I do so for the first time in this Parliament, to the  Chairman  of the Commission,  Mr Keith  Smith, and to all the other commissioners for the way in which they received us. They in fact upheld our submissions and instead of the Tasman Limited service being terminated completely as was likely to have happened, the service is continuing but on a reduced schedule basis. It now operates three days a week but I hope that in the period which now will be available to the ANRC properly to review and indeed effectively to promote the Tasman Limited service we will be able to get back in a very short time to a five-day service and eventually to a seven-day service. I know that I can speak on this matter with the support of my colleagues the honourable member for Wilmot and the honourable member for Franklin. 
The second matter I wish to raise relates to the future of railways in Australia generally. I believe that the Minister for Transport should be supported by honourable members on both sides of this House in seeking a more substantial allocation of funds from the Commonwealth Government for the rehabilitation and upgrading of Australia's railway systems. I believe that the Minister- indeed, I am sure that he is cognisant of the fact- knows that the ANRC would like to do a lot of things but frankly cannot do so because of the shortage of funds. In the Budget which we passed last year there was an appropriation of $88.8m from Commonwealth  funds.  The honourable member for Shortland has pointed out that the assets of the Commission are nearly $400m; its expenditure last year was $195m; and its income was $125m. I suppose we can add to those figures something in the order of $200m to $300m in expenditure by the other States which operate their own services, namely those except South Australia and Tasmania. I am convinced that the roads in Australia will be absolutely unbearable and indeed impossible to travel on within a decade. The cost of fuel to enable people to drive motor cars and trucks, particularly the long haulage vehicles, will become so great that unless we build up our railways now I believe the generation to come will curse us for having let the railway systems fall into disrepair. I am further convinced that as a defence facility an efficient railway system linking all parts of Australia is an absolute must. When the line goes through to Alice Springs I hope that it is continued right through to link up with the line that comes from Darwin because it is absolutely ridiculous that whilst we have an east-west railway line in Australia we do not have a north-south railway line linking South Australia with the Northern Territory. In any situation involving hostilities this must be one of the major links as far as the defence of this country is concerned. Therefore, I urge honourable members to support the Minister because he has made it quite clear that he supports and indeed recognises the need for upgrading and improving the Australian railway system. I believe we have to get it into the head of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and those who, with all due respect, may not be quite as enthusiastic as is the Minister for Transport because I am absolutely convinced that unless we substantially increase our expenditure to upgrade our railways in 20 years the next generation of Australians will curse us for letting go into decay and decline a system which will be vital to the future of this country in the 2 1 st century. I support the Bill. 
Will the Minister for Construction inform the House of progress and development in the construction of the magnificent $8m Antarctic base at Kingston, Tasmania, which is in the electorate of Denison, of the letting of work to private consultants in Hobart and of the impending calling of tenders for the construction of this major complex? 
-The legislation which is before the House tonight is of considerable importance to all Australians and it has a particular reference to Tasmania. 
Honourable members who have been away from this place for a while and then return seem to come back with all sorts of illusions of grandeur. I noticed that the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  who spoke immediately before my colleague the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  rose, could not resist even being criticial by interjection of the honourable member for Franklin when he endeavoured to put what I thought was a pretty valid point of view. 
We have a most extraordinary situation in the Parliament tonight in that the legislation which is before the Parliament has never been put forward by the Government as a cure-all for all the problems which have been confronted by those who are dependent on the petroleum and fuel industry. In particular the legislation- and one must be frank about this- does not give any substantial assistance at all to Tasmania. Nor does it give assistance to a number of other parts of Australia. 

 Mr HODGMAN The honourable member keeps interjecting. He is one of those people who always like to hear the sound of their own voice and never want to listen to anybody else. This legislation does not assist a number of areas. The fundamental point that I make in this debate is: What does one do when one finds legislation, which quite frankly is deficient as far as one State is concerned, and one is confronted with the most hypocritical and deceitful amendment that one could possibly imagine could be put forward by the Opposition? I was not listed to speak in the debate but I am not prepared to remain silent while a colleague of mine - 
-You cannot remain silent either. You could not keep quiet in the Victorian Parliament and you cannot keep quiet here. I suggest that you should go back to the courts. You were a very good lawyer in Victoria - 
It is very appropriate that the honourable member for Wills is sitting next to the new honourable member for Melbourne Ports, a former member of the Victorian Parliament and a former member of the Victorian Bar. I commend - 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Your wisdom and impartiality compel me to come back to the point I was endeavouring to make before I was interrupted by my colleagues on the other side of the House. I was about to say that it strikes me as one of the greatest acts of hypocrisy that I have seen in any parliament, State or Federal, when we get a phoney confidence trick put forward in the form of an amendment by the other side purely to take advantage of the genuine and sincere concern of not one but several Government supporters. As a matter of fact, honourable members opposite do not like to be reminded that I crossed the floor in the last Parliament on a matter, as did my colleague the honourable member for Franklin, and voted with the Opposition. The interesting point,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  is that before a vote is taken one thinks that suddenly one had become the most popular person in Canberra. One walks across Kings Hall, walks down the passages and is beamed at by Labor members who say: 'Good to see you are going to be with us; good to see you are going to vote with us'. But the moment the vote is taken you are about as popular as a pork chop at somebody's picnic. I will not say whose because  Mr Grassby  or somebody may. accuse me of making a racist statement. I simply want to make the point as bluntly as I can that this Bill is deficient - 
My colleague from Swancan I respond to a helpful interjection which has come from my side of the chamber? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-As indicated by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  this Bill was introduced in the last Parliament but lapsed on the dissolution of that Parliament. It amends the Evidence Act 1905 to provide for the admissibility in a proceeding before the High Court or any court created by the Parliament, that is the Federal 
Parliament, other than a Territory court, of business records in the circumstances and subject to the restrictions set out in the Bill and to which I shall refer. The Bill follows a recommendation made by the Swanson Commute that there should be provision for the admissibility of business records in proceedings under the Trade Practices Act. However, the Bill will in fact apply to all proceedings before the High Court or a Federal court. 
If I might make one other preliminary comment before dealing with the clauses of the Bill and the principles which I believe are involved, it is contended by the Government that without provisions such as those contained in the Bill, business records would ordinarily be excluded as hearsay evidence. The Bill proceeds on the basis that the reasons for excluding hearsay evidence are not generally applicable in relation to business records. I emphasise the words 'not generally', because there are some very important exceptions and, in my opinion, some very important questions of principle involved. 
People driving home at the moment listening to this broadcast might wonder what on earth are the principles involved in a Bill to amend an Act which was originally passed in this Parliament in 1905. The laws which govern the admissibility of evidence in the courts of this country are vital to the administration of justice. A corrupt government could completely unbalance the scales of justice by rigging the laws of evidence, and I believe it is fundamental- I commend the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition on his very considered speech with respect to this Bill- that we should look at all aspects of this matter to ensure that we are not doing with the best intentions anything which might result in an injustice to any person. There would not be a member of this Parliament who would willingly vote for any legislation which might unwittingly and unintentionally do somebody a very grave injustice. Insofar as this Bill cuts across the time-honoured hearsay rule, it is important that we consider it carefully and ensure that, in our desire to make the working of justice more easy and to facilitate the proof of facts by the production of records rather than by the calling of a large number of witnesses, we do not do something which will cause in some future proceedings grave injustice to some person, company or any other group. 
There are one or two matters in the Bill with respect to which I express some reservations, but not to the extent of moving an amendment or voting against the clauses in the Bill. I wish to flag them at this time in the hope that at some future date, if the problems which I believe could occur do occur, there will be some record of their having been referred to in debate in this Parliament. I refer to the importance of the hearsay rule and to the basic fact that, in the absence of special statutory provisions, the hearsay rule would prevent the admissibility of these business records in legal proceedings. This results from a very important rule, that is, that records are of their very nature second hand evidence, and documents cannot stand up in a witness box and be cross-examined. One cannot see the colour of the witness when he is given a question which puts him on the spot. One cannot cross-examine a document. 
In this modern day and age when more and more evidence is given by documents and machines such as breathalysers and radar equipment there could well be a tendency to think that in the twenty-first century a person's guilt or innocence will be determined by what is in a document or recorded on a machine. The fact that this legislation is modern is clearly demonstrated by the fact that for the first time, to my knowledge and I would think to the knowledge of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, in a legal definition of 'document' in an Act of Parliament are the words that it includes something which has been produced by a computer. There are some people who ascribe to computers an infallibility which, in my humble opinion, is quite unjustified and somewhat shattering. One has only to think of what happened with the Bell Telephone Company's computer in the United States of America. When somebody added one cent to his telephone account the computer went mad because normally people do not pay more than they owe. I am not knocking computers and I do not want to incur the combined wrath of all in the computer industry in this country; I am simply pointing out that for the very first time we are putting into an Act of Parliament that evidence from computers will be admitted in courts of law. I think that that is a fairly significant thing. It is certainly something worth mentioning at this point. 
Unlike the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, I am not going to express an opinion as to whether this legislation applies to the records of trade unions. I am well aware of the opinions expressed in the Senate that it does. I have very great respect for the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in his assertion that it does not. The interesting point is that the High Court of Australia or some other Federal court may have to determine that question. In proposed new section 7a  (  1 ) the definition of business ' includes: 
any business, profession, occupation, calling, trade or undertaking- 
Some lawyers may relish the possibility of arguing that the operation of a trade union is an undertaking. The definition goes on to say that it does not matter whether it is for profit or otherwise. I reserve my decision on that issue. I do not want to provoke the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. I simply say that I do not know whether it applies. To be quite frank, as a matter of principle I have no firm view one way or another as to whether it ought to apply to the records of trade unions. 
I turn now to the clauses of the Bill so as to avoid making a number of short speeches in the Committee stage with respect to each provision on which I desire to make a comment. I have already referred to the fact that the definition of document' includes a computer produced document. The House should recall that. I draw attention now to the definition of 'qualified person'. I refer specifically to paragraph (b) (ii) of the definition. I express my objection to the inclusion of the words 'or may reasonably be supposed to have had, personal knowledge of the facts stated'. I am not happy about it. I am certainly not going to move an amendment, but I hope that the courts would not be prepared to assume that persons who were alleged to be authors- I repeat 'alleged to be authors'- sometimes of small sections of many volumes of business records necessarily had personal knowledge of the facts stated. If we look a little further on we find that 'facts' includes 'opinion'. The person who made the record may have had it second, third, fourth or fifth hand. I do not think that any judge of any court, particularly any judge of the High Court of Australia, would be in a position to chide me for warning or urging courts to act with extreme care when using that provision. 
It seems to me that far too often people think that they are entitled to make assumptions about other people which they are not entitled to make. I draw attention to the words 'reasonably be supposed'. I am not even clear as to whether that is subjective or objective.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  somebody may have wonderful ideas about you and me but when he meets us in the flesh he may be sadly disillusioned. I simply draw attention to the fact that the Parliament presumes a little when it puts into an Act of Parliament a right for somebody to make what he thinks is a reasonable supposition but which may be totally or completely inaccurate. I say again to those in this House and those elsewhere listening to the debate that these are important matters. I contend as a matter of principle that somebody who expressed a supposition about me which was totally inaccurate would not be allowed to get off the hook simply because he said that he thought that it was okay. In questions of defamation the courts often say: 'You should have known better than to refer to the person who has been defamed in the terms that you used '. 
I refer now to sub-section (3) of proposed new section 7b, which states: 
In this section, 'fact' includes opinion. 
That will send shudders down the spines of many senior judges and many senior lawyers. Often witnesses are reprimanded or cautioned by a judge for expressing an opinion when they should have been stating fact or for mixing up opinion and fact. The importance of this is that if in 10 years time computers can not only work out the answers to problems but also express opinions we may very well find that, with mechanised evidence in the courts, a computer will actually express an opinion about a human being. People may think that I am being silly about this but I think that I am right on the ball. 
I simply repeat that I do not propose to move an amendment because as I will be saying at the conclusion of my remarks, I believe that the sound principles and the experience of courts will be the protection of the public with respect to this legislation. But it is axiomatic that this Parliament should not forget, when it has passed this legislation and put it on the statute book, that we should review it. For my own part I hope that the law and government committee of my party and the equivalent committee of the Australian Labor Party will keep a close look at this legislation, because we are doing some fairly startling things. I draw attention to the fact that our own Standing Orders prevent the expression of an opinion in questions which are asked in this House or which are put on the Notice Paper. I may very well argue at some future time whether, in line with the Evidence Amendment Act, the Parliament is prepared to withdraw the distinction between fact and opinion. 
Proposed new section 7c is clearly a wise provision because it will lead to the exclusion of selfserving statements. I said to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition before this debate commenced that perhaps there should be some discussion of white collar crime. It certainly would not be proper to go into it in detail but I make the point, which I think is a very important point, that once the white collar criminals of this country know that this legislation exists there will be great incentive for even more fabrication of documentary evidence. They will be able to have it admitted without having to call 20, 30 or 40 witnesses to depose to the facts. Therefore I say that proposed new section 7c is a very important section, and the courts would be well advised to make sure that the business records to be tendered are not self-serving documents prepared with improper intent. 
I say further, with respect, that sub-section (2 ) of proposed new section 7C is a very important one. I am referring specifically to sub-section (2) (b), which states that where documents are procuced the court must make sure that it gets all the documents. There is a power to reject a statement or document, as the case may be, if the court is not satisfied that it has all the documents. There would be nothing worse than having a situation created in which some documents went in and some poor wretch was convicted or suffered a serious defeat in the civil jurisdiction because all the documents had not been produced to the court. 
I turn to the last four proposed sections upon which I desire to make some comments. Proposed section 7F is very important because it gives to the court- indeed the court already has the function but this proposed section restates it- the duty of assessing whether or not it should give great weight or little weight to the evidence which has been tendered in accordance with this legislation. I repeat: One cannot cross-examine a document; one cannot ask it difficult and embarrassing questions; one cannot see it pause as it tries to think up an untruthful answer in the witness box. I urge the courts in the administration of justice that in the application of this legislation they be very, very careful- as indeed they always are- to ensure that undue weight is not given to a particular document whereby a balance which should be there disappears and an injustice occurs. I will refer in a moment to a judgment of  Sir Harry  Talbot Gibbs, a Justice of the High Court of Australia, in Driscoll v. The Queen. I submit that that judgment ought to be read by all persons interested in the administration of justice. It bears out, in my respectful submission, the point that I have just made. 
Proposed section 7M is also important because it gives to the court- the Parliament should make it clear that it intended to give to the court on this basis- a discretion to reject evidence, which otherwise would have been admissible under this legislation, on the ground of unfairness. Having appeared in trials and having seen documentary evidence admitted and given weight which, with respect, is far beyond that which ought to have been given- in some cases perhaps a judgment or verdict has been affected thereby- I repeat that this power is granted specifically to draw to the attention of the court that if evidence is unfair the court should not hesitate to exclude it. 
Last but not least, in proposed section 7N a very important power is given, that is, to withdraw that document or record from the jury when the court is of the view that if the jury were to actually have it during its deliberations, the jury might give the statement undue weight. In that context, with the consent of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  I would seek to read and thereby have incorporated in  Hansard  an extract from the judgment of  Mr Justice  Gibbs in the case of Driscoll v. The Queen. I shall read from 5 1 ALJR at page 742. This was a case in which a man was convicted on the basis of an unsigned, very detailed record of interview which he disputed but which was taken into the jury room and accepted by the jury. The High Court of Australia upheld his appeal and quashed his conviction. As recorded on page 742,  Mr Justice  Gibbs said: 
. as a general rule such a record -  that is, a record of interview-  if unsigned, will add nothing to the weight of the testimony of the police officers who give oral evidence as to what was said in the course of the interrogation, and will in itself be of little evidential value. The fact that a police officer has sworn that the accused adopted the record makes it legally admissible, but it is for the jury to decide whether they are satisfied that the accused did adopt it and if they are not so satisfied they may not use it in reaching their decision. The fact that the record had been prepared would in most cases be of no assistance to the jury in deciding whether the accused person had adopted it. The mere existence of a record is no safeguard against perjury. If the police officers are prepared to give false testimony as to what the accused said, it may be expected that they will not shrink from compiling a false document as well. The danger is that a jury may erroneously regard the written record as in some way strengthening or corroborating the oral testimony. Moreover the record, if admitted, will be taken into the jury room when the jury retire to consider their verdict, and by its very availability may have an influence upon their deliberations which is out of all proportion to its real weight. For these reasons, it would appear to me that in all cases in which an unsigned record of interview is tendered the judge should give the most careful consideration to the question whether it is desirable in the interests of justice that it should be excluded. 

 His Honour  Mr Justice  Murphy went even further, and I agree with him. As recorded on page 743, he said: 
On the question of whether an unsigned record (as distinct from the oral account) of an interview should be admitted, a trial judge's discretion to exclude admissible evidence should generally be exercised against the admission of an unsigned record where the accused disputes its correctness. 
So we are legislating on pretty sound grounds and we are in line with the decision handed down by the High Court just a few months ago. 
In conclusion, whilst supporting the legislation, I would hope that for the next two or three years the courts in administering this new law should lean over backwards to use it only where injustice would be caused if it were not used. There is no substitute for oral evidence; there is no substitute for examination, cross-examination and re-examination; and there is no substitute for the judge's or the jury's view of the demeanour of the person in the witness box saying what he or she saw or heard. Oral evidence is still the best evidence. Records can be fabricated. The smarties, the white collar criminals in our community, will undoubtedly try to twist this legislation to their own ends. Provided the courts use it only when necessary and provided the safeguards to which I have referred are borne in mind, I believe that this is legislation appropriate to the administration of justice in the twentieth century which I am personally proud to support. 
It is indeed a privilege to follow the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  and the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  in this debate. I say without any fear of contradiction that the honourable member for St George was one of the finest back bench performers of the Thirtieth Parliament. The honourable member for Lalor has already made a most valuable contribution to this Parliament. I am delighted that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  will follow me in this debate. Rather than speaking ab initio about the details of the legislation and what it proscribes, I want to place myself on record in this national Parliament as indicating the things which it does not proscribe. The first and fundamental point I want to make is that there is nothing in this legislation that will prevent any Australian anywhere in this country from following, pursuing and fighting for any cause in which he or she believes in any of the four corners of this world. I think that is a point which must be made clear because some people in this country are unhappy about things in other parts of the world. As the honourable member for Lalor remarked, about the time that I and the honourable member for St George were born- and perhaps about the time that the honourable member for Lalor was born- people came from all parts of the world to fight in the International Brigade in Spain. They followed a cause from the four corners of the earth. 
I would like the people of Australia to know that nothing in this legislation will prevent me or you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  or any honourable member from going anywhere in the world to fight for a cause in which we have a belief and to which we have a commitment. The point of the legislation is to proscribe activities which we as a nation within the international community are obliged to proscribe if we are to have any proper system of good government in the world today. I do not believe that there would be an honourable member in the chamber who would disagree with me when I say that if we were to permit a system of anarchy to operate in this country which would act as a spring-board to launch an attack on the governments of other countries we would find ourselves in exactly the same position of criticism as those countries which have given safety, comfort and refuge to the international gangsters of this world who have engaged in hijacking for whatever cause. 
I do not believe that anybody in this Parliament would like to see Australia become a refuge for those people who come here for the sole purpose of engineering activity in the country from which they came or in other countries. I want to make what I believe is the most important point with respect to this Bill and it is perhaps the only reason why I am prepared to support this legislation. In the context of international implications of recruitment for service in armed forces in foreign countries, with respect to foreign incursions, the definition clause, clause 3, is all important. It states:  government', in relation to a foreign country, means the government recognised by the government of Australia as the lawful government of that foreign country. 
There is nothing in this legislation to prevent those people from the Baltic States of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia from doing whatever they can to free their countries from the yoke of Soviet imperialism and there is nothing to prevent those people who believe, as I believe, that the true government of the people of East Timor is yet to be determined from supporting those who wish to see an independent government and an independent state of East Timor. Provided that the Government of Australia has not recognised the de jure government of the country to which the Bill may well apply because of the activities of those who wish to go to that foreign country, no offence is committed. In the context of East Timor my friend the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  was quite correct when he said that, de jure, Portugal is still the government of that country. If there is no breach of de jure recognition, no offence is committed. 
I believe the question which people listening to this broadcast, and indeed honourable members in this chamber, will ask themselves is: Does this Bill cut across any of our traditional Australian liberties and rights? The answer clearly is in the negative. My honourable and gallant colleague the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  made a comment earlier in this debate concerning a question raised by the honourable member for Lalor with respect to war correspondents. Rhetorically he said: 'What about the situation of a man, say, like Wilfred Burchett? On which side would he be for the purpose of this legislation?' It is indeed a question which we should all consider carefully and seriously, but the point that I want to make above all other points is that this legislation would not have my support- would not have my vote- if it did anything to restrict the right of the Australian citizen, male or female, to follow a particular cause in any corner of the world. 
This legislation does not apply to anything that any of us individually might do. It does apply to the activities of those people who seek to utilise this country as a marshalling point for activity which this country cannot approve internationally. Of course many people believe that this legislation was introduced for the express purpose of dealing with what is known colloquially as the 'Rhodesian situation'. The 'Rhodesian situation' means many things to many people; but for the sake of the record I dare to express the opinion that legally there is nothing in this Bill to prevent any man or any woman if he or she so chooses from leaving this country today to serve in the armed forces of the present Government of Rhodesia if conscience so directs. I believe that that point should be made. I believe in fair play even if the point of view of the person whom I defend is against my own, and in fairness I should say that despite a welter of publicity in Tasmania approximately 18 months ago about an alleged Rhodesian military recruitment operation in southern Tasmania, I am not satisfiedindeed no proper evidence which would satisfy me has been produced- that any effort has been made to recruit men or women in this country to serve in Rhodesia in the present confrontation. 
Sometimes I wonder how legalistic- I suppose that for a lawyer to say this is some concession; on occasions we are judged properly to be fools and to be so technical and so legalistic- the world is becoming. The situation is that by legal entanglement we have involved ourselves in the Rhodesian situation- I say this without expressing any view one way or the other- in such a way that we mouth condemnation of an illegal regime and we mouth condemnation of an alleged internal settlement, but none of us in this Parliament this week- with the exception of one senator- has been game to mouth any condemnation of the fact reported this week in the United Kingdom Press that 25,000 guerillas are being trained under Soviet and Cuban tutelage for the express purpose of waging war on Zimbabwe, Zaire and Namibia. I sometimes wonder what consolation I would feel if I was wounded or indeed if I died and somebody said: 'Bad luck for you, the law was not on your side '. 
Since I have been in this Parliament, rightly or wrongly, to the pleasure or to the displeasure of people on both sides of the chamber, I have contended that the unlawful killing of people, whether it occurred in Timor, Angola, Africa, behind the Iron Curtain or outside the Iron Curtain is wrong and should be condemned. Do we in this Parliament and this country have the right to say: 'Unfortunately for you, my dear friend who has just been shot, the law technically is not on your side'. I repeat the fundamental point that there is nothing in this Bill that will prevent any individual in this country from following any cause in which he believes to any of the four corners of the earth. 
I turn now specifically to what the Bill proscribes. I believe it is important to indicate with some precision what the Bill proscribes, otherwise some very genuine and decent people will suddenly think that we have passed legislation which curtails their activities. Perhaps the first and most important point that I should make is that clause 6 sub-clause (4) states: 
Nothing in this section applies to an act done by a person in the course of, and as part of, his service in any capacity in or with- 
the armed forces of the government of a foreign country; or 
any other armed force in respect of which a declaration by the Minister under sub-section 9 (2) - 
I think that in passing I have picked up a drafting error- it should be section 9 sub-section (2)- is in force. 
I emphasise the point. It would be intolerable in Australia today if a person who either happened to be an Australian citizen or, as the Bill provides, a person not being an Australian citizen who is ordinarily resident in Australia were to be covered in any way by the provisions of this legislation. The second thing relates to subclause (3) of clause 6. 1 think that people ought to know exactly what we have legislated against. Sub-clause ( 1 ) of that clause simply provides: 
A person shall not- 
enter a foreign contry with intent to engage in a hostile activity against the government of that country; or 
engage, in a foreign country, in a hostile activity against the government of that country. 
I hope to deal with the point that my very good friend the honourable member for Hunter has raised, because intent is a critical part of this legislation. Sub-clause (3) reads: 
For the purposes of sub-section (1), engaging in a hostile activity against the government of a foreign country consists of doing an act for the purpose of achieving any one or more of the following objectives (whether or not such an objective is achieved): 
My colleague from Hunter, with his professional experience, will be well and truly aware that the second part of that sub-clause- 'whether or not such an objective is achieved'- in fact refers to an attempt. It is the draftsman's way of referring to an attempt. The sub-clause continues: 
the overthrow by force or violence of the government of the foreign country; 
causing by force or violence the public in the foreign country to be in fear of suffering death or personal injury; 
causing the death of, or bodily injury to, a person who- 
is the head of state of the foreign country; or 
holds, or performs any of the duties of, a publicoffice of the foreign country; or 
unlawfully destroying or damaging any real or personal property belonging to the government of the foreign country. 
Those who believe there ought to be a separate Croatian state would be covered by this legislation if they were to travel to Yugoslavia for the purpose of either overthrowing the government or assassinating  President  Tito. That point should be well noted. Whatever happens to them in that other country, as the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  said, if they return to this country they would be subject to punishment. Could we have it otherwise? Could we accept in Australia today that, if a person did not agree with the policies of  President  Carter, it would not be an offence in this country for that person to fly to America and attempt to assassinate  President  Carter? I might not agree with everything  President  Carter says, but we would be barbaric, uncivilised and in breach of our international obligations if we did not have a provision within the law of this country to say that such action was an offence. I hate, loathe and detest the heads of communist puppet governments in the Baltic States, in Poland, in Czechoslovakia, in Hungary and in countries behind the Iron Curtain. But there is a right way and a wrong way to deal with the problem. The wrong way is for people to go into those countries and seek to assassinate the heads of state. 
This legislation comes to this Parliament as a result of Australia's endorsement of an international treaty, although I do not believe that is stated in the explanatory notes. This Bill is correlative to- part of a package deal, I might sayother legislation passed by this Parliament last year which dealt with crimes against visiting heads of state who come to Australia. If  Mr Desai  had been assassinated when he attended the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting would any person in this Parliament or any person in the country have said that had the assassin escaped to a treaty country from which people can be extradited to Australia but from which they could not be extradited to India he should not have been brought back to be dealt with in this country? 
It is not an understatement to say that because this is novel legislation- I say 'novel' in the legal sense of new legislation breaking new grounds -it is possible to conceive of situations in which it could be argued that this legislation will work an injustice. I support the legislation because I believe we have a duty to do two things, and these two things are done by way of this legislation. Firstly, we should as a nation prohibit persons preparing for or engaging in incursions into foreign countries from Australia. Secondly, we should prohibit the recruiting within Australia of persons to serve in armed forces in a foreign country. 
Whilst some might be able from the armchair of academic opinion to say that this Bill poses one or two problems and it is not properly drafted in one or two areas, my view is that the Parliament should pass it and should keep it under the most close review and scrutiny. Insofar as I have any authority to indicate the view of the Government parties law and government committee I believe our committee would keep this Bill under the most close and conscientious scrutiny. Nobody should be heard in this Parliament to say that this Bill in any way takes away a right, which all Australians would recognise, to fight for a cause. 
-Whilst I oppose the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  may I be heard to say briefly that I believe, even though it may not have sounded to be so to those people who are listening, that this has been one of the most useful debates I have heard since I have been a member of the Parliament. It is the first occasion I can recall when points of view above and beyond party lines have been put on a matter of very great importance with respect to the legislation of this country. There would be no member of this Parliament for whom I have a greater respect and affection than the Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott).  But, with the greatest of respect to him, I say that he did less than justice to his brief. He said during the Committee debate tonight that those of us who did not agree with the point of view he expressed either had not read the Bill or were not opposed to terrorism. I want all honourable members in the chamber to know in short before this clause is passed what the Government, simply put, is seeking to do. Under clause 9, if a person is an Israeli citizen living in Australia, joins the Israeli Army and goes back to Israel, that person creates no offence. But, if I suggest to that person that he join the Israeli Army, I could be fined $10,000 and go to prison for 5 years. I wonder whether the Parliament intends to pass such legislation. 
I ask further What is the situation of a person who has dual nationality? A person may hold dual Israeli and Australian nationality. I do not believe that the Government intended that a person in this country should be sent to prison for S years for suggesting to someone that he might like to join the Israeli Army. I certainly do not support that proposition. I would support anybody who wants to join the Israeli Army and the independent State of Israel. If I go to prison for 5 years, that is fair enough. But do we really know what we are passing? I simply say that is the law we are passing tonight. I do not believe the Parliament really wants this to happen. It might not be a bad move to look at the Bill a little longer before we put it on the statute books. 
-This Bill is significant because it is the first legislation to come before the Commonwealth Parliament authorising the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation to guarantee the repayment of moneys which are used for the express purpose of the promotion, sale and consumption of Australian apples and pears and apple and pear products. It therefore gives honourable members on both sides of the House, not necessarily from the major State with regard to the production of the finest apples in the world, an opportunity to speak about the qualities of apples and pears and the need for government, both State and Federal, to engage in the active promotion of the consumption of Australian apples and pears. If every Australian were to eat one apple or one pear per day we would not have to export one apple from this country. It amazes me that we are producing in this country one of the finest products in the world and that few Australians bother to eat it. Quite frankly, whether we are talking about Tasmanian apples, Western Austraiian apples or New South Wales or Victorian pears for that matter - 
I referred to Victorian pears. The fact is, as the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  said- in fairness I must say that he has shown considerable interest in the apple and pear industry in recent times- that we are producing in this country a very fine product, and it seems to me that we ought to do something along the lines of the action taken in regard to the Australian rice industry only two years ago when a promotion campaign doubled the consumption of rice in this country in less than six months. 
The Australian Apple and Pear Corporation superseded the old Australian Apple and Pear Board. That change was brought in by the Whitlam Government. It was subject to very considerable criticism at the time because of the paucity of grower representation on the corporation. However, I think that in fairness most people would concede that the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation, despite the small grower representation, which was the decision of the previous Government, basically has done a very good job. It has been balanced by the activities of the Australian Apple and Pear Growers Association. 
I want to bring that aspect into the debate because it is a matter of some interest at the moment as to whether funding to that Association will continue from the proceeds which are obtained from growers by way of levy to enable the Association effectively to represent the views of growers within Australia. This is not a small matter. As I indicated a moment ago, because of the small grower representation on the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation, it is absolutely essential that the Apple and Pear Growers Association of Australia be continued. That organisation basically has to put the view of the growers. It can continue only if it continues to receive financial assistance by means of a proportion of the share of the money raised by way of levy. This matter is before the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  at the moment. I have no doubt that honourable members who represent fruit growing electorates have had representations from growers in their electorates to the effect that the Government should ensure that the Association continues to receive sufficient funds to keep it going by way of a share of the levy. I notice that one of my colleagues from the National Country Party does not agree but I am putting the view of Tasmanian growers. 
I am very pleased that the Country Party does agree. Indeed, it is very appropriate that we should agree on matters such as this because the Apple and Pear Growers Association is in a position to put a point of view on behalf of growers which would otherwise have been put if there had been greater grower representation on the Corporation. As the honourable member for Blaxland has said, the legislation covers the contingency of the Corporation's not having moneys in hand to apply at a particular point of time due to the seasonal operation of the fruit industry. I think it is very proper legislation. I urge the Corporation to do everything in its power to promote the consumption of apples and pears within Australia in addition to any promotion with respect to outside markets. 
My colleague the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck),  who will be following me in this debate, will no doubt refer to the need to promote the newly developing markets in areas other than zones A and B, being the traditional markets of the United Kingdom and Europe. We have great opportunities to develop markets for apples and pears in the Middle East. We have great opportunities to develop markets for apples and pears on the west coast of America. Above all, thanks to the efforts of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  we have I hope an opportunity to develop a market in Japan. The honourable member for Franklin, who is well renowned as one who has fought for the apple and pear industry in Tasmania and particularly in his own electorate, will follow me in this debate. I have much pleasure in supporting this legislation because it gives to the Corporation a power which was much needed. I conclude by saying that I hope that more Australians will eat an apple a day. If they were to do that the fruit industry in this country would revert to the position of strength that it held a few years ago. I know that that is the view of both sides of the House. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What was the outcome of the recent special Antarctic consultative meeting that was held in Canberra? What is the position concerning the proposed commission on Antarctic marine living resources? Is there any prospect of that commission being established in Australia- indeed, in Tasmania? 
I want to speak tonight on two matters concerning Tasmanian employment and the need for protection of a Tasmanian industry which, if it goes to the wall, will add 1,000 people to the list of unemployed in my State. I refer to the timber industry which has been the third most significant primary industry in Tasmania for many years. I do not believe that any honourable member on either side of the House wants to see the Tasmanian timber industry go to the wall. I do not believe that any honourable member on either side of the House wants to see 1,000 people added to the list of unemployed in my State of Tasmania. I feel compelled to speak out even though this matter is presently before the Industries  Assistance  Commission because a decision adverse to Tasmania on the question of tariff duty for dressed timber imports could have such a dramatic and devastating effect that any member of parliament who failed to speak up and at least bring his views to the attention of the LAC and the Parliament would be failing in his duty. 
I speak on this matter with the support of my Tasmanian colleagues. We have been concerned over a period about what is happening to the timber industry and the threat not only to the Tasmanian timber industry but also to the Australian timber industry as a result of increases in imports of dressed timber and of the likelihood of a reduction in tariff duty. The present situation is that the tariff duty payable on dressed timber imports which come into this country is 22.5 per cent. Submissions have been put to the IAC that that tariff should be reduced to 15 per cent. I contend not merely that it should be not reduced but that it should be increased to 50 per cent. I put that submission to the House with the support of the Tasmanian Timber Association and all other Liberal members from Tasmania in both this House and the Senate. 
Honourable members opposite ought to listen to the facts before they condemn out of hand a suggestion that the tariff ought to be increased, as I am suggesting, by more than 200 per cent. Four years ago the value of imported mouldings from Malaysia and the Philippines was $300,000 a year. This year it has risen to $4m and Tasmanian business is down 80 per cent because of those imports. In other words, as a direct result of increased imports of timber mouldings from Malaysia and the Philippines, Tasmania has lost 80 per cent of its business over the last four years. Only one week ago we saw in the electorate of Braddon, which is so ably represented by my colleague, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom),  the closure of a timber business employing some 60 persons. Indirectly, the number of people affected by this closure would be well over 100. I speak with some little authority on this matter. The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  would know-- 
What a stupid, facetious, idiotic, twit-like comment from somebody who pretends to be concerned about unemployment. I am talking about saving 1,000 jobs and the best that the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  can do is come in here tonight and lairise in an impromptu speech about soccer and Sunday football. I think that 1,000 jobs are more important to this Parliament than any of his interjections and as far as I am concerned, I will speak whenever I believe that jobs in Tasmania are involved. I very much regret that the honourable member chose to make such a smart alec comment on this occasion. He is capable of doing much better things in this Parliament. Of course, his attitude is typical of the attitude of the Australian Labor Party to Tasmania, that is, do not give a damn about Tasmania except at election time and do not give a damn about how many Tasmanians lose their jobs. That attitude is the reason the Labor Party lost five Tasmanian seats in 1975, five Tasmanian seats in 1977 and will lose five Tasmanian seats at every election until the year 2000.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I am sorry that I digressed but that inane sort of interjection is typical of the Labor Party's completely callous attitude to the employment situation in Tasmania. 
As a matter of interest, the honourable member for Robertson might like to know that I am supporting, with one qualification, a submission put by the State Labor Government of Tasmania to the Industries Assistance Commission last week. It said that the tariff should be increased to 25 per cent; I say, and the Tasmanian Timber Association and my colleagues say, it ought to be increased to 50 per cent in order to protect jobs and to give an opportunity for the sort of recovery in the timber industry referred to in the Callaghan report. I do not believe that that report has been read by a single member of the Australian Labor Party. It puts forward the proposition that we can get back to full employment in our State. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable members 's time has expired. 
Yes. I wished only to ask, as a member of the Committee on Privileges - 
I am sorry. If the Minister for Defence wants to put that to me, I am going to reject it. As a member of the Committee I would like to know why this matter is being adjourned and why these people are going to have to wait until 5 May to learn the judgment of the House. It is a very simple question. 
I shall not detain the House. With the greatest respect to the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair),  I am entitled to ask a question as to why two citizens of this country have to wait until 5 May to receive judgment from this House. I want to say as a matter of record that justice delayed is justice denied. The report of the Committee on Privileges was presented by the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  last Friday and, for my own part, even if I am the only member of the Parliament who expresses the view, I do not think it right that people should have a matter as serious as this hanging over their heads until 5 May. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Did the Acting Minister for Industry and Commerce chair in this building last night a three-hour meeting between myself, the honourable member for Franklin, three Tasmanian trade union leaders and representatives of Dunlop Australia Ltd with reference to the future of Universal Textiles Australia Ltd at Derwent Park in Tasmania? At that meeting was there a frank and forceful exchange of views and should this meeting lead - 
Opposition members- Oh! 
-The Labor Party does not care about unemployment in Tasmania. It does not give a damn. At that meeting, was there a frank and forceful exchange of views and should this meeting lead to a more humane understanding of the welfare and, indeed, the future of the workers at Derwent Park? 
-I desire to report to the House that last night the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck), Mr Derek  Holden, who is the State Secretary of the Textile Workers Union in Tasmania,  Mr Paul  Houlihan, who is State Secretary of the Federated Clerks Union,  Mr John  Gyselman, who is State Assistant Secretary of the Australian Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union, and I attended a meeting which extended over a period of three hours with the executives of Dunlop Australia concerning the future of the plant of Universal Textiles at Derwent Park. For the benefit of the honourable member of Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  who is trying to interject, I point out that this is a matter about which he and the Labor Party should be concerned because at the present moment the plans are to retrench over 300 employees of Universal Textiles. The meeting was chaired by the Acting Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Macphee)  and was attended by senior industry and commerce officials from that Department, namely Messrs Currie and O'Shea. 
At that meeting the Dunlop representatives,  Mr J.  Gough and  Mr C.  Baird, stated that there was no specific help which their company would seek from the Federal Government to enable Universal Textiles to continue in full production. The company presently intends to close down the weaving and apparel printing sections at Derwent Park with a resultant loss of over 300 jobs. We were astounded to hear from the Dunlop executives the claim that the Derwent Park operation was hopelessly inefficient and unprofitable, and had been for three years. This was in direct contrast to the understanding I had held, and I know the honourable member for Franklin had held, since our election to Federal Parliament in 1975. We had both visited the plant of Universal Textiles at Derwent Park on a number of occasions since October 1975 and had arranged for Federal Ministers,  Mr John  Howard and  Mr Ian  Macphee, on separate occasions to visit Universal Textiles for the purpose of inspecting the plant and having discussions with the management. At no time in the past three years have we, as Federal members, been requested to seek any specific Federal assistance other than on the question of freight equalisation. 
Despite repeated requests at last night's meeting, the executives of Dunlop Australia were not prepared to put forward any specific request for 
Federal Government assistance to enable the operation to continue at full strength. In view of the alleged loss, which in our view in any event is comparatively small, the honourable member for Franklin and I can only express our surprise and deep regret that despite a three-hour discussion and repeated requests for specific details of possible assistance, Dunlop executives indicated their unwillingness to put forward even a last-ditch appeal. There can now be no doubt in anybody's mind that the decision to close the major part of the Derwent Park operation is Dunlop 's and Dunlop 's alone. Despite the attitude of Dunlop the honourable member for Franklin and I do not intend to abandon this matter. We will watch very closely how Dunlop acts over the next few weeks and how it responds to the strong representations we have made in this matter. In our view the matter is far from closed and our future attitude to this company will depend largely upon its conduct from this point of time on. 
In passing I might say that after the conference  Mr Holden  made the comment that he found current claims of unprofitability very hard to believe.  Mr Houlihan,  who is a moderate trade union leader, said: 'Given the total disregard that Dunlop has shown for its employees in this matter, it can expect little mercy from the trade union movement in its pursuit of proper, adequate and fair redundancy payments from Dunlop for the people who will be affected by this decision'.  Mr Gyselman  also expressed surprise to learn that Dunlop still had intentions to expand to the other States and that the machinery from Derwent Park would play a big part in these plans. He said: 'It was made quite clear by myself that for the time being at least the ban on moving of all machinery will stay'. 
The union leaders will report back to their members next Monday afternoon at 3 p.m. but in the meantime I want to put myself on record and my colleague the honourable member for Franklin on record as saying that we cannot, even today, say with certainty that we are now satisfied that we have heard all the facts, and some of the revelations last night leave us with considerable misgivings about the whole matter, and with a very nasty taste in our mouths. The responsibility for that situation, I must say, rests fairly and squarely on the shoulders of Dunlop Australia, which has hardly covered itself with glory with respect to its performance over the past few weeks. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 7 April 1978: 
1 ) Are statistics kept in the Australian Capital Territory as to the increased incidence of the crime of receiving stolen property. 
Is it a fact that if there were fewer receivers of stolen property there would be fewer thieves. 
Do former police officers as a result of their professional association with criminal elements receive confidential information which, if abused, would enable them to make contact easily with thieves for the purpose of actually receiving stolen property. 
Are any specific statistics kept in the Australian Capital Territory on the number of occasions the crime of receiving stolen property has been committed by a former police officer either of the Commonwealth or of a State Police Force. 
Has he personal knowledge of any recent case in the Australian Capital Territory where a former police officer has received stolen property and by implication openly admitted commission of the crime of receiving the stolen property by publicly referring to or actually openly producing in full public view the stolen property. 
Is the crime of receiving stolen property punishable in the A.C.T. upon indictment. 
Is the Minister for National Development aware of a Green Paper prepared by the United Kingdom Department of Energy earlier this year which reached certain conclusions with respect to the long-term future of fossil fuels? Does the Minister agree with the conclusions contained in the Green Paper? If so, what are the implications for Australia? 
I support the amendment moved by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon).  I will vote for it even if it involves crossing the floor. But before dealing with the fundamental principle which I believe is involved in a proper consideration of the amendment, I refer to three preliminary matters, simply to clear the air. The first is to point out that one month ago I did not know of the existence of Curran schemes. I had never had any personal contact with anybody involved with Curran schemes. Since finding out what a Curran scheme is, I want to point out from the outset that in my remarks today I will not attempt to defend the indefensible because I believe the Curran schemes are in fact indefensible. 
The second thing I point out is that I do not support people who engage in what has been described in debates in this chamber as 'tax rip-offs'. Without going into the legal details of the distinction between avoidance and evasion, I want to be heard to say that people who engage in tax rip-offs do not have my support, nor do people who deplete the Commonwealth revenues. I am on public record as having campaigned for lower taxation. 1 merely remind honourable members that as recently as the last Budget, I headed a small but significant backbench group which pressed for lower taxation. I congratulated the Government for the introduction of standard rate taxation and the reduction of the marginal tax rate at that time. 
The third thing I want to say is that I have already, on one occasion, publicly voted on the question of retrospectivity. With the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and one or two other members of this chamber, I was a delegate to the 1974 Federal Council of the Liberal Party of Australia, at which the Party platform which had been worked on for several months was presented to that Council and was adopted by that Council. In the months preceding the Federal Council Meeting, there was input from every State and, I believe, from practically every branch in Australia and every section of the platform was gone through in considerable detail. On the question of taxation, as I recall it, it was passed unanimously without a single dissentient vote. Included in the taxation section of the Liberal Party's platform was the passage referred to by the right honourable member for Lowe: 
The rights of the taxpayer are safeguarded by: 
ensuring that taxation adjustments do not have retrospective effect. 
My problem is simply this: Having voted for and strongly supported that proposition in 1974, I, bearing in mind the respect in which I hold my colleagues who take a contrary view, find it possible to vote publicly now for legislation which creates, as I will demonstrate, a precedent in Australia, because this is the first time in this country that legislation of this nature and the known implications of it passing are to be dealt with by the Parliament. 
-The honourable member for Macarthur assists me by saying 'Nonsense! ' With respect, I want to say to him that I do not see his remarks as nonsense and I trust that he will not see mine as nonsense when I say that we are within four years of passing unanimously a party platform on this question repudiating a fundamental principle in it. With the consent of the Opposition I seek leave to have incorporated - 
-I know that it has already been incorporated. I thank the Treasurer for telling me that but I have asked the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  if it could be incorporated in my speech and he has been kind enough to permit that to be done. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

TAXATION 
While recognising the key function of the tax system in providing revenue to finance government expenditure, the Liberal Party also recognises its significant roles in relation to economic management, minimising social hardship, and encouraging or discouraging specific areas of activity. The system must be easy to understand, simple and inexpensive to administer, fair in appearance and in practice, and subject to continuing review. 
The achievement of these objectives requires a tax system in which- 
. Taxation is equitable as between taxpayers in a similar position. 
The tax burden upon individuals has regard for their ability to pay. 
Individual incentive is encouraged particularly by ensuring that 
the burden of personal income tax is not excessive; 
adjustment is made from time to time for inflationary effects. 
Direct and indirect taxation is based on principles which will ensure maximum benefits to taxpayers with family responsibilities and those in low-income groups. 
The rights of the taxpayer are safeguarded by 
minimising discretionary powers and by asserting the fundamental right to be heard; 
assuring taxpayers a fair hearing before judicial and administrative bodies; 
maintaining confidentiality of information; 
ensuring that taxation adjustments do not have retrospective effect. 
Taxation adjustments, undertaken for general economic purposes, take full account of the effects on resource allocation and income distribution. 
There is continuity in application as it affects industry and commerce to maintain stability and permit effective forward planning. 
Commonwealth taxation policies are developed in harmony with State and local government tax systems. 
Taxation avoidance schemes will be eliminated. 
Tax evasion is a crime and will not be tolerated. 
Having already expressed my public view on the matter in 1 974, 1 repeat that I am not going to turn my back on that decision in 1978. I believe that the amendment ought to be agreed to and even though the numbers which support it in this Committee might be small, I believe the principle it represents is fundamental. I believe that the legislation, in its present form, is wrong for three reasons. I evidence them as follows: Firstly, it breaches a fundamental principle of law; secondly, it breaches a fundamental principle of our Party platform and thirdly- and I do not need to develop this argument- in my view it sets the most frightening and horrific precedent to be used and abused by any future Socialist government in this country. If honourable members do not believe me, I ask them to recall what they heard a few moments ago from the honourable member for Gellibrand and what they heard on Friday in this chamber from a former taxation officer, the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  Then let them tell me that it is not a fact that the Labor Party welcomes this action by the Government today. We are handing to the Labor Party on a silver platter a precedent which I believe has the most horrific implications. 
The question of taxation has bedevilled humanity since time immemorial. One finds in Luke, Chapter 2, verse 1, that: 
One day there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus, that all the world should be taxed. 
Nothing seems to have changed very much since those days. In the 17th century, Monsieur Colbert, who was the Comptroller-General of France under Louis XIV, said this: 
The art of taxation consists in so plucking the goose as to obtain the largest amount of feathers with the least possible amount of hissing. 
I suggest that that situation has continued through to today. In 1789, Benjamin Franklin said: 
But in this world nothing can be said to be certain, except death and taxes. 
Significantly I believe, Chief Justice John Marshall, in the famous McCulloch v. Maryland case back in 1 8 19 said: 
The power to tax involves the power to destroy. 

 - Mr Chairman, I shall not pursue that point. But I can assure you that it does involve a matter of considerable importance and principle. As evidence of the view that I take about this clause if it goes through unamended,  cite to you the proposition expounded to me in the Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam. I believe we should take note of what we are doing in this Parliament this day. We should recall that: 
The Moving Finger writes: and, having writ, Moves on: nor all thy Piety nor Wit shall lure it back to cancel half a line, Nor all thy Tears wash out a Word of it. 
We are putting on to the statutes of this nation today, a provision which I contend offends a fundamental principle of law and offends the philosophical and fundamental principles of the Liberal Party. I simply deal with the question of the law. I do not suppose that anybody in this chamber would argue with the principles of law as set out in Halsbury, 36th volume, third edition, where it simply says: 
The presumption against retrospection applies in general to legislation of a penal character . . . 
It goes on to set out a number of precedents and says: 
Fixed legislation similarly is subject in general to the presumption against retrospection. 
If we were in the United States of America, this situation would not be happening because section 9 of the United States Constitution states bluntly: 
No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law shall be passed. 
If we want to look at common law, we find at page 387 of Craies on Statute Law, these wordsand they are significant: 
Every law that takes away or impairs rights vested agreeably to existing laws is retrospective, and is generally unjust and may be oppressive . . . 
If we are not happy with that, we can refer to Maxwell on Statute. Again the proposition is clear, without any equivocation that: 
Upon the presumption that the legislature does not intend what is unjust rests the leaning against giving certain statutes retrospective operation. 
I need only quote on that matter from the decision of  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Dixon in the 
Maxwell v. Murphy case. But I know that the right honourable member for Lowe has already quoted from that case, so I shall not delay the Committee any longer in that regard. What I am saying is that whilst the Parliament has a right to do this, I suggest that it demeans itself when it passes legislation which, in essence, makes unlawful and subject to financial penalty something which was done, not only in accordance with the law but with the blessing of a High Court of Australia decision as long as four years ago. Are we not getting to the situation posed by Lord Hailsham, in his book,  The Dilemma of Democracy?  In that book he says: 
Since the sixteenth century and except in time of war, never has a Government possessed more power than it has today: 
He adds: 
The moment democracy ceases to pay attention to the limitations and restraints which all governments must observe, it ceases to be a form of free government and becomes an organ of tyranny . . . 
This Liberal Government will never become an organ of tyranny but the precedent we are setting provides the machinery for a future socialist government to act in a manner, according to the honourable member for Gellibrand, of passing legislation retrospectively, if necessary it says, up to several years retrospectivity. There is no limitation and once this principle is broken, it is broken. Once the door is opened and once a person gets his foot in the door, who is to say that a Socialist government in future times would act with any responsibility at all? 
Exactly. The right honourable member for Lowe makes the precise point: The standards of socialist governments are clear. We are not only breaching two fundamental principles, one of law which will therefore weaken the rule of law in parliamentary democracy, and one of our party platform, but also giving on a silver platter to a socialist government a precedent upon which it can wreck this country. 
-The attitude of the Australian Labor Party to this legislation is as predictable as it is disappointing. It has become increasingly clear in recent months that the Australian Labor Party has become quite paranoic about our new federalism policy because it sees that policy as a distinct threat, indeed a bulwark, to its centralist ambitions. Similarly, the Labor Party sees it as a policy which will lead to lower taxation throughout this nation, whereas it stands condemned not only by its performance between 1972 and 1975 but also more recently by statements made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  that indicate that the Labor Party is the party of high taxation. Let nobody in this House or in the nation forget that when the Labor Party gets hold of the treasury bench inevitably high taxation follows. 
The Labor Party has two basic objectives. One is to centralise power in Canberra because it believes that Canberra is the font of all wisdom and that what is decided in Canberra is good for the whole of Australia. The other is that it wants to see a system whereby it can tax without any restriction or inhibition. The Labor Party can get away with that only if it creates a situation in which the States become so weak, so mendicant, so powerless and so subservient that they can do nothing about it. From 1972 to 1975 we saw a major attempt by the Labor Party not only to impose its socialist policies in this country but also to centralise power in Canberra. It was stated in a document released before the 1975 Federal election that one of the first objectives of the Liberal Party was to restore federalism to this country and we are well on the way to achieving that objective. The passage of these two Bills tonight will effectively complete Stage I of the federalism policy and will leave the way clear for an implementation of Stage 2. 
Before dealing with some of the wilder statements of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  I say that it disappoints me that an honourable member of considerable ability who can speak in this Parliament rationally and calmly and who can speak with authority should have uttered some of the statements which the honourable member uttered tonight. They were statements which had no relation to the truth and no relation to the facts. Frankly, they were disappointing coming from the honourable member. The Labor Party will not like my doing this, but I take it back to a document which was prepared and circulated throughout Australia in September 1975 and which had a very distinct effect on the vote in the States of Tasmania, Western Australia and Queensland because it said in clear and unequivocal terms what we believed about federalism and what we would do if elected to power. In the federalism policy statement that was issued in September 1975- at that time one could not have foreseen the eventuality of 1 1 November 1975- we said to the people of Australia that in our federalism policy we would lay down a structure, a program, whereby it would restore true federalism to Australia and give back to the States and give to local government their proper right and entitlement to perform in accordance with the original functions that were designed for them at the time of the implementation of the Constitution. I shall simply read from the platform as it was published in September 1 975. It is important to remind ourselves of these statements and then to relate them to what we have done since we have come to power. The document states: 
The Liberal and National Country Parties view as the main objective of government the creation of a society and an environment in which individuals may best fulfil themselves. If this is to be achieved individuals must be free to participate fully in government and the forms of government must be decentralised to permit maximum response and involvement. Government must be brought as close as possible to the people. 
It went on to say: 
Federalism therefore is not a structural concept. Its principal justification is a philosophical one. It aims to prevent dangerous concentration of power in a few hands. In so doing it provides a guarantee of political and individual freedom. 
That spells out very clearly the distinction between the philosophy and objectives of the Government parties and the philosophy of the socialist centralists who were at that time occupying the treasury bench in Canberra. We went on to state in detail in that document the sort of things we would do if elected. In paragraph 4 (2) we said quite clearly that under the new federalism policy it was absolutely essential that the States be given access to a fair tax sharing program. In paragraph 5 we said that whilst income tax virtually selected itself as the obvious tax from which to give the States a share it did not mean that at some future time some other form of tax might not be considered. Finally, I need refer only to the details of the revenue sharing proposals, which occupied over one and a half pages in that policy statement. I refer now to Stage 2 of the federalism policy because it is relevant in view of the comments made by the honourable member for Gellibrand. In paragraph 7(2) this comment is made: 
In order to increase the budgetary independence, responsibility and flexibility of the States it is proposed that as soon as possible each State government - 
I emphasise these words-  will have discretion to impose a surcharge or allow a rebate on the total personal income tax of that State. 
That has been our policy since September 1975. It galls me to hear State Premiers making the son of statements they have been making recently which, quite frankly, are totally untrue and have no substance to them. In my humble opinion the New South Wales Government gained office on false pretences. It masqueraded to the people in the last New South Wales election that our federalism policy involved double taxation. That was a he. The people of New South Wales now realise how they were conned by  Mr Wran  and the Labor Party.  Mr Wran,  by parading as a paragon of virtue a few weeks ago and saying, 'We will not have a bar of Stage 2 because the Commonwealth will not force us to impose a State income tax', indicates that he either does not understand the federalism policy or is deliberately misleading the people. 
I think that the honourable member puts it very bluntly and very frankly. I have come to the conclusion that  Mr Wran  and, I regret to say, a man who is now the Acting Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Batt,  have deliberately misled the people. It is significant that the  Deputy  Premier of South Australia, for whom I have a high personal regard, has not made the same statements as  Mr Wran  and  Mr Batt. Mr Wran  and  Mr Batt  have lied in that they have said to the people that Stage 2 involves a second income tax or double taxation. The fact of the matter is that Stage 2 gives to the States the right-- 
It is a rarity in political life for a humble back-bencher to be able to participate in what could be the making of history. Equally it is rare indeed for a back-bench member of this House to be in a position to announce a development which may be of considerable significance. All members of this Parliament will be fully aware of my longstanding concern for the welfare of the people of East Timor, not merely because of Australia's debt of gratitude to them for their stalwart and loyal support in the dark days of World War II, but because I believe, and all Australians believe, in the sanctity of basic human rights, including self-determination and, of course, all of us would be concerned about the threat to Australia's integrity and national security posed by the continuation of major military action involving all forms of conventional warfare in an area that is less than half an hour flying time from Darwin. 
My views on East Timor have for over two years been made known to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  to the Government, to the Parliament and to the nation. In the debate on the Address-in-Reply on March 7 1 reviewed the Timor situation in considerable detail up to and following Australia's announcement of 20 January 1978. I do not wish to retrace history. What I want to say today to the Parliament is that I believe we may now be approaching the possibility of a negotiated peace settlement in East Timor. After bitter and intense fighting in East Timor, extending over two and a half years, and involving, in fact, the loss of up to 100,000 lives, a situation of stalemate- not dissimilar to that which occurred with the Timorese resistence to the Japanese in World War II- has now developed. 
A number of reports which have come to hand indicate that Indonesia's position with respect to East Timor may, in fact, be weaker today than it was three months ago, and the failure of Indonesia to capture such vital areas as the coffee growing area of Fatubesse and, in fact, losing other territory captured, seems to confirm reports coming in that a stalemate has definitely set in. 
I do not want to breach any confidence, or to reveal details of conversations and information which have come to me over the past few weeks. Suffice it to say that the situation may well be as described in a recent issue of the  International Bulletin,  published at Berkeley, California. I shall quote from a report which was submitted by  Mr Banning  Garrett. Referring to the war, he said: 
The war appears to be a stalemate. Fretilin cannot force Indonesia out of East Timor militarily, while Indonesia apparently cannot defeat Fretilin- at least not in the near future and not without an even greater commitment of troops and resources. And such a commitment would have to be made by Indonesia without any firm assurance of success. 
The next words are very important: 
Top Indonesian generals are known to be concerned about the costs of continuing the war and are discouraged about the prospects of winning. Reports suggest that some of the generals may be willing to pursue a negotiated settlement of the war. And talks with knowledgeable diplomats suggest that Fretilin is also interested in negotiations. These sources say that Fretilin is apparently willing to make concessions to Indonesia to secure withdrawal of Indonesian forces from East Timor and self-determination. Fretilin leaders are said to recognise that East Timor is located in an isolated part of the world between two powerful non-communist nationsIndonesia and Australia- and that the East Timorese must ultimately live and work with their neighbours. Fretilin is thought to be willing to consider licensed exploitation by Indonesia of its natural resources, including offshore oil reserves. Fretilin may also be willing to agree to close economic ties with Indonesia, and to abstain from supporting separatist movements in the vast Indonesian archipelago. 
I believe it to be a fact that on 15 April of this year in New York it was intended that there would be a meeting between an Indonesian General and Jose Ramos Horta, who is the representative of the Democratic Republic of East Timor at the United Nations. I believe that, because of circumstances beyond the control of both parties, that meeting did not take place. I also believe that there is a real probability that the meeting will, within the next week or so, take place on neutral territory. If there is a possibility of a negotiated peace settlement, I believe that Australia has a major role to play in it. I wish to propose an eight-point plan contingent upon the willingness of the parties to negotiate a settlement rather than to permit the continuing conflict to go on year after year, as it undoubtedly will, with no end in sight. 
1 would suggest that the obvious place, if negotiations are to occur, would be in Australia. 
The obvious chairman-mediator of those negotiation discussions should be our Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Honourable Andrew Peacock who, I respectfully submit, is a statesman of world eminence and a person who is highly qualified to chair such discussions. 
It is imperative that there should be an immediate cease-fire and withdrawal of both sides to proclaimed areas. 
In respect of those proclaimed areas the United Nations should send into East Timor, with the consent of both parties, a peace-keeping force to ensure that the military forces of each side are in fact contained therein. 
I suggest that the immediate admission of International Red Cross may now be very close to reality. I need merely refer to the fact that whilst Australia has repeatedly requested the admission of International Red Cross to East Timor, until today there has not been a positive response. It is indeed heartening to read a report today that following discussions between President Suharto and Vice-President Mondale, International Red Cross may now be admitted to East Timor. If that can be confirmed it is a step that I am sure honourable members on both sides of the House will welcome warmly. 
A situation could now be reached in which, if negotiations could be brought about, there should be a renewal of the requests by Australian members of Parliament to make not an unofficial visit but, in fact, an official visit, to East Timor. 
I believe it would be the wish of all parties, if there is to be a negotiated settlement, that there should be a proper act of selfdetermination in accordance with international law, to let the people of East Timor decide for themselves. I have not the slightest doubt that if the vote were to go in favour of integration of East Timor with Indonesia, and the vote were properly conducted, it would be accepted by the representatives of Fretilin. (8)1 want further to submit that in the longterm future integrity of the Democratic Republic of East Timor could be well safe-guarded by the making of treaties between the Republic, Indonesia, Australia and Papua New Guinea. 
We three nations, Australia, Indonesia and Papua New Guinea, virtually surround East Timor. We believe it to be the wish of people of good intent in those three countries- and I include President Suharto in these remarks- that the integrity of East Timor could be maintained. It is indeed heartening to believe- and I do believe it to be the fact- that we could in this day and age sit down around a conference table and reach a situation where bloodshed would be ended, death would cease and destruction and devastation be brought to a conclusion. 
I do not wish to raise hopes unjustifiably. I am fully aware that there have been discussions on both sides of the fence on possible negotiations for a peaceful settlement. I am also aware that there has been argument whether a settlement negotiated by the representatives of Fretilin outside East Timor would be accepted by the Fretilin forces inside East Timor. I believe that  President  Nicholau Lobato is now in a situation where he would be prepared to consider entering into negotiations. In my view, it is obvious that if negotiations are to take place Australia has a major role to play. I say with the utmost confidence that Australia's integrity in this matter, notwithstanding heartburnings about the decision of 20 January, is high. The status and standing of the Minister for Foreign Affairs is high within the Pacific area, indeed throughout the world. 
I ask the Australian Government to watch closely the developments over the next few weeks and to be prepared to come forward to assist. Please God,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if the situation does develop where negotiations can take place, I hope that Australia will stand ready to play a vital role in ending a war which has been a matter of great concern and distress to every Australian, regardless of his party political persuasion. I trust that the Government will watch the matter closely and act with speed and impartiality if the call is made to our nation to mediate in this most important matter. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1) Is it a fact that when a single pensioner's outside income exceeds $33 per week and a married pensioner couple's income exceeds $57.50 per week, all fringe benefit entitlements of that pensioner, or pensioner couple, completely cease. 
If so, were the figures of $33 and $57.50 per week set in 1973. 
Have the figures been subject to any review by the Government or any other body since that date to take into account increases in the cost of living. 
Has consideration been given to the introduction of a scheme to taper-off fringe benefits as soon as income reaches a specified figure instead of the present system whereby all fringe benefits cease immediately the figures of $33 and $57.50 a week are exceeded. 
Is it a fact that persons in receipt of State superannuation are, with the exception of New South Wales, not permitted to renounce their increases of superannuation where to accept an increase would lead to forfeiture of all pensioner fringe benefit entitlements. 
In view of the widespread use of the pensioner medical service card for transport concessions, local government rates rebates, etc and the obvious injustice of the present system where many pensioners who have enjoyed fringe benefits over a number of years suddenly lose them as the direct result of a superannuation increase, to which a prudent spouse has contributed many thousands of dollars over many years of working life, will the Government give urgent consideration to reviewing the present system in pre-Budget discussions with a view to (a) substantially increasing the present levels of $33 and $57.50 respectively, (b) possibly indexing the figures to take into account future increases in the cost of living and (c) possibly introducing a tapering-off system whereby pensioners do not lose all fringe benefit entitlements in one fell swoop. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
1 ) Has the Government 's attention been drawn to the public comments of an Indonesian diplomat in Port Moresby that if Indonesia wanted to invade Papua New Guinea it would do it now when Papua New Guinea is still weak and that it would not wait until later when Papua New Guinea becomes strong; if so, what is the Australian Government's attitude to this statement. 
Is he able to state whether the diplomat in question was saying out loud what the Government of the Republic of Indonesia has been thinking for some time. 
Will the Government, on the information in its possession, assure the people of Australia that they are not likely to see in Papua New Guinea a repeat performance of what is known to have happened in East Timor. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 April 1978: 
In order to promote increased consumption of Tasmania's Cascade beer by non-Tasmanian members of the Federal Parliament, will he ascertain what freight equalisation payments currently apply to the interstate export of Tasmanian beer bearing in mind that a half can of Cascade beer is currently retailing in the Parliamentary Bar at a price of 6 1 cents. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 12 April 1 978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that on the afternoon and evening of 23 March 1978 a number of commercial airline flights in and out of Tasmania were either delayed for several hours or simply cancelled, and that on 10 April 1978 flights from Tasmania were again delayed, jeopardising the attendance of Tasmanian members and senators at the Federal Parliament. 
) Will he now give a firm directive to the major commercial airlines that where through shortage of planes or any other reason flights have to be delayed or cancelled, flights to and from Tasmania shall be exempted and shall not be delayed or cancelled, bearing in mind the fact that Australians living on the mainland have access to alternative road and rail transport. 
-I seek leave to make a brief personal explanation. 
I do. In the Indonesian newspaper  Sinar Harapan  of 19 May and in the Indonesian  Times  of the same date I have been seriously and grievously misrepresented although the publications are read many miles from Canberra and even further from my electorate of Denison, I, and I believe of any other member of the Parliament - 
Yes, I shall.  Mr Speaker,  because your indulgence does not permit me to debate the entire article - 
I am about to do so,  Mr Speaker.  I turn immediately to the specific statements referring to me. In one article it is said that I wish to help terrorists. In the other article it says: 

 Mr Hodgman wants to defend terrorists. 
Neither of those statements is true and I strongly resent both of them. My total opposition to world-wide terrorism is well known to all honourable members. A reference to General Business Notices of Motion Nos. 1 and 12 clearly repudiates the Indonesians' propaganda lies on this matter. Finally, I have never supported, nor will I ever support, terrorists or acts of terrorism anywhere. The attempt to smear the people of East Timor and brand them terrorists is beneath contempt. 
I fail to understand the remarks of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  on what is a very clear and straightforward amendment. With respect to the honourable member for Robertson, it is all very well for him to criticise the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  and accuse him of not having read the Bill. I would have thought, after reading the amendment and reading clause 13 as it was originally drafted, that the honourable member for Robertson would have welcomed the Senate's amendment because it is fundamental and in my humble opinion once again we are seeing in this debate the clear delineation between the centralists on one side of the House and the federalists on the other. 
I simply refer to clause 13 to remind the honourable member for Robertson that the right of the Governor-General only accrues when he is satisfied that the health or safety of persons or the environment is likely to be harmed by a situation resulting from nuclear activity that exists in a State or Territory, and where there is not already legislation enacted to cover the situation. He therefore gives to the Minister a power to act in an executive capacity. All the Senate's amendment says is that the Governor-General will not do that in a State without the approval of the State Government as indicated through the State Governor. What is wrong with that? 
Is the situation once again that the people on the other side of the House have come to the conclusion that the font of all wisdom is Canberra and the people of the rest of Australia are idiots who do not know how to run the country? I say with the utmost respect to the honourable member for Robertson, for whom I do have a regard, that he did himself less than justice on this occasion because I would have thought it was fundamental, if a State government was not consulted on this matter, one could have executive power at Commonwealth level used without any restraint at all. I do not believe that the honourable member for Robertson really intended that to be the event. I do not believe therefore that he intends to oppose the amendment because the amendment is frankly safe. It gives a proper basis for executive action with the check that 
State governments will not be overridden by any executive person in Canberra. I believe the amendment must be supported by all those who believe in the Commonwealth of Australia, who believe in federalism, and it will be opposed by those who are determined to turn this country into a centralist republic. 
-Let there be no doubt in the mind of any person in the Australian nation today that the greatest threat to world peace is the ominously developing military build-up of Soviet Russia. Nowhere is this more starkly evident than in the continent of Africa. I fear Soviet Russia and so should every Australian who cherishes our basic freedoms, our way of life and indeed the very integrity of the Austraiian nation. 
Russia 's militaristic expansionism which in the past has been sometimes clandestine and otherwise clumsily concealed is now blatant and arrogant. This nation and most of the free world sleeps and slumbers in blissful apathy while foul deeds are done only a few hours away from our shores. It makes no difference to me whether or not the Russians choose to act in their own right or through surrogates like Cuba and East Germany. Let Australians wake up and know the facts. The brutal military aggression, genocide, murder, rape, looting and devastation of property in no less than five out of seven military conflicts in Africa today have been inspired, master-minded and executed at the direct behest of the Kremlin. Soviet Russia bears an awful responsibility to humanity for what it has done and is continuing to do on the African continent. Its greatest international crime has been to molest the infant democracies in that continent as they struggle towards maturity. Russia, the great per.verter of freedom and truth, looks with lustful eyes at the virgin treasures of these under-age but nevertheless sovereign States. But even then, like the traditional corrupter of youth, it cannot resist the use of surrogates to perpetrate some of its more disreputable outrages. 
No one can be really surprised at the atrocities in Kolwezi and Zaire of last week. We have seen them coming for months, if not years. Only five weeks ago, Norman Kirkhan, in a report in the London  Daily Telegraph- A  report never contradicted by Russia- revealed, not for the first time I believe, but for the third time, that the Soviet Union had set up a guerrilla training camp in Angola. The article is worth recalling at this point. It reads: 
The Soviet Union has reportedly set up a secret training camp in Angola for 25,000 African guerrillas who will form armies to attack Zimbabwe (Rhodesia), Zaire and Namibia. 
Teams of Soviet and Cuban advisers have moved into Missao de Boma, in south-eastern Angola, to instruct the men in the use of field guns, surface to air missiles, rocket launchers and other heavy equipment. 
The pupils are members of  Mr Joshua  Nkomo 's faction of the Zimbabwe African Peoples Union (ZAPU), the Southwest African Peoples Organisation (SWAPO) in Namibia and also include units of the Katanganese rebels who attacked the Shaba province of Zaire last year. 
On 6 April in this House I predicted that the order of attack would be Zaire, Namibia and Zimbabwe. I stick to that prediction. For how much longer can the Australian nation ignore the statement by our own Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  that in 1 977 Soviet defence spending exceeded that of the United States of America by about 25 per cent. The Minister went on in his statement of 9 May to say: 
While we do not discount the real defence needs of the Soviet Union, we cannot fail to be concerned at the apparent Soviet military build-up. 
On page 23 of the statement the Minister went a little further. I shall quote from the statement because I believe this passage sums up the remarks I make tonight. Talking about activities in the Horn of Africa,  Mr Peacock  went on to say: 
There has been a large build-up of Soviet and Cuban military equipment and personnel which has clear implications for the balance of forces in the region. It is regrettable, to say the least, that this build-up is taking place while the Soviet Union is engaged with the United States in substantive negotiations on arms control in the Indian Ocean. Now that Somali Government forces have withdrawn from Ethiopia the continuing presence of Soviet and Cuban military personnel can only hamper the search for peace, and we look to their withdrawal. 
It is complete and utter hypocrisy for Soviet Russia to approach the pending disarmament talks and at the same time continue the military build-up which has now reached such proportions in Africa that Australia might very well find that the entire western seaboard of the Indian Ocean is under strategic Russian control within the next two or three years. People who talk about the Indian Ocean being a zone of peace in that situation with Russia in control of the western seaboard, ought to take the psychiatric advice which is available to them under Medibank. Let there be no doubt that Russia poses today the greatest threat to the peace of the world and unless it is stopped we will be at war. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 8 May 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report in the Ho bart  Mercury  of 4 May 1978 in which the State Labor Treasurer and now Acting Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Batt,  is reported as saying that his Government will entirely resist the imposition of a State income tax. 
Is there anything in the forthcoming legislation or in Stage II of the Government's federalism policy which will compel any State to impose a tax surcharge or grant a tax rebate. 
-My question is directed to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. In the light of Soviet Russia's minimal human rights obligations under the 1975 Helsinki Accord, what assessment has Australia made of the genuineness and sincerity or otherwise of Soviet Russia following the fake trial and savage sentence of imprisonment imposed on  Dr Yuri  Orlov? 
-I agree with the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite).  I view the amendment, of the Opposition as an exercise in cant and hypocrisy. It can be branded only a diabolical combination of fraudulence, scare tactics and political chicanery of the worst kind. What is it that motivates the Opposition to behave in this way? It is jealousy and envy because this Government has restored to this country the federalism which Labor took away from the people between 1972 to 1975. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  is an act of hypocrisy in itself. It starts off with the scare tactic by claiming that the real level of payments to the States will be reduced. What a lot of rubbish. The honourable member for Gellibrand has not even noticed that under the amended arrangements for the new federalism, the proportion going to the States from income tax collections is to be increased from 36 per cent to 39.7 per cent. So how there can be a reduction when there is an increase of roughly 3 per cent is completely and absolutely beyond me. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand claims that this Stage II legislation has been condemned by every State Premier, except the Premier of Western Australia. Nothing could be further from the truth. At three Premiers Conferences in 1976 every State Premier agreed to the guidelines laid down, including the introduction of Stage II. I draw to the attention of the House the fact that between the second and the third of those Conferences there was a change of government in New South Wales. Whilst  Sir Eric  Willis was the Premier of New South Wales for the first two Conferences, by the time the third Conference came along  Mr Wran  had become the Premier of New South Wales. Did  Mr Wran  ask for any of these provisions to be reconsidered? Did he ask for any of them to be re-drafted? No, he did not. He had won his election on false pretences, on a scare campaign of double taxation. Mark my words, he will try it again later this year. He will go to the people of New South Wales and repeat the untruth that under Stage II of the federalism policy it will be mandatory for the States to impose a surcharge.  Mr Wran's  hypocrisy must be exposed and must be nailed to the wall here and now, because this great champion of lower taxation, this man who says he wants to reduce the burden on the people of New South Wales, has to my certain knowledge never made a public statement conceding that under Stage II of the federalism policy he can in fact exercise his rights to grant a rebate. 
I briefly want to refer to some figures to rebut completely the extraordinary speeches by the honourable member for Gellibrand and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  First and foremost, this financial year an amount of $4,336. lm has been provided to the States under the tax sharing arrangements. That represents an increase of 16.8 per cent- well above the inflation level. Yet the Australian Labor Party continues to say that payments to the States are being reduced. What have we done in respect of the Loan Council? The Loan Council funding for the States in 1977-78 was increased by $685. lm; an increase of 14 per cent. Yet Labor still claims that we have reduced payments to the States. There has been an increase of 18.1 per cent in payments to local government. Total general purpose payments, total specific purpose payments and total payments to local government for the States are in excess of $10 billion, which approximates half the total Budget outlays. 
The second part of the amendment says that the States will be forced to introduce a State income tax. I can do no more than draw the attention of honourable members to the short and precise reply by  Sir Charles  Court to that lie, because the day after  Mr Wran  repeated his propaganda he  Sir Charles  Court nailed him to the wall and  Mr Wran  has lost his tongue ever since. The third part of the amendment says that there will be cuts in employment opportunities. If any party in this Parliament is an expert on unemployment it has to be the Labor Party. This is the sort of prophesy of doom upon which Labor supporters thrive. This is the sort of scare tactic that they have been running around this country with ever since we gained office in 1975 and were reelected in 1 977. Not only are they centralists, not only are they socialists, but also they are prophets of doom, Jeremiahs and Jonahs waiting by the minute for the next unemployment figures, hoping that they will be able to stand up and say: 'Look, the figures have gone up'. This Government is committed to a return to full employment, unlike the people on the other side who have used political tactics to turn unemployment into the cheapest political issue that this country has known, and that is why Labor polled so badly in 1975 and in 1977. I have nearly finished. Quite frankly there is not much to answer from the other side of the House. Paragraph (d) provides that capital works will be further reduced. What does the Opposition hang that part of the amendment on? It refers to a speech delivered on Monday night in which the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  simply reiterated that this Government intended to stick to the economic policies which have already cut inflation in half in this country in less than three years. This is the sort of scare tactics in which the Labor Party revels. The fact of the matter is that we will have an increase in capital works in this country only when we return to economic prosperity. We will achieve that result by pursuing the present policies. Last but not least paragraph (e) states: 
The standard of services offered at the State level will decline. 
What a lot of poppycock. Last year every State government in Australia finished with a Budget surplus and every State was able to reduce State taxation. Members of the Opposition should not talk about the States having to cut back on their services. The States have more money in their pockets today than they have ever had before. Not only are the States not cutting down on services; the fact is that State services are on the up. We heard the old line from my old friend the honourable member for Reid who still believes that centralism is the answer. He still believes that socialism is the answer. 
-Of course he is a socialist. He does not deny it. The trouble with the Labor Party is that it is not only small but also it is miserable, mingy, and tired. The members of the Labor Party are like a cracked record made back in the 1920s. They are the prophets of doom, the people who are so annoyed and so furious that we have restored federalism to this country. I believe that the amendment moved by the Opposition is not worth the paper on which it is printed. It deserves to be torn up, which I now do. I hope that it is thrown out with a thumping majority on this side of the House. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Willis's amendment)  stand pan of the question. 
My question, which is particularly important, I address to the Minister for Productivity. 
Opposition members- Oh! 
If the Labor Party cared at all about Tasmania it would realise how important it is. My question is: In view of Tasmania 's proven capacity to produce high quality scientific equipment, as demonstrated in the manufacture of precision instruments in World War 2, will the Minister give the most detailed consideration to the possibility of InterScan utilising Tasmanian resources in the proposed manufacture of parts for the InterScan aircraft landing system, involving the possible formation of a CommonwealthStateprivate enterprise consortium to establish in Tasmania this manufacturing operation, which the United States of America authorities assesses as being worth more than $200m during the next decade? 
-My remarks will be brief. At this stage of the Committee debate I relate them only to the amendments moved by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham).  I found the amendments in globo to be quite contradictory and confusing. There is an expressed intention by the honourable member- I do not doubt his good faith- but because of the way in which it has been presented to this Parliament I would be less than frank if I did not say that he would be capable of being misjudged. On the one hand he claimed to give a greater right of selfgovernment to the Northern Territory, and on the other hand he brought in amendments which, if passed, would have the effect of keeping the Northern Territory on a leash like a little dog with Canberra as the master. The effect of these proposals would be virtually to give the Northern Territory double government. Not only would there be the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, but also the Commonwealth Parliament of Australia would be there as a watchdog. 
The honourable member said that if the Governor-General does not grant assent to legislation it does not matter whether those Bills come into this Parliament. It does not mean that they will be debated in Canberra. What an offensive situation that would be, to bring them in and let them lie on the table. One of my colleagues remarked that they could sit there for 15 sitting days. That could mean a period of up to three months. What would happen if the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly in Darwin passed legislation which on 2 June the GovernorGeneral said that he would not give assent to it? Under the amendment of my colleague, the honourable member for Capricornia, the legislation could sit in this Parliament gathering dust and cobwebs for three months. Is that really what the Labor Party wants for the Northern Territory? I do not believe it is. I have great faith in the honourable member. He knows that I have expressed views about his capacity as a Minister in the former Labor Government. He was a very good one. I am certain that he does not appreciate the implications of the amendments that he has introduced. As I said a moment ago, they are completely contradictory and confusing. Above all they indicate an underlying inability of the Labor Party to recognise what is meant by selfgovernment for the Northern Territory. 
Quite frankly, the Labor Party looks back with longing eyes to the days of 1972 to 1975 when the Northern Territory became but a colony of Canberra. Self-government is contrary to the centralist principles of the Labor Party and to every objective it has enunciated in this Parliament over many years. It does not fully appreciate that the Northern Territory has now come of age and is entitled to self-government in its own right. Because the debate will be an abbreviated one I conclude my remarks by saying simply that whatever the good intentions of the honourable member for Capricornia, the amendments taken as a group completely cut across the entire principle of the Bill. We have just agreed to the second reading of the Bill. Were we to agree to any of the amendments, quite frankly, we would weaken the vote we have just taken in this chamber. 
I would like to support the remarks of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson). 
Progress reported. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-With the utmost respect to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  I do not agree that all of these six Bills are necessarily machinery measures. I do not intend to address any remarks to the Administrative Changes (Consequential Provisions) Bill, the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve Amendment Bill or the Acts Interpretation Amendment Bill. I do, however, wish to speak to the Ordinance and Regulations (Notification) Bill, the Statutory Rules Publication Amendment Bill and the Seat of Government (Administration) Amendment Bill. The three Bills that I have just referred to are Bills which have been brought into the Parliament to validate certain Acts which have been raised in proceedings in the High Court of Australia in respect of alleged offences against the banking foreign exchange regulations. 
Whilst I have no objection at all to the validation of matters which have been brought to the attention of the Parliament and the Government, I want to take a little of the time of the House tonight to applaud the fact that in this case the validation has not been made retrospective. I say that in the shadow of recent legislation that has passed through this House and coming into the Senate, which had a retrospective effect. I do not need to refer to the long list of authorities at common law, to international treaties or United Nations declarations with respect to the effect of retrospective legislation. 
-Notwithstanding the remarks of my honourable colleague the member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  who has been unusually misguided on this question of retrospectivity, with the greatest respect to him I applaud the fact that in this instance the Government has gone out of its way to ensure that the validating legislation shall not be retrospective and shall not in any way interfere with the question which is before the High Court of Australia for judicial determination at this point of time. 
It is not unknown for governments in less enlightened countries than Australia to change the laws of the land while there is a case on those laws before the courts of the land.  (Quorum formed).  The quorum bells rang for nearly two minutes and the net product is two members of the Australian Labor Party. What a bunch of galahs they are. If this debate was on a television program the people of Australia would see the Government benches packed and two members of the Australian Labor Party sitting opposite. The cream of the joke is that I had only 15 seconds to go when the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  called a quorum. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I willingly concur with what you have just said. The honourable member for Hughes would probably not even be aware that we are dealing with the Ordinances and Regulations (Notification) Bill, the Statutory Rules Publication Amendment Bill and the Seat of Government Administration Amendment Bill, none of which means anything to the Australian Labor Party. 
-They would not have a clue. Not only do they hate Tasmania but they do not pay attention to important legislation which comes into this Parliament. I just wanted to make the point that it is refreshing to note that on this occasion the Government has not legislated retrospectively. I thank the Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  for going out of his way, in conjunction with his colleague the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack),  to make sure that this legislation is not retrospective. It is pleasing indeed to see Ministers of the Government recognising that our party platform is clearly and unmistakably against retrospectivity. 
I was about to refer to the added problem of when legislation is necessary on a matter which is before the highest court in the land. Honourable members will recall the IPEC case which many years ago went not only to the High Court of Australia but, indeed, to the Privy Council. During that case a government took action to amend the very regulations which were under judicial consideration. I want to say for the sake of the record and for history- and we still have only two Labor members present - 
-I am sorry, two and a half. This Government has a firm commitment not to alter the law when a question of law is before the highest court in the land.  (Quorum formed.)  Mr Deputy Speaker,  before I conclude my remarks I want the people of Australia to know that after the calling of two quorums we have a grand total of three members of the Australian Labor Party present in the chamber but that the Government benches are absolutely packed. I rose to speak to this Bill for three reasons - 
-The question before the House is one of fundamental principle. I could have disposed of it in three minutes. Yet two quorums have been called which means that the Australian Labor Party once again has demonstrated to the people of Australia that it would not recognise a principle if it tripped over it. It would not recognise a principle if it tripped over it in the middle of the night. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, might I say without provoking the former  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  that the fact of the matter is that I have had a better audience on my side of the House tonight than he has had on his side of the House for the last six months. The question of principle is one which bears repeating at this point of time. I congratulate the Government on not making the provisions of this legislation retrospective. I also congratulate the Government on not changing the law while a question of importance is before the High Court of Australia. For those reasons I and all honourable members on this side of the House support with very much pleasure the legislation that is before this chamber tonight. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-Whilst having a very healthy regard for the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  let me say clearly to this Parliament and to the people of Australia that tonight the Labor Party has spoken with two tongues. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Whilst having a healthy regard for the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition let me say quite clearly tonight to this Parliament and to the people of Australia that once again we are witnessing the Australian Labor Party speaking with two tongues. Whilst the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition might well have been entitled to support the Bill in strictusensu before this Parliament, he made a number of gratuitous remarks which, I respectfully submit to the Chair were highly offensive to every single Croatian who has come to this country and made his or her home in this land. I find it regrettable that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, in speaking to this Bill, seemed to imply that those who had a dream of an independent Croatia were in some way inextricably tied up with the Ustasha, going right back to the 1920s and 1930s. I say, without any unkindness to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, that I take the strongest view that whether he intended it or not he smeared every single member of the Croatian community in Australia in his speech tonight. 
I rise to say briefly that, whilst I have a genuine affection for the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  I do not intend to withdraw one single word of what I said the other night about Soviet Russia or on previous occasions about the denial of human rights in Indonesia, Uganda, Uruguay and a host of other countries, but I stand on my record - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Veterans ' Affairs. Is it a fact that the Department of Veterans' Affairs, currently servicing thousands of Australian ex-servicemen and women, will not reach its peak workload for a few years yet and that therefore its national importance is increasing rather than decreasing? If these facts are correct, what is the Government's reaction to claims that the Department of Veteran's Affairs is losing significance, that it could be reduced or even abolished, and that it does not warrant its own Minister? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 29 May 1 978: 
1 ) Has he now received a report on the trial in Moscow last week of  Dr Yuri  Orlov. 
Is he able to say whether  Dr Orlov  was denied his basic right to defend himself, was harassed and publicly abused in court, and that the western press was excluded from these proceedings. 
Will the Government exert the utmost pressure to secure the immediate release of  Dr Orlov  from prison. 
If he has received a report on the trial, does it indicate whether the trial accords with the Soviet Union's claim to be taking human rights more seriously in accordance with its minimal Helsinki Pact obligations. 
I ask the Minister for Construction: Is it correct that tenders have now been called for the $8m Antarctic Base to be constructed at Kingston, Tasmania? Will tenders close on 12 September? Will the said construction of the Antarctic Base employ directly and indirectly between 150 and 200 people between now and 1980? Will the Minister make an official visit to the site as soon as construction commences? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House records with profound sadness the tenth anniversary of the invasion of Czechoslavakia by Soviet-led Warsaw Pact forces in the spring of 1968; the tragic loss of life, the continuing violations of basic human rights, including the open persecution of the Charter 77 Movement, and calls for the immediate withdrawal from Czechoslovakia of over 70 000 Soviet troops. 
1980 OLYMPIC GAMES: VENUE 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That in the opinion of this House the Soviet Union has by its continuing violations of basic human rights revealed itself to be unfit to be the host nation of the 1980 Olympic Games. 
-At a time when this nation is being held to blackmail by Telecom it is indeed incredible to pick up the Hobart  Mercury  and see attributed to the Tasmanian Minister for Transport a report that in some obscure way the Commonwealth Government is holding Tasmania to ransom over the upgrading of the State's rail system. In a fit of temporary insanity  Mr Baldock  went on to say: 
The Federal Government is using the Tasmanian Government as a stone with which to belt the railways. 
It would seem that  Mr Baldock  is suffering from amnesia. He has forgotten that it was the Reece and Neilson Governments which sold out the Tasmanian railways to the Whitlam Government in 1975, in one of the most disgraceful agreements ever initiated between a State of the Commonwealth and the then Commonwealth Government. It was the Neilson and Reece Governments which killed the Hobart suburban rail service. They sold out the best railway service in the State and we have today what the Minister for Transport in this Parliament  (Mr Nixon)  has described as the worst railway system in Australia. 
The Federal Government, far from using blackmail tactics, has said to the State Government: 'We will provide the funds. We will provide untold millions of dollars to upgrade the Tasmanian railway system, provided you do one thing- legislate to ensure that the railways get a fair go under the State transport system in Tasmania'. That Government has not faced up to its responsibility to protect the livelihood of railway workers. 
We had in Canberra today the State secretary of the Australian Railways Union,  Mr Rex  Neil, who spoke to Liberal members. He knows that we understand the railways; that we have shown a commitment to the Tasmanian railway system. The Labor Party, of course, delights in kicking the railways. It is extraordinary that in our State the railwaymen, almost to a man, support the Liberal Party. They know that we are genuine in our concern for the railways, and they will not have a bar of the Labor Party which, over many years, has been killing the State railway system. 
I have the honour to inform the Parliament tonight that the Minister for Transport has now made the position as regards Tasmania quite clear. I will read to honourable members three paragraphs from a letter that he has written which clarifies the matter beyond any shadow of a doubt. I call on  Mr Baldock  and the State Labor Government in Tasmania to indicate whether they are fair dinkum about assisting the 
Tasmanian railway system. The Minister for Transport in his letter to me said- and I will leave out the niceties - 
The Tasmanian road regulatory system is of course the responsibility of the State Government. It would therefore be up to the State to decide what changes should be made to that system. All that the Commonwealth has sought in connection with the operation of the Tasmanian railways is to ensure that expenditure that would be involved in rail rehabilitation be justified in terms of the future tasks to be performed by the railways. 
The Joy Report on the Tasmanian railways stated that the long term future of the Tasmanian railways depends on the availability of bulk traffics at reasonable rates. The report also stated that the regulation of road movements of smalls and other non-bulk traffics could be eased, with benefit to the Tasmanian economy and to the ultimate efficiency of the Tasmanian railways. The Commonwealth Government accepted the Joy Report in principle. 
The Commonwealth has for some time been seeking arrangements from the State in respect of rail carriage of bulk traffics. I have only recently received some information on  Mr Baldock  's latest proposal in respect of this matter and this is presently under consideration. You may wish to emphasise to the Federation- 
That is the Federation of Tasmanian Chambers of Commerce- that the arrangements sought by the Commonwealth relate only to the imposition of road transport charges in respect of bulk items. 
I believe that attitude, as indicated by the Minister for Transport in his letter of 2 1 August, is reasonable and should be responded to by the State Labor Government. It is completely unfair to the railway men, and indeed the railway women, of Tasmania that their fate should be up in the air while a State Labor Government dilly dallies for month after month and will not indicate whether it is prepared to bring in legislation to protect the State railways system. The Commonwealth has millions of dollars to pour into Tasmania's railway system, to upgrade and rehabilitate it. All it asks is for a fair deal; for the State Government to give the railways the protection to which they are justly entitled. 
In this debate on railways it is, for a change, the Liberals who are standing up and supporting the railwaymen of Tasmania. Once again it is the Labor Party which has betrayed them, which has back-stabbed them, which has let them down at every turn along the way, standing by idly without any concern for the future of Tasmanian railways. I ask the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  to convey to the Prime Minster  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  my support for what he has done on this most important matter. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House notes with horror reports of the deaths by starvation of tens of thousands of East Timorese and calls for the immediate admission of International Red Cross into East Timor along with such United Nations relief missions as are deemed appropriate to immediately alleviate the hardship, suffering and loss of life in East Timor. 
It is normally a great privilege to follow the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  because he normally is a sound and reasoned  speaker.  He normally is a moderate  speaker  and he normally puts forward the views of the traditional right wing of his Party. It is very sad to see that in latter days he appears to have been wooed, to have been got at, by the trendy lefties of the other side of the House, such as the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  We have heard from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition a very disappointing speech that was filled with socialist mouthings. He really did not have his heart in it. Quite frankly, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is realist enough to know that he has a very difficult job to do to attack a Budget which basically will assist to get this country back on its feet economically. 
Before dealing with the Budget in detail may I presume to put forward three proposals for consideration with regard to future Budgets to be brought down in this Parliament. I ask the question rhetorically whether Australia is now mature enough, whether we have sufficient forward thinkers in government and the community, to bring down two-year Budgets. It is my belief that there is a lot to be said for the proposition that the Australian community should know for a period of two years in advance what is the planning of government. I would go a step further, as a corollary to that proposition, to say that there should be a condition precedent that a Budget commenced in an election year will be completed in order that there shall not be disruption to the forward planning which has already taken place. 
I know that some people will say that in effect we are budgeting for the next 1 8 months. I can understand the argument behind that. But I wonder whether we in Australia have reached such a point of maturity today. I believe we should face up to the challenge and plan not just to the tip of our nose 12 months hence but to budget two years in advance and give the community, particularly the business community which shapes the economy of this country and its dynamic forward drive, a clear idea of where government is going. It is basic that if this proposition were to be accepted there should be no retrospective amendment and no taking away of any entitlement or benefit which has been granted during that two-year Budget period. Honourable members would be aware of my views with reference to retrospective legislation. It goes without stating, but I do state it for completeness, that there should be no reimposition in that two-year budget period of tax remissions which have been granted. In other words, my view is that once the entitlement has been granted, once business has planned on the basis of that entitlement, there should not be a reimposition, albeit on a temporary basis or surcharge basis. 
The third proposition concerns whether we ought to give very serious consideration to the introduction of either zero base accounting, as is being applied in the United States of America, or a notional 10 per cent reduction in departmental estimates at the completion of each financial year, as is the custom in New Zealand. Regardless of whether we apply one or the other, the basis is that a department is called upon to justify every cent of the taxpayers' money which it intends to spend in the forthcoming 12 months. I do not really think that we have to go to the actual base and make the department build up from ground level but I understand that the position in New Zealand is that at the end of each financial year there is a notional 10 per cent reduction of the estimates of each department and the Ministers and departmental officers have to get around a table and justify the amount they are seeking for the forthcoming financial year. 
I am told that in previous years it was the practice for some to go along, having spent all the moneys which had been allocated to them in the previous year, and simply seek an increase coequal with the rate of inflation for the preceding 12 months. In other words, they would simply keep their heads above water. That is all right if the department is in fact justifying its expenditure. It is all right if the department is spending the taxpayers' money wisely. I commend these proposals to the Government and its advisers. I think they probably come more in the area of the 
Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and, knowing his forward thinking ideas, I put forward these three propositions for his consideration: The feasibility of two-year Budgets; a clear undertaking that there will not be the reimposition or taking away of benefits under a twoyear Budget and the possibility of zero base accounting or a notional 10 per cent reduction in the estimates of each department at the end of each financial year. 
I have finished my first five minutes and I now wish to turn to the impact of the Budget upon the States. I say quite categorically, as one who makes no apology for the fact that he stands in this Parliament as an unashamed States' righter, that the States of the Commonwealth of Australia have never had it as good as they are having it at the present moment under our new federalism. One of the things that I want to draw to the attention of the people of New South Wales, if I may, is that the generous and benevolent Wran Budget which was introduced into the New South Wales Parliament last week is being financed through the generosity of the Fraser Government in Canberra. When  Mr Wran  goes to the people of New South Wales in the next few weeks and says 'Look what a good boy I am', he should be reminded that he could not have brought down such a Budget if the Whitlam Government had still been in office, if we had still been operating under the old Whitlam centralist theories.  Mr Wran  has been able to bring down a generous Budget and make a generous fellow of himself because New South Wales, along with all the other States, has done better under this Government's federalism than ever before in the history of the Commonwealth. 
-That is quite so. I have just received today news of the Tasmanian Budget. Despite the huffing and puffing of  Mr Batt  and others who have been knocking Canberra and saying what terrible people we are, it turns out that the Budget deficit in Tasmania was $6. 4m, that is to say, $3.5m above the forecast $2.9m. The major reason advanced for that deficit is a shortfall in State taxation revenues where the yield did not reach its target by $5. 3m. In other words, it was caused by a shortfall in State revenue, not in any way, shape or form by a shortfall in Federal revenue. For the sake of the record, I want to read into  Hansard  the treatment of Tasmania by the Fraser Government since it came to power. In the last year of Labor, in the 1975-76 Budget- the Hayden horror Budget- Tasmania received a miserable $156,816,000. In the first year of the new Federalism the amount went to $186,294,000. In 1977-78, in the second Lynch Budget, it went to $214,150,000, and this year it has reached a record $240,200,000. Indeed, the total treatment of Tasmania comes out something like this: From Canberra this year Tasmania will be receiving $501,894,000, which on a per capita basis works out at something like $1,100 for every man, woman and child in Tasmania. That compares with about $650 in New South Wales and $700 in Victoria, yet still  Mr Batt  complains and whinges and makes political statements which are contrary to the interests of Tasmania. 
I want now to compare the Loan Fund figures. This year following the Loan Council the Labor Premiers said what a wicked place Canberra was. Tasmania got an increase of 12.2 percent in loan funds, and  Mr Batt  came out screaming.  Mr Wran  in New South Wales got an increase of 9.8 per cent and he said: 'There is no point in complaining. Let us get on with the job of" putting Australia back on its feet'. If we look at the total appropriation in respect of loan funds we find that Tasmania as a percentage of the six-State total received 7. 1 per cent. That is not bad for a State which has 3.5 per cent of Australia's population. Need I go on,  Mr Deputy  Speaker? The fact of the matter is that Tasmania has never had it so good, the States have never had it so good, as they have under new Federalism. I say that as one who has not been ashamed or reticent in the past to be critical either of my Prime Minister, the Ministers of the Government or government policy. 
As to the Budget's thrust, it is only to be expected that the Opposition once again will try to play politics with unemployment. I deplore that, and I say that sooner or later the Opposition will realise that there are no votes to be won by playing politics with unemployment, particularly youth unemployment. What the Opposition members ought to do is what we have done in Tasmania, and it has been done in other parts of Australia. They should get involved in the Community Youth Support scheme, get the Special Youth Employment Training Program going, get on radio and promote apprentice training. They should look at all the resources that are available and open the doors of their offices to help get kids into employment. I ring  Mr Lewis,  the manager of the Commonwealth Employment Service in Hobart, every day, and my colleagues the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  and the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr),  indeed all the Tasmanians, keep in touch with the CES. We take pride and pleasure in getting a message that somebody who was in one of our offices yesterday is in a job today. I am sick and tired of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and all honourable members opposite trying all the time to knock instead of being constructive. 
The overall thrust of the Budget is to get this country back on its feet. There are no short-term solutions. We must kill inflation; we have already cut it by more than half. We must reduce interest rates- they have already started to come down- and we must reduce income taxation. I believe that in those three measures we will see a real return to prosperity. I see a real opportunity for Australia in the 1980s, a confident and dynamic Australia, not the sort of whingeing, carping attitude we have heard from the other side. I again commend the Minister for Finance for saying at the weekend: 'What about a bit of confidence in Australia? What about a bit of get up and go?' Honourable members on the other side of the House are tired and lazy. We on this side of the House are the young men of the 1980s and 1990s and our Government will lead Australia into the 2 1st century. 
-The honourable member for Wills has still got the Depression in his mind. It would do him a lot of good to talk to the young people, the new generation that is moving and going ahead. I have said all the good things I have to say, and I do support the thrust of the Budget. Contrary to speculation, I will not be voting against the Budget. However, there are three aspects to which I wish to refer because they are matters of considerable concern. I believe that when a pledge is given it should be kept. I want to say quite seriously that, having worked for the benefit of pensioners in my constituency for over 12 years, both in the State Parliament and now in the Federal Parliament, I find it very hard to accept that for a miserable $ 15m we should decide to index pensions annually. I do not believe that that is automatic, I do not believe it is instant, and I appeal to the Government, even at this stage, to look at it again. I frankly do not think it is worth breaking a promise to nearly one million pensioners for the sake of $ 15m. I cannot support it. If we are going to look at that again I hope we might spare a thought for the over 70-year-olds. It seems to me quite wrong that we should freeze their increases on a means test basis. 
I have to say these things to get them off my chest. I cannot support them. I find it very difficult to accept them in the same way that I found it difficult to accept retrospective legislation earlier this year. I would find it hard to accept in the current Budget. I am deeply indebted to the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  for the manner in which he has approached the question of tubercular exservicemen and women, and I intend to follow his lead. I hope that the current entitlements will continue until each and every such person in Australia has been subjected to the findings of a full assessment tribunal as to his or her disability. I think that that would be the correct way to do it, not to take away the benefit and then make some poor devil wait for 12 months or so until he or she can be tested. These are important matters and I hope it is not thought petty in this debate that I raise them. I believe they are matters of concern. 
I am obliged to the honourable member for Franklin for giving me not only the permission but also the encouragement to speak honestly and frankly in this debate. I simply must say these things. I want to say also that I am looking with considerable care at the question of the treatment of those who are in receipt of pensions and other entitlements as a result of disabilities, whatever they might be. Last but not least, on the question of post-graduate research grants, I simply say that where a course that has already been commenced is affected it may be that there should be room for discretion. There are genuine cases of people who have started a course and are between one horse and the other. If we put them in a situation of dramatic change considerable hardship could and will occur. 
In all, the thrust of the Budget is to get this country back on to its feet. I believe it will achieve that objective. There are in this Budget, as undoubtedly there are in every Budget, small pinpricking points which hopefully will be the subject of review. But overall I support the Budget. On this side of the House there appears to be more determination to get this country back on its feet than on the other side of the House which is negative, nit-picking and, with the greatest of respect, not constructive. I ask members of the Opposition to join with us in getting Australia back on its feet rather than to take a negative and critical approach, as they invariably do. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-On 26 July 1977 on behalf of myself and other members of the House of Representatives I wrote to the Ambassador of Indonesia here in Canberra seeking visas to enable a parliamentary delegation to visit East Timor. The letter is a lengthy one of 4 pages, but on page 2 at paragraph 4 1 set out one of the reasons that the visit was proposed. I read it at this point of time: 
Claims that humanitarian aid has not reached those for whom it was intended and that there is widespread hunger, deprivation, malnutrition and a shortage of medical supplies in East Timor must surely be impartially investigated and either confirmed or positively refuted. 
There was a period then of protracted delay in obtaining an answer from the Indonesian Embassy as to whether visas would be granted. On 8 August, following a visit to Darwin on 6 August in which I had discussions with the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  I asked the Indonesian Embassy to give a decision one way or the other on the question of visas by 10 August. Having been in Darwin on 7 August both I and  Senator Kilgariff  had taken certain action involving discussions not only with East Timorese refugees but also with the Bishop of Darwin whom we had seen on that day. When there was no response from the Indonesian Government no fewer than 82 members of this Parliament from both sides of the House and in the Senate and representing all political parties signed a protest note, protesting against the refusal of the Government of the Republic of Indonesia to indicate whether visas would be issued to permit a delegation of members of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia to visit East Timor on a fact-finding mission. 
Following that, a deputation comprising six members of the Federal Parliament- myself, the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon), Senator Missen, Senator Bonner  and  Senator Kilgariff-  called on the Indonesian Embassy and spoke with the Ambassador on 25 August. The upshot of it was that visas were refused. In a letter dated 29 August 1977, the Indonesian Embassy advised as follows: 
After the integration of East Timor according to the wishes of the people in that particular area, we consider any fact finding mission in East Timor as an intervention in our internal affairs. 
God alone knows how many lives might have been saved if that Australian parliamentary delegation had gained access to East Timor 12 months ago. I cannot remain silent in this place within literally days of hearing reports of the deaths of up to 30,000 or 40,000 East Timorese as a direct result of starvation clearly caused by the use of defoliants and napalm earlier this year in East Timor in destroying the crops upon which a substantial proportion of the East Timorese population was to survive. 
I simply say that either the Indonesian Government lied to Australia and lied to the world when it claimed that there had been a happy and successful integration in 1 976 or the Indonesian Government is guilty of the greatest cover-up of atrocities that have been committed on this earth since World War II with the discovery of the Nazi concentration camps. The Indonesian Government must accept responsibility one way or the other for what has occurred. 
Now, a point has been reached at which we should immediately insist that the International Red Cross be immediately admitted into East Timor. That organisation has been locked out for three years. According to evidence given before the United States congressional committee, over 100,000 deaths have occurred. According to the figures of International Red Cross, over 80,000 deaths have occurred in East Timor. This matter is not going to go away. In concluding my brief remarks tonight, with the consent of the Opposition I seek tohave incorporated in  Hansard  a copy of a letter dated 26 July 1977, the Darwin Declaration of 7 August 1977, the protest note of 18 August 1977 signed by 82 members and senators and, finally, the eventual reply from the Indonesian Embassy dated 29 August 1 977. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

PARLIAMENT OF AUSTRALIA 
House of Representatives 
Commonwealth Parliament Offices 5th Floor, Marine Board Building 1 Franklin Wharf 
Hobart,Tas. 7000 (G.P.O. Box 32a, Hobart, Tas. 700 1 ) 
Tel. National (002) 34 5255 
International 6 1 02 34 5255 26 July, 1977 
Office of Michael Hodgman, M.P. 
Federal Member for Denison 

 His Excellency, Mr Nurmathias, 

Embassy of the Republic of Indonesia, 8 Darwin Ave., 
Canberra, A.C.T. 2600 
Your Excellency, 
As mentioned to your Migration Officer,  Mrs SJAFTARI  yesterday, I am writing to enquire about the possibility of visas being granted to enable a three-man deputation of House of Representatives backbenchers to visit East Timor on a fact-finding mission. 
The proposed deputation would not in any way be an official delegation representing either the Australian Government or the Australian Parliament. It would simply consist of a group of backbenchers who are anxious to ascertain the true facts. In view of the withdrawal of  Mr D.  M. Connolly, M.P. (Bradfield), I will probably lead the delegation which would consist of one Government backbencher and a backbench member fo the Opposition. The Minister for Foreign Affairs (The  Hon.  Andrew Peacock) has advised me that the view of the Government is that it  neither supports nor opposes the proposed visit '. 
As I have never previously applied for a visa to visit Indonesia, let alone East Timor, I feel I should frankly tell you the reasons for the request, which I now make, and the conditions under which I would hope my request would be  acceptable to the  President  and Government of the Republic of Indonesia: (1)I, and other backbenchers in the Australian Parliament, are sincerely and genuinely concerned to ascertain the true facts of what happened in East Timor in 197S. You will no doubt be aware of press reports alleging the slaughtering of innocent civilians and of atrocities having been allegedly committed, whether by Government troops, Fretilin supporters, or other groups. In conscience, we believe that the true facts of what occurred should be ascertained and publicly revealed. I do not seek to prejudge the issues one way or the other, and I feel you should know that I have informed  Mr C.  Santos that if our delegation does get to East Timor, we would most certainly investigate allegations of atrocities said to have been committed by Fretilin supporters.  Mr Santos  advised me recently that Fretilin would have no objection whatsoever to allegations against it being investigated by a Parliamentary Select Committee, an international inquiry, an official or unofficial Parliamentary delegation, or indeed, the news media of the world. I feel sure that the Government of the Republic of Indonesia would welcome an opportunity to refute allegations of improprieties allegedly committed in East Timor by military authorities and others officially acting on its behalf. (2)I, and many other backbenchers of the Federal Parliament, are gravely concerned that the true facts surrounding the deaths of the five Australian newsmen at Balibo have not been, to date, precisely and accurately ascertained. I am sure you will appreciate our feelings of concern that five innocent Australians could meettheirdeaths in circumstances which have not only never been satisfactorily explained, but also where the culprits have apparently escaped scot free and have never been brought to justice. 
The disappearance of  Mr Roger  East remains unresolved. 
Claims that humanitarian aid has not reached those for whom it was intended and that there is widespread hunger, deprivation, malnutrition and a shortage of medical supplies in East Timor, must surely be impartially investigated and either confirmed or positively refuted. 
Allegations that people of East Timor have never been given a proper opportunity for a free act of selfdetermination obviously raise matters of considerable international importance in view of the expressed opinion of the United Nations and the pending debate on East Timor in the forthcoming sessions of the United Nations, commencing in September this year. 
I repeat, I do not pre-judge any of these issues- I merely say that as a concerned Australian, I believe I have now a moral duty to do everything in my power to ascertain the true facts and to publicly reveal them. To simply ignore these matters and to pretend that they did not exist would constitute and act of moral cowardice in the extreme. 
I am well aware of the recent visit to Indonesia and East Timor by members of the United States Congress. I have also been informed that approval has been given for newsmen Gerald Stone and Richard Carleton to visit East Timor. I do not believe that the Government of the Republic of Indonesia would be unsympathetic to my request that members of the Australian Parliament also be permitted to enter East Timor. I am, of course, aware of the recent visit to East Timor by two members of the staff of the Australian Embassy in Djakarta, and I have had an opportunity of reading portions of their report following their visit to East Timor. You will be aware that portion of the report appeared in 'Backgrounder' for the week ending June 24, and that they visited Dili, Viqueque, Los Palos, Fatumaca, Caucau, 
Same, Maliana, Balibo, Bobonaro and Liquica. I assume because of the unavailability of commercial air transport in that area that the Government of the Republic of Indonesia provided the necessary facilities for the officials ' visit. 
As I mentioned earlier in this submission, the Australian Government 'neither supports nor opposes the proposed visit.' The delegation would, therefore, have to (a) obtain the necessary visas from the Government of the Republic of Indonesia, and (b) raise the finance to enable us to travel from Australia to Indonesia. I believe we will be able to raise the necessary finance to travel from Australia to Djakarta. This then leaves the question of granting of visas as the paramount matter to be resolved. As I informed MrsSjaftari yesterday, it would be hoped that our proposed visit could eventuate as quickly as possible, and certainly before the end of August, 1977 (the Federal Parliament is due to resume for the Budget session on August 16). It will be appreciated, therefore, that the matter is one of considerable urgency. 
Two further questions would obviously require urgent attention: 
1 ) Provided we could get to Djakarta, what facilities would be available to our proposed delegation to actually proceed to East Timor? I am informed that commercial air services into the area proposed to be visited are difficult, if not impossible to obtain. Is this so? If it is, what assistance could be anticipated from the Government of the Republic of Indonesia to enable us to carry out our factfinding mission to East Timor? 
The final and undoubtedly extremely important question is 'In view of Indonesia's annexation of East Timor and public statements by the Government of the Republic of Indonesia that East Timor is now pan of Indonesia, would we be entitled to assume that the Government of the Republic of Indonesia is in a position to accept responsibility for the safety of members of our proposed delegation if our visit to East Timor eventuates? ' Quite clearly, if East Timor is now actually part of Indonesia and accordingly subject to the authority of the Government of the Republic of Indonesia, the guaranteeing of the safety of members of the proposed delegation, whilst in East Timor, would not present any great problems. 
Whilst appreciating, as MrsSjaftari pointed out, that the decision on this submission will have to be made in Djakarta, I would be extremely grateful if the matter could be looked at expeditiously because of the time factor. In view of  Mrs Sjaftari's  suggestion that I should also communicate with the Australian Embassy in Djakarta, I am forwarding the Embassy a copy of this letter and out of courtsy,Iam also forwarding a copy of this letter to the Minister for Foreign Affairs (The  Hon.  Andrew Peacock). 
Yours faithfully, 
I thank the Opposition for its co-operation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! Does the documentation include the signatures of honourable members and honourable senators? 
It does,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
-In the two minutes available to me in this debate I wish to draw to the attention of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is sitting at the table, to an article which appeared in yesterday's  Australian  under the tide ' Pinkney 's Australia' and headed 'Schools hit by deluge of sex'. The article was written by a very senior journalist, John Pinkney. Whilst time does not permit me to read all of the article, might I say that it refers to the activities of the new Centre for Equal Opportunity in Melbourne's Moonee Ponds. This centre is funded, it is said, by Schools Commission money. It has been described by Professor Lauchlan Chipman as a 'nonsense project' and a 'misappropriation of public money'. The article states that the centre distributes a number of pamphlets and newsletters to teachers and students in schools in Victoria. I will just read very briefly some of the fare that is on offer. The article states: 
One newsletter suggests some lively topics for classroom debate. High on the list is Rubyfruit Jungle- 'a book on growing up lesbian '. 
Another recommended booklet discusses 'the situation of homosexual students and teachers (and) infringements on their civil liberties.' 
The erotica-obsessed publication also advertises a homosexual bibliography, distributed by the Gay Teachers' Group- and a vital essay titled, The Socialised Penis. 
It is important that teachers read this article,' advise the reviewers. 
The article goes on in some detail. I simply want to say- I say it in all seriousness- that if this article is true and if this sort of activity is going on and is being funded by Commonwealth money I believe that this Government has a duty to step in and take appropriate action. If it is not true, then I think  Mr Pinkney  has a lot to answer for. Having drawn this to the attention of the Minister and having faith in him, I leave it at that. I simply say that this article has been published in an Australian national newspaper. If it is true, it is nothing short of a scandal. If it is not true, then I think  Mr Pinkney  ought to do a little explaining. 
In asking this question of the Minister for Industry and Commerce I take my cue from  Mr Daly.  Was the Minister correctly reported in today's Press as having stated that he did not like 'cakes with scantily clad girls in the middle'? If the answer is yes, what has happened to the Minister? Has age overtaken him or have the petty and time-wasting tactics of the Opposition in this House driven the Minister, along with the rest of us, up the wall in recent weeks? 
-My remarks will be brief. By that, I do not mean that they will be as brief as they were before. However, they will be brief because of the shortness of time. The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  who has just resumed his seat clearly is under a misapprehension. He apparently does not realise that I am in this Parliament and not still in the Tasmanian Parliament representing the seat of Huon principally because of the broken promises to the Tasmanian fruit industry by the Whitlam Government from 1 972 to 1 975. It was during that period that I was an independent member of the Tasmanian State Parliament - 
I thank the honourable member. I actually chaired meetings in the Huon which were addressed by people like  Mr Grassby, Dr Patterson  and  Mr Whitlam  himself. In fact,  Dr Patterson  came down to speak to the fruit growers of the Huon. It was so cold in the Huonville Town Hall that I actually lent him my overcoat. I still chaired the meeting, I believe, independently and fairly. They promised the world to the fruit growers in the Huon prior to 1972 - 
-Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  I will come directly to the point. I am here tonight because of broken promises to the Tasmanian fruit industry. I simply make that point. The honourable member for Parramatta can talk about granny smith apples as much as he likes. The fact of the matter is that a person cannot have an involvement in the fruit industry for a number of years without appreciating some of the points involved. 
I want to make only two brief comments in reply to remarks made, not so much by the honourable member for Parramatta because prima facie he is not an unreasonable person, but by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  who parades himself in this Parliament as being a supporter of the Tasmanian fruit industry and a friend of the Tasmanian fruit grower. Of course, it was the honourable member for Blaxland, as the fruit growers of Tasmania well know, who said back in 1975 that it might be a kindness to terminate the whole stabilisation scheme which we are debating at the moment and put the growers out of their misery. This is the man who comes into the chamber now and who has the gall, the cynicism and the hypocrisy - 
-Thank you,  Mr Chairman,  The honourable member can claim to have been misrepresented. I simply repeat the statement that the honourable member and many others in his Party, the Australian Labor Party, have actually been contending that it would be a kindness to terminate the stabilisation scheme and put the growers out of their misery. In that situation, it is an act of hypocrisy to talk about an increase to $3 in the level of stabilisation assistance. 
I do not believe that this proposition needs to be debated at any great length. However, I wish to point out lastly that we never see members of the Opposition in the fruit growing areas in Tasmania. I cannot remember when we last saw a Federal parliamentary member of the Australian Labor Party in the Huon Valley. I did a check because it is important to this question of stabilisation to see whether the Opposition has been interested in the sub ect - 
-They are related to the question of stabilisation. 

 -Mr Chairman, I accept your ruling and draw to the attention of the Committee that on checking  Hansard,  both questions without notice and questions placed on notice with respect to stabilisation, which is what the Bill is about, or indeed, with respect to the apple industry in Tasmania, one finds that not a single question has been asked - 
I am. 
I am addressing my remarks to the Bill. 

 -Mr Chairman, I am addressing my remarks to the entire Bill in relation to the continuation of the stabilisation scheme which has been in operation under governments of both political colours and which is being continued in the legislation that we are debating tonight. I wish to indicate that the proposition to increase the rate of stabilisation which has already been debated and voted on has never been raised either in the House of Representatives or in the Senate by any member of the Labor Party in 1976, 1977 or 1978 by way of a question. I simply raise that matter. If honourable members of the Opposition were genuinely concerned about the fruit industry in Tasmania- I conclude on this note- why is it that no member of the Labor Party, not the honourable member for Blaxland or any other honourable member opposite, has asked a single question in this Parliament since 1975 about the fruit industry in Tasmania? This displays how hypocritical honourable members opposite have been in relation to this matter and how completely out of order they are to attack the honourable member for Franklin for his sincerity and tenacity with which he has fought for the Tasmanian fruit growers. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, my remarks will be very brief. I simply want to say - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! I call the honourable member for Denison. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
It is indeed an honour to follow the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  not because he took the main point that I wanted to make, namely the cost of the Parliament to the nation, but because, if I might say so, I believe he made a very reasoned and reasonable speech. For the benefit of people listening to the broadcast, we are entitled to speak for 10 minutes to this itemthe estimates for the Parliament. As the honourable member for Banks has pointed out, the cost of the Commonwealth Parliament last financial year was $14,218,786 or, in round figures, one dollar for every man, woman and child in Australia. As such, I believe it can be said that in financial terms that is cheap democracy. 
It is very significant that when one looks at the Division of the Parliament in Appropriation Bill (No. 1), there are but seven heads of expenditure. I refer briefly to them: The Senate, the House of Representatives, the Parliamentary Reporting Staff, the Parliamentary Library, the Joint House Department, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. For those who are inclined to knock the Parliament indiscriminately, I draw attention to the fact that the administrative expenses of the Senate this year, as are about to be appropriated, are less than last year's expenditure. I draw attention to the fact that the appropriation for the Joint House Department is again less than last year's expenditure and, lastly, though only marginally, the expenditure for the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works to be appropriated by this Bill is again less than last year's expenditure. 
I am advised by my colleague, the honourable member for Dundas, that because of the election there was less expense than would have normally been the situation. I simply think it is appropriate to draw to the attention of the Australian public that on the face of it there has been good housekeeping. 
I believe we are privileged to work in a beautiful building, a building which regrettably is only too inadequate, but a building which I hope will be maintained in some form as a national monument. It is a superb building and despite its shortcomings it is a great honour for one to work within it. I want to talk, however, more about the institution of the Parliament and, in the brief time available to me, to urge that we should take a bold front and take steps to ensure that the parliamentary institution prepares now to step into the 21st century. In talking of the parliamentary system, it is indeed appropriate to refer to the pinnacle of the system. In this Chamber it is of course the  Speaker  and in the Senate it is of course the  President.  It is somewhat invidious to comment upon the standing of Presiding Officers, but I feel less inhibited on this occasion in view of the fact that in Canberra recently there was a conference of Presiding Officers and Clerks at which very high tributes were paid to the  Speaker  of this place and to the  President  of another place. If I might presume to say so, both office bearers carry out their duties, in my respectful view, in a judicial manner with complete impartiality and impeccable fairness. 
It is because these officers belong specifically to the Parliament that I raise as a matter of principle, and I hope in so doing I do not embarrass the officers, a recent announcement made with respect to the Ministers and the office holders of the Parliament forgoing increases recommended in their favour by the parliamentary Remuneration Tribunal. Whilst I commend the right of Ministers to indicate their willingness to forgo an increase, I do ask whether or not there was any consideration of the position of the office holders of the Parliament as opposed to Ministers of the Executive. It has been contended, and in one case it was contended to me by a member of the Opposition, that there was not communication with or consideration given to those office holders. Whichever party were in power, I would still say that it would be incorrect of a government to presume that there would be a willingness to remit a parliamentary increase by any office holder of the Parliament, whether he is the 
Speaker, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, a Whip or whatever. I raise this matter as one of considerable principle because I think it is a matter of importance that if the Parliament stands by and permits the Executive, whatever Executive is in power, to interfere with the rights of the office holders of the Parliament, then we are in effect letting those office holders down, and as they go down the system goes down. I commend the Ministers for what they have done but I suggest that the Executive has no right to presume. I hope that there was not a presumption in this case. It is not for me to approach Presiding Officers and to ask whether they were consulted. I simply hope that there was not a presumption in this case. 
With the utmost respect to my colleague, the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher),  I do not believe that one should be apologetic about what he referred to as rebels and floor-crossers. There may not be many rebels and floor-crossers or occasions for rebellion or floor-crossing in this place as opposed to the House of review, the Senate, but I do not believe that it is in the national interest that the strict party line should prevail at all times without any variation. In the history of Australian politics both parties have been shown to be wrong at the same time on the one subject. I just merely put the point in relation to the smaller States and the nexus referendum of 1 967 where both major parties fell flat on their faces in the face of a small but determined bit of opposition from a small group of senators.  Sir Winston  Churchill was attributed with having made the comment that the first duty of a member of parliament was to the nation, his second was to his electorate and his third was to his party. He went on to say that there were, on rare occasions, times when one's duty perhaps to one's party might transcend one's duty to one's electorate, but never, he said, could duty to electorate or party transcend one's duty to nation. The Prime Minister of this country for the time being, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  is on public record on the occasion of his resignation from a ministry as saying that his duty to the nation was pre-eminent. So, with respect, I suggest that one should not be timorous about a situation where one has to face up to one's responsibilities even if that puts one out of step with one's own party colleagues. Again, with the greatest respect to my colleagues on the other side of the chamber, in fact I did- and I do not make any great thing of this- cross the floor of this House on three occasions. I have yet to see a member of  Her  Majesty's Opposition come over and vote on our side of the House except on the Family Law Bill when four members of  Her  Majesty's Opposition came over and voted with the majority of Government members in relation to a matter of conscience. For that I congratulate them. 
The Australian Parliament belongs to the Australian people. It is deplorable that thousands of Australian school children are still not taught- in my opinion- even the basics of how the federal system in Australia operates. It is a great shame that very few children in Australia are given the opportunity to come to Canberra to witness the parliamentary proceedings. Children in New South Wales, the Australian Capital Territory and Victoria are able to get here by buses at a comparatively low cost but children from Western Australia, Queensland, South Australia, the Northern Territory and Tasmania find the cost prohibitive. Last year and the year before I put a submission to the Government that there should be some system to subsidise the cost of travel to enable parties of school children to come to Canberra to see the Parliament in action. Whilst my representations have not been successful to date, I hope they will be in the fullness of time. Because of the difficulty of people getting to Canberra I certainly support the suggestion that some of the parliamentary proceedings should be televised. It is no excuse to say: 'Do not televise them because we will be shown up as being inadequate'. I believe that people have the right to see us exactly as we are. 
I am disappointed that the Senate appears to be dithering around, delaying and holding up the work of the Privileges Committee which is looking into the privileges of the Parliament. A recommendation was made by the Privileges Committee of this place following the  Sunday Observer  case. It has been hanging around for some time and I hope that it can be brought on quickly. Let us look at the question of pressbutton voting. It is a scandal that we have to sit here for divisions lasting 11, 12, 13, or 14 minutes. I believe that we should take a leaf out of the books of State parliaments so that members will have the right to record their dissent without necessarily calling for a division which is time wasting. Members should have the right to protest against the passage of legislation and they should have increased rights to incorporate additional material in  Hansard  to save everybody's time. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I commence my remarks by paying a compliment to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  for the manner in which he has conducted his duties. I believe that all Australians, irrespective of their politics, recognise that in this Minister we have a Minister whose standing and ability has been recognised throughout the world. I am very pleased, in the very short time available to me this evening, to pay that tribute to our Minister because I believe he is a Minister of whom all Australians can be proud. 
On 29 May this year I directed a number of questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs with reference to the trial of  Dr Yuri  Orlov. I asked the Minister whether he had received a report of the trial in Moscow last week of  Dr Yuri  Orlov. I asked him whether he was able to say whether  Dr Orlov  was denied his basic right to defend himself and was harassed and publicly accused in court and whether the Western Press was excluded from these proceedings. I further asked the Minister whether the Government would exert the utmost pressure to secure the immediate release of  Dr Orlov  from prison. If he had received a report on the trial, I asked him whether it indicated that the trial accorded with the Soviet Union's claim to be taking human rights more seriously in accordance with its minimal Helsinki Pact obligations. 
In the absence of the Minister overseas, the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair),  replied to my question. He indicated that a report of the trial of  Dr Orlov  had been received. He went on to say: 

 Dr Orlov refused to enter a plea to charges made against him after the judge prevented him from making a statement about his activities. According to  Mrs Orlov,  who attended the trial, together with her two stepsons, special 'public representatives' applauded and cheered as the judge passed sentence. The Western press was barred from the proceedings. 
The Acting Minister went on to say: 
As the Minister - 
That is,  Mr Peacock-   . . clearly affirmed in his press statement on 19 May, the Government is deeply concerned at the trial and harsh sentence imposed on  Dr Orlov.  Consistent with the Government 's commitment to promote respect for human rights as set out in international instruments such as the Final Act of the Helsinki Agreement and the UN Convenants on Human Rights, the Minister has in the past expressed the Government's concern to the Soviet authorities about questions of human rights and will continue to do so. 

 Mr Sinclair continued: 
I believe that the Minister's statement as well as the publicly expressed concern of the Australian people at the treatment of  Dr Orlov  will demonstrate to the Soviet authorities the strength of our commitment to basic human rights. 
The treatment of  Dr Yuri  Orlov, the treatment of Scharanski, the treatment of Ginsberg and the treatment of Petkus must make it clear not only to this House but also to the people of Australia that Russia is not entitled nor is Moscow an honourable place in which to hold the 1980 Olympic Games. I believe that if there are any people in this community who are prepared to stand up and be counted on the issue of human rights, they should now be prepared to stand up and be counted on the basic and fundamental question whether or not Moscow is entitled to hold the 1980 Olympic Games. 
I take considerable support from honourable members such as the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  and others in this Parliament who for a long time have been concerned about the question of human rights in the Soviet Union. I believe that if the 1980 Olympic Games are held in Soviet Russia the world will be repeating the mistake it made in 1936 when it permitted Nazi Germany to hold the Olympic Games in Berlin. I am absolutely convinced that those who say it is something on which we cannot make a stand, that those who say that we should not bring politics into sport, and that those who can come up with 10 1 reasons why we should not put ourselves out, should think again because no less a person- I should say no less a hero- than  Dr A.  K. Sakharov, in his book  My Country and the World,  made a statement which I believe should be the clarion call to those in the free countries of the West who believe in individual human rights. He said that 'the West must not under any circumstances allow the weakening of its stand against totalitarianism'. 
Must we first think of such eminent people as those who have been prepared to take a stand against totalitarianism behind the iron curtain, of the celebrated author of the  Gulag Archipelago,  of Petkus as he was taken away saying: 'the West shall not forget me', before we are prepared to stand up and be counted on this vital question? It is a matter which clearly crosses party lines. I have in my possession correspondence from the United Kingdom where an all-party parliamentary committee has been set up with the simple prime objective of taking the Olympic Games away from Moscow in 1980. That organisation has come to the conclusion that the only way that Russia is likely to respond to the pressure of world opinion is by something effective being done and that, in fact, means the removal of the 1 980 Olympic Games from Moscow. 
Unfortunately, people behind the Iron Curtain will not have the opportunity to hear or read my speech or to read the speeches of members of Parliament in the United Kingdom or the United States Senate, but the campaign to remove the 1980 Olympic Games from Moscow is well and truly under way. There have been representations on this subject from the House of Commons, from the House of Lords, from the United States Congress and from the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia.  Senator Alan  Missen has been elected by an international organisation as our Australian representative on that campaign committee. These are not matters for which we have a little support, and I draw the attention of the Parliament to the fact that over 35 members of the United States Senate have recently expressed the view that Moscow has disqualified itself from the 1980 Olympics. I draw attention to the fact that this week the parliamentary committee inquiring into the question of human rights behind the Iron Curtain will be taking evidence from a man who until six months ago was a prisoner behind the Iron Curtain. I draw attention also to the fact that Amnesty International has become involved in this matter and that in the United Kingdom the  President  of the Society against the Persecution of Soviet Jewry has said that we are seeing now exactly what happened in 1936. The cause, therefore, needs little arguing; its merit is self-evident. 
Debate interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! It being 10.30 p.m., I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
I have never failed to be surprised at the audacity of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  The honourable member is one of the few remaining members of an administration which during a period of two financial years increased the income tax burden on the people of Australia by some 40 per cent- a 20. 1 per cent increase in one financial year and a 19.9 per cent increase in the following financial year. Yet the honourable member for Hughes parades himself in this Parliament tonight and speaks to the people of Australia as one in support of lower income taxation when he was a member of a government which increased taxation more savagely than any government in the history of this country since Federation. The honourable member for Hughes stands condemned as a member of a government which took the stockwhip to the income earners of Australia and said in essence: 'The harder you work the harder we will tax you'. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  when Treasurer in the final year of the Whitlam Government, achieved for himself the unequalled reputation of being a latter day St Paul before his conversion because if ever a person taxed the people of Australia it was the honourable member for Oxley, who is now the Leader of the Opposition. 
I have some interest in taxation because I have campaigned consistently for lower taxation during my time in the Tasmanian State Parliament and in this Parliament. I am very proud to stand in this Parliament as one who has urged a reduction in income tax because I believe that through lower taxes and through lower interest rates this country will get back on its feet. I believe that this Government, even though it comes under criticism from some honourable members opposite, including my friend the honourable member for Hughes, has something to be proud of because it has in fact reduced taxation every year since the 1975 election. If honourable members opposite do not believe me they will find in previous Budget Speeches that the income tax burden in Australia was reduced in three consecutive Budgets in the 1976, 1977 and 1978. I think that three years of reduced income taxation is something of which any government could be proud. 
My only disappointment is that in this financial year, because of economic circumstances of which all honourable members would be aware, the amount of reduction in income taxation has not been as substantial as one perhaps otherwise would have hoped. This year, despite the fact that a temporary surcharge of  Vh  per cent has had to be imposed, Australians will be paying less income tax in 1978 than they paid in 1977. Therefore the record of the Government is somewhat credible. We have been able to reduce the tax burden on the people of Australia. The influence of inflation being taken into account, the fact of the matter is that the tax burden of this country is lower than the tax burden was in the previous financial year. 
The honourable member for Prospect says it is not true. I say with the greatest of respect for him that, inflation being taken into account, the tax burden this financial year is lower than it was last financial year. That is a record which in my opinion stands far more open to scrutiny and far more open to public comment than the record of his Government, which increased income tax in this country by 40 per cent in two years. The people of Australia who complain about this Government and this Budget ought to remember that it was under the Whitlam regime, in particular and under the regime of the present Leader of the Opposition as Treasurer, that income tax was increased by 40 per cent. I will repeat the figures: There was a 
1 per cent increase in one financial year and a 19.9 per cent increase the next financial year. If we add these two increases together we get a total increase of 40 per cent. This is the highest tax rake-off ever in the history of Australia. 
Rather than be distracted by the beguiling arguments of my friend the honourable member for Hughes I turn to this cognate debate, which involves consideration of no fewer than five separate income tax Bills and something like 15 individual reforms. The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  spoke in this debate and I did listen to what he had to say. I listened also to what was said by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume),  lt has been said- and I believe this to be a truism- that there is nothing certain in life apart from death and taxes. We do not like either of them, and rightly so. The Government has been forced by the economic position to restrict the tax reform which was commenced last year. The Government has had to impose a temporary surcharge. Certain other reforms which we would have liked to push have not been feasible in all the circumstances. 
Last year a group of Government back benchers formed themselves into a loosely knit but nevertheless, I would believe, a somewhat effective politically cohesive force. We called ourselves the Fifty Cent League. We had two objectives. One was to bring about a reduction in the maximum marginal tax rate in Australia from 65c in the dollar, which it then was, to 50c in the dollar. The other objective was to bring in standard rate taxation. I pay tribute to the former Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  because it is now history that in the 1977 Budget we introduced standard rate taxation and we reduced the maximum marginal tax rate from 65c in the dollar to 60c in the dollar. No doubt, the intention was that in the next financial year the taxation rate would be reduced from 60c in the dollar to 55c in the dollar and in the third financial year it would move from 55c in the dollar to 50c in the dollar- hence the name of the group of the 50c league. Therefore, it was as much a disappointment to our group as, indeed, it was to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  when he made the comment that it was a matter of personal regret to him that a temporary surcharge of 1 '/i per cent was to be imposed for the financial year 1978-79. 
One of the Bills with which we are dealing tonight- the Income Tax (Rates) Amendment Bill 1978- provides in clause 10 for the implementation of the proposal, as a temporary measure for 1978-79 only, that the standard rate of income tax applicable to the taxable income of individuals that exceeds $3,893 is to be increased from 32 per cent or 32c in the dollar to 33.5 per cent or 33.5c in the dollar. Surcharges of 14 per cent and 28 per cent applying from taxable income levels of $16,608 and $33,216 respectively will bring the effective marginal tax rates above those levels to 47.5 per cent and 61.5 per cent. The Treasurer said that this was to be a temporary measure. I can assure all those listening to this debate that it is the wish of the Government and certainly the wish of the back bench members of the Government that it be a temporary measure and that the surcharge which has been imposed for this financial year will expire on 30 June next year and will not be continued. 
The honourable member for Chifley can yaffle and waffle as much as he likes, but the fact of the matter is that the Government has made a commitment, and I believe that commitment will not be broken, that this is a temporary surcharge against the general thrust of the tax reductions that we have implemented since our election to government in 1975. It is a temporary aberration which hopefully will expire and which I believe will expire on 30 June next. 
I wish to direct my attention now to another matter. Perhaps on this occasion the honourable member for Chifley will not be as critical of my remarks. I refer to the question of the taxation changes with respect to those who are in receipt of Commonwealth postgraduate awards. It is always a difficult line to draw on a Budget matter as to how much one presses an objection to a particular item or matter of concern. The situation with respect to clauses 3 and 14 of the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 [No. 2] is that, with effect from 1 November 1978, exemption from tax of benefits paid under the Commonwealth post-graduate award scheme is to be removed. In this debate I wish to make a plea for the consideration of those who have already commenced their post-graduate courses. Some of them are married; others are living together and may well have commitments with respect to children. Others again have entered into a post-graduate course on the basis of what at that time appeared to them to be a reasonably forseeable financial situation. 
I do not know whether it is asking too much to make the request that the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation ought to be invested with a special discretion in this situation. There are young people attending universities in Australia today under post-graduate awards who may very well have to reconsider their entire future as a result of the potential effect of this amendment. My belief is that it was not the intention of the Government to change the situation, as it were with respect to students who are midway through their courses. I believe that there is an arguable case in respect of persons who are half-way through their post-graduate award courses and who have commenced them on a certain taxation basis for the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation to have at least a discretion to alleviate hardship in respect of the cases which will apply as at 1 November. I know that the Government is looking at that matter. I hope it is one which will be pursued. It is my view that when people have commenced post-graduate courses on one basis, it would not be the wish of the Government that they should suffer hardship because of a complete changeabout with respect to the taxation system. 
The next matter to which I wish to refer is the question of annual leave. I listened with very great care to the most thoughtful and, if I might say so, persuasive speech of the honourable member for Macarthur. In his position as secretary of the taxation sub-committee section of the Treasury committee which operates under the Government's back bench committee system, he has devoted a great deal of time and consideration to what has been a very involved and complicated matter. My concern again is with respect to those who through no fault of their own have been prevented from taking annual leave. One can cite without very much difficulty cases in which employees either were asked specifically not to take annual leave or, as is the case in certain State Government departments in Tasmania of which I am aware, where the man concerned was not permitted to take his annual leave. 
My colleague the honourable member for Diamond Valley reminds me of the matter raised by a colleague from Victoria, the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman),  involving an employee of the Victorian Government Railways Department. I think that he accrued something like four years or five years of annual leave which he was not able to take. I am aware of one case concerning an employee of the Hydro-Electric Commission of Tasmania in which the amount involved is $8,000. The employee has not taken annual leave now for a period which exceeds six or seven years. It makes an enormous difference to that man as he approaches retirement whether he is to be taxed on that lump sum payment at the rate of 5 per cent or as if it were normal income. I would not disagree basically with what the honourable member for Macarthur and some honourable members opposite have said. If superannuation payments and long service leave payments were to be taxed as if they were income, which is not the proposal in the Budget, I would not be arguing about the question of annual leave. But I am concerned about the position because it seems to me on the face of it to involve two very important principles. The first one- I compliment the Treasurer because he has not diputed this fact- is that the legislation is to all intents and purposes retrospective'. Whether one takes a legal view or a practical view, whether one talks about rights which have been accrued or about reasonable expectations, the fact of the matter is that I believe the legislation involves the application of retrospectivity and to that extent I find it offensive. 
I hope that it is not too late to give to the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation a discretion in the case of persons who have not been able to take their annual leave or in the case of persons whose service with the employer is terminated before they can take their annual leave, otherwise I believe that considerable hardship will be caused to a considerable number of innocent people in this country. The amount involved is estimated to be of the order of $70m. It is not an insubstantial amount. But I do not believe that the Parliament should blithely amend or change a situation and deprive people of the rights which they believed they had accrued. I find myself on a point of conscience in virtually an impossible position with respect to supporting this proposed amendment. 
I want to draw attention to three remaining points in the time available to me. I will be brief because my colleague the honourable member for Diamond Valley, who has been particularly concerned with the incidence of income tax, wishes to make some remarks on the legislation before the House. I applaud the Government's decision to make donations to the World Wildlife Fund Australia tax deductible. It is a fund which I believe deserves support and one which I urge should be supported. Perhaps some honourable members will say: 'What does it really matter?' The fact of the matter is that World Wildlife Fund Australia, by virtue of clause 6 of the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill, is to be acknowledged as a fund to which gifts will be tax deductible. I hope that those who are genuinely concerned about the preservation of the environment and world wildlife generally will be prepared to support the Fund. 
I wish to comment also upon the termination of the housing loan interest deduction. Accepting the wisdom of the Government's decision, I hope nevertheless that in the period from now until the end of the current financial year- that is, to 30 June 1979- we will look at the effect of this amendment. Lastly, could I make one brief comment in relation to the rather wild statements made by the honourable member for Hughes with respect to dependants residing overseas. I do not believe that it is fair to accuse the Government of the sorts of things of which the honourable member for Hughes accused it. My own view is that we have demonstrated ourselves to be a Government concerned with the rights of the individual, and with the right of the individual to have executive and administrative decisions reviewed. The fact that we have set up the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and are progressing with freedom of information legislation demonstrates such a commitment. 
My situation in relation to the question of unused annual leave is that as a matter of conscience, I would find it impossible to support that provision. Nevertheless, I congratulate the Government on dropping everything contained on page 22 of the Budget Speech, which dealt with the proposed taxation of social welfare payments. I would like the opportunity to meet face to face the gentleman who came up with the bright idea of taxing people in sheltered workshops, the genius who came up with the idea of taxing non-blind paraplegics. I would really like to meet him. 
-The honourable member used to work there and I am not blaming him. I just made the point that there are some people with very interesting ideas on what is and what is not social justice in this country. It has never been my understanding that it was the idea of our party that we would tax newsboys, blind or non-blind paraplegics, and people in sheltered workshops. I am delighted that the proposals on page 22 of the Budget Speech have disappeared from the scene. With those remarks, and with the reservation I have expressed about the question of the retrospective implications in relation to unused annual leave, I support the legislation, but I must in conscience indicate my incapacity to support that particular provision. 
-Until the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  spoke I had no idea that he had made such a substantial contribution to the recent New South Wales election. It has been said that there is nothing quite like the voice of experience. I simply make the point that the honourable member for Robertson has a short memory. When he talks about the greatest annihilation of any political party in Australian history, he seems to forget December 1975 and seems to forget what happened in Queensland in 1974. At that election a political party was actually struggling to field a cricket team. Whatever he might say, the Liberal Party and the Country Party in New South Wales have enough members for at least two cricket teams. 
Indeed, as my honourable colleague reminds me, it is more like three. Let me say as one who campaigned in one seat which I believe we have held- I refer to the seat of Bligh- that this is the second New South Wales election that I can bring to mind that has been won on false pretences. The election in 1976 was won on the false pretence that, if the Liberal 
Party was returned to Government, double taxation would be introduced. That was a shameful shabby political deceit, a confidence trick of proportions unequalled by any other event since Federation. 
What did we have this time? We did not have any Party standing for election; we had  Mr Wran  and his Government. One could not find the word 'Labor' on any advertisement, on any bill poster or in any television or radio commercial. Labor was in New South Wales, as it is throughout the rest of Australia at present, a dirty word. Neville Wran must take the prize for winning an election. In fact I think he will go down in history as the only Labor leader who won an election by pretending to be a Liberal. 
The people of New South Wales- I have no right to say this but I will- are in for a very big shock. I wonder what will happen when the redistribution comes along next year. It may well be that the people unwittingly have been conned by this smooth, suave-talking armchair socialist, this man who puts himself forward as one of them when in fact not only is he not one of them but also is, as my colleague the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  has said repeatedly, a prisoner of the Left. He has been reelected as Premier. How will the people feel when Frank Walker steps from the side and takes over? That will happen. How will they feel when the boundaries are redrawn so that Labor stays in power through the greatest gerrymander that this country has seen. 
I say to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as you are from Queensland, that I get sick and tired of people grizzling to me about the alleged gerrymander there. Do you know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that for the Liberals in South Australia to gain government- for the anti-socialists to win- they have to get 54.5 per cent of the vote. I make the prediction that when  Mr Wran  and his colleagues, the people who run the Party from inside, the left wingers whom my colleagues the honourable member for St George, the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  and the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  repeatedly are pointing out to the people of Australia, pass their gerrymander 60 per cent of the vote will be needed to get Wran out of office. That is exactly what will happen. I ask a rhetorical question of the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  who is at the table. Can the Federal Government do anything to protect the people of New South Wales and - 
-To prevent the 'Nifty Nev- mander' which is going on. We have to do something to ensure that the gerrymander is not passed. Otherwise by corruption and by the rigging of boundaries, the people of New South Wales might unwittingly find themselves subjected to a socialist government for a quarter of a century. Can we in this Parliament do anything as a matter of urgency to head off what I predict will be the greatest gerrymander and rigging that the people of New South Wales are not prepared to accept? If this Parliament does not act I believe that  Mr Wran  will be in control to the end of the century by virtue of a rigged gerrymander. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  MillarOrder!  It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until 2.15 p.m. tomorrow. 
-Has the Minister for Defence seen the assertion in the  Australia Financial Review  that he suggested to Parliament yesterday that there might be no need to do anything about the radioactive waste buried at Maralinga other than to upgrade the police guard? As I did not hear the Minister say anything like this yesterday and a check of  Hansard  this morning has confirmed my recollection, I ask the Minister whether there is any truth in this report. 
-The Opposition's matter of public importance today stands exposed as an exercise in cant and hypocrisy, barefaced effrontery and unashamed humbug. Who would have thought for one moment that so soon after the evil event the Opposition would have had the gall to bring into this chamber a debate on the question of overseas loans? It demonstrates beyond any reasonable doubt the massive guilt complex of the Australian Labor Party with respect to the loans affair of 13 December 1974 and thereafter. It proves once again that the ghosts of Khemlani, signed and unsigned letters of introduction, Iraqi breakfasts, temporary purposes and midnight clandestine deals with the financial prostitutes of the world in darkened alleyways still loom large in the minds of members of the Opposition. They do not seem to be able to remember the details of constitutional conspiracy, deceit and deception, incompetence and irregularity. 
Colleagues of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  got their fingers caught in the till. I believe that after today the honourable member for Adelaide ought to be called Honey Hurford ' because if ever anybody got his fingers caught in the honey jar today it was him for having the effrontery to bring such a poppycock matter of public importance into this House. With his frequent references to 'flushing out', he reminded me a little of the man who one morning by mistake took Harpic instead of Eno 's salts and went clean round the bend. The honourable member repeatedly talked about flushing out this and flushing out that. He does not have to flush very hard because today we have a Treasurer who, and a government which makes public all dealings in relation to overseas loans. The honourable member needs just to pick up a Press statement issued by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and dated 6 September 1978. He will see in chapter and verse the dealings and details of proposed loans from the Deutsche Bank, which is certainly not a backyard procurer of finance and certainly not an intermediary of finance such as those intermediaries with which the Labor Government dealt. 
It is all in the Press statement in black and white. The honourable member can see the interest rates, the terms and the details. If he is not happy with that information, he can look at the next Press release, No. 105, which was issued on 5 October. He will see that the Government has been negotiating loans with organisations such as the Long Term Credit Bank, the Mitsubishi Trust and Banking Co. and the Nippon Life Insurance Co. These are not Khemlanis; they are not backyard financiers; they are not midnighters. We deal in the open. We are a government which will continue to deal in the open so that the people can see exactly what is going on. What is wrong with the Labor Party? It seems to equate loans with the number of people in the population. What an extraordinary proposition! It is not a question of per capita; it is a question of the capacity to repay; it is a question of the credit rating of the nation. Thank God, Australia now has a AAA credit rating. It did not have it in 1974; it did not have it in 1975.I believe that it is due to the proper policies of our Government, to the integrity of our Treasurers since we came back to power in 1975 and to the rectitude of our economic planning that we have that AAA credit rating. 
What is the position? As the Treasurer said, at present the Commonwealth's external debtthat is, taking into account the end borrowingswill amount to 5 per cent of the gross domestic product. This compares with 6.5 per cent a decade ago. More importantly, I believe, with all due respect to the Treasurer, is the fact that the relevant percentage for export income would be 38.3 per cent at 1977-78 levels compared with 53.2 per cent a decade ago. What is the Opposition on about? The honourable member for Adelaide admitted that Australia's reserves, balance of payments, balance of trade and overseas borrowings are sensitive issues. What is the Opposition trying to do in this matter of public importance today? 
I do not like to rake over coals so I will do no more than to remind the Parliament and the nation that it was on 4 October 1977 that this House took the most unprecedented step of formally censuring one of its members for his economic subversion and total irresponsibility with respect to the strength and standing of the Australian dollar. I refer to that incident because it involved a formal censure by this House of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who is now the Leader of the Opposition. It ill behoves the honourable member for Adelaide and his colleague to come into this chamber in such a gloomy way, as Jonahs and Jerimiahs, and to knock and whinge. They are talking about total overseas borrowings in excess of $2,000m. They did not seem to be too keen to talk about proposed borrowings of $4,000m for temporary purposes; they did not seem to be too concerned at that time about what they were doing to Australia. I want to quote from a couple of speeches which were recorded in 1975 just to see how they line up with what we have heard this afternoon. The honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  in an epic speech on 9 July 1975, which is recorded on page 3642 of  Hansard  of that date, quotes the present Leader of the Opposition as saying: 
The Australian Government's international reputation as a prime borrower is such that it does not need to use any form of intermediary. In the past it has always confined overseas loan negotiations to dealing directly with principals; leading financial institutions in overseas capital markets. 
That is what he said. What did the former Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  say? He said: 
Australia should - 
I know the honourable member does not like this. He is one of the guilty ones. He was in the Parliament then. He was removed later and he is back again now. He was one of the guilty ones. The honourable member has a guilty conscience. Yet he has the gall to come in here and preach to us about the propriety of borrowing overseas. A former Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  said: 
Australia should, I suggest, carefully preserve its reputation as a steady and cautious borrower on official account.  (Quorum formed). 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Before the honourable member for Denison resumes his speech I would remind him that the matter before the Chair is the Fraser Government's failure to justify its vast overseas borrowings program. I would suggest that the honourable member should keep his remarks relevant to that subject. 
-Certainly, sir. In fact, I make the point that, unlike with those who had the effrontery to bring this matter into the chamber today and those who covered up and who dealt by darkness and at night time, we now have a Government, a Treasurer and a group of people running this country who make it quite clear what are their dealings. We do not go round in the middle of the night dealing with people whom I have described as the financial prostitutes of the world. 
In order to demonstrate my point, I refer again to the epic speech of the honourable member for Wentworth in 1975. He said: 
Why was it that this Executive Council Minute approved a borrowing of $4,000m for temporary purposes when the borrowing was known to be and was intended to be a longterm borrowing for long-term purposes? How did the Governor-General come to approve a resolution for such temporary purposes when the borrowing was for indefinite purposes? What was the reaction of the Treasury? 
Nobody has asked those questions about our last two loans. Nobody has had to stand in this House and say: 'For what are you borrowing Deutsche marks and yen on the basis of temporary purposes?' Nobody has thrown one jot of suspicion against this Government. I believe it is contemptible for the honourable member for Adelaide and his colleagues to come into this House today and endeavour to impugn the integrity of the present Treasurer. The implication was that we do in 1978 what they did in 1974 and 1975 and nothing could be further from the truth. The Government emerges from the discussion of this matter of public importance with its reputation untarnished despite the attacks of the Opposition. 
-The contribution of the Opposition to what I believe is an important debate can be described only as pitiful and disgraceful. The shabby and somewhat rambling diatribe by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  was, to say the least, disappointing for a man who is reputed to be one of the most intelligent members of the Parliament. In my respectful submission, his performance tonight was nothing short of disgraceful.  (Quorum formed).  When in due course the pensioners of Australia read  Hansard  they will be interested to learn that during the debate on these social welfare Bills tonight three quorums were called by the Labor Party. On the first occasion three Labor Party members were present, on the second occasion three were present and on the third and last occasion four were present. That means that the average attendance of the Labor Party in this chamber during the forming of a quorum over the last hour has been three and a half. That is indeed flattering. 
-We do not need to look too hard to see which one is the half.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you would not have believed that this important debate dealt with 27.8 per cent of the total Budget outlays. We are talking about an appropriation of $8,0 15m, an increase of $524m on the actual expenditure last year for social security and social welfare, which amounted to $7,490m. Of that total appropriation of $8,0 15m some $6, 602m is to be expended on pensions and benefits payable under the Social Services Act. That represents an increase of $399m over that paid in 1977-78. So we see that the Labor Party is the great poser. It believes that it can con the pensioners every election time into believing that it is genuinely concerned for them. Members of the Labor Party have been revealed tonight as posers and hypocrites, prepared once again to play politics with the pensioners of Australia in a most shabby and disgraceful manner. 
The honourable member for Prospect, having slunk out of the chamber at the conclusion of his remarks, has now come back into the chamber. He concluded his remarks by accusing the entire Department of Social Security of being antimigrant. He also tossed in the Commonwealth Police Force for good measure. That would be one of the most irresponsible accusations I have ever heard in my life. I do not have a great reputation for defending public servants or Ministers, but I do say on this occasion that the honourable member did little credit to himself, did little credit to the people in this chamber and did little credit to those who are going to read this debate by his outrageous allegation. These officers are far from being anti-migrant. I place on record my appreciation of the officers of the Department of Social Security in Tasmania, from the Director down. I place on record my appreciation of the present Director-General of Social Services,  Mr Lanigan,  for his approachability and his compassion. Really, how anybody like the larrikin member for Prospect can stand in this chamber and describe the Department of Social Security as anti-migrant and get away with it just makes one wonder. No wonder he is called Tricky Dicky. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I shall come back to the legislation and say in specific terms to the honourable member for Prospect that I do not take any great pleasure in responding to him when he called the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  a hypocrite. The honourable member for St George has more character and more courage than many honourable members on the other side of the House. I do not believe it is appropriate for him to be described as a hypocrite when he has the courage of his convictions to stand up and speak out on matters of conscience. The honourable member for Prospect made a big statement about whether the honourable member for St George would do this or that. Apart from Captain Sam Benson, I do not remember any member of the Labor Party standing up on a matter of conscience and saying: 'I disagree with what the Party machine has said'. I do not recall any member of the Labor Party crossing the floor. I do not recall Labor members abstaining from voting. Of course they would not because they are prisoners of the Left, and if they move one inch out of line, off goes the head. It is tragic to see captive brains, genius brains, such as those of  Dr Blewitt,  a prisoner of the Left, locked into a situation where they cannot excerise their independent will and conscience. 
I will not speak at great length because I believe the matters to which I want to advert are clear cut. It does not worry me one iota what the honourable member for Prospect says about me or indeed even thinks about me. The fact is that I want to put my position clearly in this Parliament, as I have done from the day I first walked into this chamber and as I will continue to do until the day I walk out of here. Unlike the honourable member for Prospect, who thinks he is immortal, I recognise that the day will come when I will walk out of here. 
I want to avert to three specific matters which I believe are matters of importance. I am proud to be a member of a party in which the conscience of its members is recognised. That, I think, is one of the most valuable things about being a member of our party. Back in 1975 in what was a fairly heated campaign, if one might say so, in what was a campaign in which the Labor Party sought to generate a phoney constitutional crisis, the people of Australia were looking to real value. In particular, the pensioners of Australia were looking for some alternative to the wretched, rotten, despicable government which had decided to tax them most viciously as it had done in the Budget of 1974 and the Hayden horror Budget of 1 975. We went to the pensioners of Australia and said: 'In order that politics may be taken out of pensions, we will grant automatic and instantaneous indexation of your pensions'. As the honourable member for St George has recalled, in 1976 we made history in this country by being the first government to legislate for automatic pension increases. It is something of which we can be very proud, and that legislation was in pursuance of the pledge given during the December 1975 Federal election campaign. 
It was indeed a promise kept and, if I might say so, a promise kept is a promise which will be respected. I must say that at that time I found it difficult to accept that sixmonthly increases were 'automatic and instantaneous' in view of the fact that the cost of living was indexed quarterly. But nevertheless, like the honourable member for St George and many other honourable members, I went along with it. I would find it legally impossible and, as a matter of conscience, completely impossible to argue that annual indexation, as I see it, is either automatic or instantaneous. So I find myself in exactly the same position as the honourable member for St George in respect of that provision. I do not believe it is consistent either with the pledge that we made in 1975 or indeed with the comments that we made in 1977 that we had taken politics out of pensions '. For those reasons I wish to make it quite clear that unlike those prisoners on the other side of the House who are just little minions and pawns I am going to exercise a conscience vote on this matter, and I will not support the provision.  (Quorum formed). 
The numbers on the Labor Party side have increased slightly on this occasion but once again it demonstrates their absolute contempt and their absolute lack of concern for the welfare of the pensioners of Australia. And shame on those people who sit opposite. They are condemned for their political cynicism for once again playing politics with pensions and with pensioners. The extraordinary thing about the rabble on the other side of the chamber is that even when we on this side are agreeing with them they are so thick that they have to interrupt us. It is most incredible. They interrupted the honourable member for St George when he was agreeing with the comments made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  They are so stupid, they are so incompetent and they are so insensitive to the needs of the pensioners of Australia that they will remain in opposition at least until the year 200 1 . The next matter I want to - 
I would like to ask the honourable member when he has ever voted according to his conscience and crossed the floor. He would not have the intestinal fortitude to cross the floor. He is not going to worry me one iota. As my colleague the honourable member for St George said, after all he is a political retread- an escapee from the Victorian Parliament. I now turn to the question of means testing the over-70 year olds. I take a contrary view to that expressed by my colleague the honourable member for St George. I do not believe that the decision to means test increases for pensioners over the age of 70 years is a good decision. I believe it to be a decision which is distressing a large number of people, which will be an administrative nightmare and which intrudes into my concept of social justice. It is a provision which I find totally unacceptable. I would therefore not be prepared to cast my vote in support of that provision. 
Lastly I wish to turn to a matter which has not been discussed by any other honourable member, and it is the question of maternity allowances. I believe that the question of maternity allowances is a matter of some importance. I am staggered- no, I am not really staggered that members of the Labor Party are not concerned with maternity and motherhood. They are carrying the can for the abortion racketeers in this country at the moment. 
I am not surprised that they are not at all concerned. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond) 

Order! 
It is very interesting that he has taken a point of order, in view of the last comment I made about abortion racketeers. 
-The House is indeed indebted to the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  for raising this matter of public importance. Once again the honourable member for St George has shown what a distinguished contribution he can make in this Parliament and will make for many years to come. On the other side of the coin, what a disappointing performance from the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  a man who has been referred to as the white hope of the right wing of the Labor Party. My word, his few supporters would be bitterly disappointed with him today, particularly the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is not even in the chamber to support what must be one of the weakest performances ever. As my colleague the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  has said, his price has drifted; he has drifted right out of the door. 
Honourable members may not yet be aware that the honourable member for Blaxland has been appointed the Labor Party spokesman, would you believe, for Tasmania. He was in Tasmania last week and he made the greatest political mistake of his career, the greatest blunder of the decade, because when in Tasmania he actually attacked the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck).  If ever there is a way to political suicide and extinction it is to attack the sincere, hard working and dedicated honourable member for Franklin. I believe that the honourable member for Blaxland sold out the side. He sold out those moderates, those right wingers in the Labor Party, those few genuine Labor men with a commitment to social justice, with the weak speech that he gave in this House this morning. He has meekly aligned himself with the pro-communist, left wing trendies of the Labor Party. What a shameful thing for him to do. There are serious implications not only for the nation but also for Tasmania in some of the comments made by the honourable member for Blaxland. I simply ask: Where does Mount Lyell stand after these comments that he has made? 
Indeed he did. What is the future of the Australian motor industry, particularly in the electorate of my colleague the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  who has been an indefatigable fighter for the motor industry of Australia that virtually got the kiss of death today from the honourable member for Blaxland. It is not often that the general public gets a clear and detailed insight into the ulterior motives and designs of the Australian Labor Party actually to socialise Australia with widespread nationalisation of the private sector and the eventual and total destruction of free enterprise. Usually the hard line procommunist Left of the ALP contains and conceals its ultra-socialist ambitions. In recent times we have seen Labor leaders, such as the former honourable member for Lalor,  Dr Cairns,  the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the present honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  flirting with the private sector, cuddling up to business and industry and murmuring softly: 'We are your friends. We are not really against free enterprise. We are not really socialists. You can trust us'. I must say to private enterprise in Australia: 'Do not be deceived, do not be misled, do not be seduced or you will be destroyed permanently and irrevocably. You would not kiss a cobra but that is what you will be doing if you even dialogue with these doctrinaire socialists'. 
Is it not a tragedy for Australia that today the Australian Labor Party has moved further to the Left than ever before in its history? That meansand I am forced to say it- that it is now closer to doctrinaire communism under the present Leader of the Opposition than it has ever been in the history of this country. Do honourable members think that people like Ben Chifley and John Curtin could have lived with these left wing trendies? Is it thought for one moment that they would have tolerated the plans that these people have to destroy Australia? I rely on the passages quoted by my colleague the honourable member for St George. I also want to quote from an article by Patrick O'Brien which was published in the September issue of  Quadrant.  I repeat that the report to which the honourable member for St George referred is the report of a national committee. It is a discussion paper of very great significance to the Australian Labor Party. What was it that Patrick O'Brien had to say about the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett),  who was the secretary of that national committee of inquiry? He said: 
The most recent proposal for centralisation of political power in Australia has come from  Dr Neil  Blewett, formerly Professor of Political Theory at Flinders University and now Labor MHR for the South Australian seat of Bonython. 
-That is quite so. Let me quote from the discussion paper so that the people of Australia will know exactly what is in the mind of the honourable member for Bonython and the pro-communist left wing socialists within the Australian Labor Party. He said: 
State intervention must therefore be of a different nature than just organising capital more efficiently. 
The next words are vital. He continued: 
Its intervention needs to be of the nature whereby major private firms are taken into public ownership and investment expenditure decisions in those firms made from that position- that is, the position of public ownership. 
My colleague the honourable member for St George referred to a list of 100 companies in Australia which could be affected by such a policy. I look with concern to the people of Tasmania because no fewer than four of those 100 companies would comprise between them the main bulk of the private enterprise employment in Tasmania. Where would Tasmania stand if EZ Industries Ltd were to be socialised? 

 Government members interjecting- 


 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for Denison is quite capable of delivering his speech without the assistance of honourable members on my right. I ask them to remain silent. 
-Where would Tasmania stand if EZ Industries Ltd were to be nationalised, if Renison Bell were to be nationalised or if Consolidated Gold Fields Australia Ltd were to be nationalised? I welcome the presence in the chamber of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom),  who is a great fighter for the electorate of Braddon and the people of the west coast of Tasmania. Where would we stand if Cadbury Schweppes Pty Ltd were to be nationalised? It is not just a matter of socialised chocolates. We are talking about the jobs of over 1,000 Tasmanians. This is the sort of thing that the people of Tasmania should realise. Last week the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Blaxland made mealy-mouth comments in Tasmania, such as: 'We love you. We have remembered you after 1975 and 1977 and we have come down to tell you that we are going to give Tasmania a good deal. We will keep Mt Lyell going. We will continue the support'. What did the honourable member for Blaxland say? With a most incredible slip of the tongue he said: We will do it for clearly political purposes'. It is unbelievable that he should say such a thing. The real situation is, of course, that what he said, which is recorded on tape, completely and absolutely cuts across everything he said today. 
-I just want to speak very briefly, without any disrespect to the two previous speakers, the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  and the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West),  whose sincerity I do not doubt but whose comments have been totally inaccurate in respect of clause 8, in support of what the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has said. The proposed amendment contained in clause 8 is not, with respect, a matter of substance. It is a consequential amendment. Although I was outside the chamber, I heard many of the remarks of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  and I do not doubt his sincerity on the matter. This amendment is consequential upon the passage of clause 5 and does very little except to amend slightly, by broadening the terminology, something which has been the law of this country under the Liberal and Labor governments for over 30 years, that is, the simple proposition that social service benefit recipients are duty bound to notify income and changes of income. Although I do not doubt the sincerity of the speakers, I repeat that their remarks were misdirected. They do not apply to clause 8, which is a consequential drafting amendment only. 
-My remarks will be very brief. Last night I indicated my attitude with respect to the maternity allowcance and the opposition I feel as a matter of conscience with respect to clause 23. However, I want to say in fairness to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  who is at the table and who has shown himself to be remarkably sensitive and responsive to the needs of the community, that I believe he more than perhaps any other Minister would watch closely the impact of the alteration with respect to the family allowance scheme on young persons who are qualifying for assistance under education schemes. I do not think it is any shame on anyone that there can be a genuine difference of opinion with respect to this matter. I am more confident than perhaps I would be in some other cases that in this instance the Minister at the table will monitor the impact of this decision. It is not in my view a matter which would be regarded as a closed book. 
I make these remarks quite genuinely because I did not have an opportunity last night, due to circumstances for which I suppose I may have been partly responsible, to pay a compliment to the Minister at the table. I take the opportunity in the same spirit as did the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  to debate this matter calmly and rationally and to say that I believe the Minister will monitor this and other amendments to the social security structure of this nation over the next few months to ensure that unwitting hardship is not caused to sections of the community. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That because an additional 3,000 passengers have travelled between Tasmania and the mainland by air in the month of September and as pensioners, families and tourists have benefited substantially, the standby airfare concession scheme should be made permanent; and 
That if an overseas carrier is not prepared to institute a direct Tasmania-New Zealand air service an Australian domestic airline operator should be licensed to institute such a service. 
-Today, the Church has a new Pope and the world has a new leader of peace and goodwill for all mankind. A few short hours ago a puff of white smoke signalled the election of the 264th successor to St Peter. Minutes later a quarter of a million people crammed into St Peter's Square and heard Cardinal Felice proclaim the traditional words 'Habemus Papam' announcing the election of Pope John Paul II. After a 32-hour conclave, Cardinal Karol Wojtyla, 58-year old son of Poland and Archbishop of Cracow and joint leader of 35 million Polish Catholics, became Supreme Pontiff of the world's 700 million Catholics. He became the first non-Italian Pope for 455 years- a remarkable achievement for a man who on 18 May 1920 was born in Wadowice, the son of a factory worker. A factory worker and miner himself in his earlier years, he suffered forced labour during the Nazi occupation of Poland in World War II- at the same time studying in secrecy for the priesthood he so dearly wished to attain. He was ordained on 1 November 1946 and his academic brilliance was recognised when he was immediately transferred to Rome where he studied for two years. Appointed Archbishop of Cracow in 1964, it came as no surprise when he was created Cardinal during the Consistory of 26 June 1 967. 
Of sturdy build, round faced, firm jawed and with silver-grey hair, this newly created Prince of the Church, fluent in French, Italian, English and German and powerful in his native tongue, attained joint leadership of his Church in Poland with the heroic Cardinal Wyszynski. A profound man with strong pastoral leanings, he delighted Australians with his warmth and humour when he visited this country in 1973. He now succeeds the smiling Pope John Paul I, whose promising reign was tragically cut short after merely 33 days. Only last year the new Pope, addressing the Synod of Bishops in Rome, warned of the threat of 'programmed atheism' and the 'anti catechism of the secular'. He brings to his high office the rich tradition and spirituality of the Polish people. He now brings to the world his message of peace and goodwill for all men and women of all creeds and all nations. 
My question is to the Minister for Transport. If an overseas carrier such as Qantas Airways Ltd or Air New Zealand Ltd is not prepared to institute a direct Tasmania-New Zealand air passenger service, is there any substantive reason why the Federal Government should not license a willing Australian domestic airline operator to institute such a regular air passenger service? 
-On 17 October in this House I gave notice of motion the first part of which was a plea for the Federal Government to make permanent the standby airfare concession scheme. The second part of the motion I shall read in full. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for Denison will not be in order if he makes reference to proceedings in the House. 
-No. I am merely referring to this as a matter of record. 
It gives me great pleasure to speak to the estimates of the Department of Science. May I say at the outset that I hope that I live to see the day when the Department of Science is renamed and becomes the Department of Science and the Antarctic. I have put such a proposal to the Government but to date it has not received acceptance. It is my genuine belief that because of Australia 's historical connection with the Antarctic, extending back to 1810 when Macquarie Island was first discovered by an Australian, and our continuing involvement in the Antarctic, the Antarctic is sufficiently important to be recognised at least in the naming of a department and under the responsibility of a Minister who is identifiable as Australia's Minister for the Antarctic. It is a matter of very great pride and pleasure to me personally and I believe to all Tasmanians regardless of political persuasion, that last week at Kingston in Tasmania the commencement of earthworks, site works, at the site of the Antarctic Division got under way. It has been a dream for many of us that we would eventually see the commencement of work on the transfer of the Antarctic Division. It is, in fact, now under way. Over the next  2Vi  years, substantial works will be carried out in that area. The original price of $7.3m on March 1 977 figures, in my view, will be exceeded substantially. I would be very surprised at the completion of the Antarctic Division at Kingston if there is any change out of $ 10m. I go further and say that the associated works which will be carried out in the area by the private sector, by the State government and local government will mean that that complex will be worth about $20m to the municipality of Kingborough. It will have a marked effect on the economy not only of Hobart but also of southern Tasmania during the period of construction. 
It is as well to remind ourselves of Australia's involvement in the Antarctic. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that by virtue of the Australian Antarctic Territory Acceptance Act of 1936, the Australian Government became responsible for an area which comprises about three-sevenths of Antarctica. Australia has been active in this area since 1947 and has maintained a permanent presence since 1 954 through the occupancy of research stations by the Australian National Antarctic Research Expedition at Mawson, Casey and Davis. In December 1959 Australia and 1 1 other nations signed the Antarctic Treaty which laid down some important principles underlying national and international involvements in scientific research in Antarctica. International collaboration had begun during the International Geophysical Year in 1957 and has continued uninterrupted on the continent itself and through regular consultative meetings of nations adhering to the Treaty. The last of those meetings was held last year in London. The Australian National Antarctic Research Expedition and the Antarctic Division are located within the Department of Science. They have provided outstanding service to Australia over the years through activities on the continent and the sub-Antarctic islands. I just mention in passing some small pleasure that in looking at Mawson's Proclamation whereby Australia laid claim to the Antarctic, included in the description is a group of islets known as the Hodgeman islets. I note they are spelt in the South Australian fashion of Hodgeman; nevertheless the Hodgeman islets were claimed by Mawson and are defined in the proclamation he made. 
With respect to the Antarctic Division, its two main recognised functions are, firstly, the general administration and logistic support of ANARE involving the establishment and maintenance of Antarctic and sub-Antarctic stations, the mounting of annual expeditions to the Antarctic- the next expedition will go early in December- and the co-ordination of the relevant activities of the agencies which make up the ANARE; and, secondly, to conduct approved programs in various fields of scientific research which presently include upper atmosphere physics, cosmic ray physics, glaciology, biology and medical science. 
In relation to the Antarctic Division, as I mentioned a moment ago the 1977 estimate of costs was $7.3m. But to that must be added the estimated cost of $1.2m for the two laboratory buildings and associated services proposed for the Antarctic Division. If we add those two figures together we get a figure of $8.5m. I therefore predict with some confidence that there will not be much change left from $ 1 0m by the end of 1 980. 1 think I would be failing in my duty if I did not do this at this point in time pay tribute, firstly, to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for the determination of the Government to ensure that the Antarctic base was transferred to Kingston, and, secondly and jointly, to the two responsible Ministers- the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  and the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay).  Both Ministers have shown a keen interest in the progress of what has been a somewhat protracted matter. I believe that at this point of time they should be congratulated and thanked for the fact that the dream has now become a reality. I also take the opportunity of placing on record my gratitude to the head of the Department of Construction in Tasmania,  Mr Allan  McKenzie, and his staff and the architects, engineers and consultants who worked on the project. Going back a little further in time, I pay tribute to those who rallied to the cause and gave evidence before the Public Works Committee during its hearings in 1977. 1 mention in passing the valuable contribution of the Hobart Chamber of Commerce, the University of Tasmania, the State Government and a host of other individuals and organisations who rallied to the cause. 
There is one matter that I raise in relation to the Antarctic Division. It is a dream that I have that Mawson's hut, or a replica of Mawson's hut to be more precise, should be constructed at the site of the Antarctic base at Kingston. The best scientific evidence available indicates that it would be completely wrong to remove Mawson's original hut from the Antarctic. I understand that it would deteriorate. Besides, there are very strong historical reasons for leaving it where it is. I thought, like most people, that the hut was a small hut but its dimensions are quite substantial. They are 30 feet by 30 feet. I suppose I should be using metric measurements, particularly on the estimates for this particular Department. The hut which measures 30 feet by 30 feet is a fairly substantial construction. It has been drawn to my attention by one of the architects working on the Antarctic Division that there is not sufficient land for a replica of that hut to be put on the site. Accordingly, I give notice that I will be making an approach to the Minister for Science who has been very keenly interested in this matter to see whether the Government might be able to acquire some extra ground so that a replica of Mawson's hut can be constructed adjacent to the Antarctic base. I believe it would be a great tourist attraction. The interior could be used for a first-class Antarctic museum. Not only would it be a tourist attraction of some significance, it would also have substantial educational qualities. I know that my colleague the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann),  who is at the table, would be quite happy to convey what I have said to the Minister for Science. I, of course, will be pursuing the matter with him. 
I will refer to two other matters in the minute or two remaining to me. I remind the Committee of the enormous resources of the Antarctic and the need for the establishment of an international organisation to govern the use of the marine resources of the Antarctic waters. Earlier this year the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  chaired a meeting in Australia involving the treaty nations. I understand that a further meeting could be held either later this year or early next year. I urge that Australia is the logical site for the headquarters of that international marine resources organisation; and clearly there can be only two choices- Canberra or Kingston. For a number of reasons with which I will not bore the Committee at this point of time, I simply say that Kingston, Tasmania, wins hands down. The proposition I am putting to the Government, therefore is that if Australia is to host this international organisation we should have the opportunity to see it established next to the Antarctic base at Kingston. If this happens, hopefully the treaty nations will establish what I call Antarctic embassies next to that. In other words, Kingston, Tasmania, into the twenty-first century should logically be the headquarters for the management of the resources of the Antarctic. 
My time has almost expired. I thank the Government for standing firm on the question of the transfer. I assure the Committee that this decision will not be regretted. It is a decision that all Tasmanians welcome. It is one that I, as the member for the electorate concerned, welcome most particularly and warmly. 
-As one who believes in the proposition 'You heard it first in Federal Parliament' let me now briefly and officially inform the House that at this very moment Ansett Airlines of Australia are conducting feasibility surveys into the possibility of applying to operate a direct passenger air service between Tasmania and New Zealand. Honourable members will recall that the matter was discussed last week and it is indeed refreshing that a domestic airline operator has moved speedily within hours of the statement in the House of Representatives by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to conduct a feasibility survey with a possibility of establishing this direct air service. As I have indicated, both Air New Zealand and Qantas have had ample opportunity to institute such a service. They have chosen not to do so and in these circumstances I repeat that there is absolutely nothing wrong with a domestic Australian operator seeking a licence to operate offshore. Let me briefly set out the facts as they have been given to me by Ansett concerning the 
First and foremost, Ansett Airlines has advised that such a service will have to be operated by a Boeing 727 or nothing. In other words it is not in a position to purchase new aircraft for the institution of such a service. However, I note the announcement by the Minister for Transport today that Ansett Airlines is seeking approval from the Government for funds to purchase another Boeing 727. Who knows but that we may be fortunate enough to have access to that plane when it is acquired by Ansett. I am informed that there are two alternatives. The first is the use of an aircraft of the Boeing 727 100 series and the second is the use of an aircraft of the Boeing 727 200 series. In addition, the airline is carrying out a traffic survey as to the amount of business that could be expected. My own view and the view of the people who have collected statistics in recent months with a view to encouraging a domestic operator to institute the service is that there is certainly enough traffic to warrant a fortnightly service and possibly even a weekly service. It is, of course, obvious to all honourable members that people travelling from Tasmania to New Zealand direct would be saved the cost of $100 which is the current return air fare to Melbourne. Without any disrespect to Victorian members, it would also save the unpleasantness of having to spend several hours at Tullamarine Airport. In addition, a feasibility survey as to tariffs and timetables is under way. 
There are only three remaining steps to be taken. I understand that the Pilots Federation has an international agreement that international flights will not operate on domesticroutes and that domestic operators will not operate on international routes. I simply make the point that, as there is no direct route at the moment between Tasmania and New Zealand, no direct route between Hobart and Christchurch, which is the specific route under consideration, that international agreement does not apply. In addition the operator would require the approval of the Federal Government and the New Zealand Government. There is no doubt at all as to the approval of the Federal Government in view of the publicly expressed attitude of the Minister and for that I congratulate him. I do not believe that the New Zealand Government would have any basis at all to refuse a licence to permit Ansett Airlines of Australia to operate directly from Tasmania to New Zealand. If Air New Zealand is not sufficiently interested to operate such a service, I believe that the Government of New Zealand is in no position to say that 
October 1978 REPRESENTATIVES 2319 
I am bitterly disappointed in my honourable and learned colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  because he had been, with respect, quite negligent tonight in the preparation of his brief. The first point I make is that the figures and evidence he quoted have now been superseded and those figures and those statements are no longer applicable. 
I support and the Government supports these guidelines for one very simple reason: The guidelines will release an additional Sim worth of legal aid for the pensioners of Australia. I am staggered to find the -Australian Labor Party opposing a proposition which in essence takes legal aid from the rich and will give more legal aid to the poor. I will knock this argument right on, the head here and now because, whilst the honourable member was quite correct in saying that $40 was too low, the figure has now been increased as a result of these guidelines to $52 a week disposable income. That is not just gross disposable income. It is net disposable income because one deducts rent, mortgage payments, hire purchase commitments for household goods and furniture and municipal rates. I suggest that, if one adds up these items one is talking about a person with a gross weekly income in excess of $100 and not a figure of $75 that was quoted by the honourable member. 
Despite the fact that any alternation to the guidelines will cause hardship in some quarters, I made my position abundantly clear as chairman of the Government Members Law and Government Committee. I made it abundantly clear in the party room and I make it abundantly clear tonight that I support the new guidelines because they will release an additional $lm worth of legal aid to the pensioners of Australia. I believe they need it. I am staggered that the Labor Party is opposing what, on the face of it, is a very fine move in the question of social justice which will give legal aid to people who at present have been denied it. It absolutely staggers me. I refer to the speech of the Attorney-General when he said: 
The present guidelines permit a disposable weekly income of $40 for a person without dependants . . . 
It is true that that figure has been frozen for some three years. That is something which I think all of us regret but it is a fact of life due to the economic situation which has applied in this country over the last 3 years. There are, of course, additional allowances for dependants and I will deal with them in some detail. The AttorneyGeneral continued: 
With the savings resulting from the changes it has been possible for the Government to raise the amount of the permissible disposable weekly income by $12. This brings the permissible disposable income for a person without dependants to $52. 
In the case of dependants the situation is that for the first child $15 a week is added, for each additional dependant the amount of $10 a week is added. Of course, that also covers the wife. The adjustment of $12 will flow through to persons with dependants. There will be no change in the allowance for dependants. 
I think it important, in view of the grossly misleading comments of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports to refer to seven items of expenditure which are deducted from the gross income in order to come up with what is described as the disposable weekly income. First, income tax is deducted; secondly, superannuation contributions are deducted; thirdly, one half of any board paid by the applicant is deducted; fourthly, and this is unlimited, rent or mortgage payments for the dwelling house in which the applicant resides are deducted; fifthly, municipal rates and water rates for the dwelling house in which the applicant resides are deducted; sixthly, maintenance payments to spouse and children of applicants are deducted; and, seventhly, payments under hire purchase agreements and credit sales contracts for household goods and furniture used by the applicant in his own home are deducted. I repeat: If those amounts are totalled a situation will arise where gross income would exceed $100. I now say categorically- I have checked this out and I invite the honourable member for Melbourne Ports to check it outthat any person living below the poverty line in this country as a result of these changes will now be entitled to legal aid. He was quite right when he said that some time ago that was not the situation but as a result of the progressive social justice reform of this Government in these new guidelines, that situation is now altered. 
The second thing I say to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports is this: Approximately three months ago the Women's Electoral Lobby in Hobart organised what turned out to be a most useful seminar on legal aid. A point which emerged which I believe the people of Australia ought to know is that the legal aid guidelines in Australia are the most generous in the Western world. I will repeat that,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because we checked the figures with the United Kingdom, we checked the figures with the United States of America and we even had a check of figures, for example, in a country such as France. The legal aid guidelines in Australia today are the most generous in the world. I want that on record. I invite any member of the Australian Labor Party-  Senator Evans  or anybody else- to disprove the facts that I have now put before the Committee. It does not necessarily mean that everybody is content, least of all the Attorney-General, with the current situation. 
For the second time this year tragically we find a situation where funds have been exhausted in Tasmania. They are currently exhausted in Victoria. But I think, on the other side of the ledger, it should be pointed out that in the other four States the funds are not so exhausted. There are undoubtedly problems in Victoria and Tasmania at which we should look. If that implies some criticism, let me simply say that I will be inviting those involved in the administration of the scheme in Tasmania and members of the legal profession in my State to confer with me in the hope that we might come up with some explanation of why this is happening. I do not let the legal profession escape unscathed in relation to this matter because these guidelines have been brought in because the legal profession refused to accept a reduction to 80 per cent. The incredible fact is that in State schemes operating in Victoria and in Tasmania the profession accepts 80 per cent for State legal aid but it will not accept it for Australian legal aid. I have no doubt that I might incur the wrath of some of my colleagues at the Bar in Tasmania who will say: You are out of the profession at the moment'. I might be going back, one does not know but I do make this point: We did legal aid work at 50 per cent barely ten years ago. 
My honourable colleague, the honourable member for Diamond Valley, used to do it for free as did many members of the profession. I do call upon the profession to regain its conscience and to make a genuine contribution. I do not believe it is right that members of the profession should look to legal aid for making their livelihood. 
-The Attorney mentioned this the other night. I am pleased that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports agrees with me on that as indeed does his colleague the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones).  I am told that in the United States of America it is not uncommon for practitioners in big firms to take leave for a couple of years and go out into the community to assist legal aid through neighbourhood legal aid schemes. I believe there are many retired members of the profession who could make a valuable contribution. I knowindeed, I believe that many of my colleagues in all States would know- that there are many young members of the profession who cannot get into firms. There is an employment problem in the profession. I urge them to take a year off to go into the Fitzroy Legal Aid Service or any of these worthwhile organisations in order to give the community the benefit of their training. 
I make the point- I think it is a valid point to make because the Attorney himself has made itthat legal aid has been frozen for three years due to economic circumstances in this country. Had the inflation rate been applied, the budget this year would have been $ 1 6m not $ 12.2m, so there is a gap of some $3. 8m. Under these guideline changes, we will pick up $lm of that. If, as I believe may be the situation, the Attorney-General puts a further submission to the Government for an extra allocation in the autumn session of Parliament, I simply want to place on record that he would have the entire and very strong support of the law and government committee and, I believe, of members on both sides of the chamber. I am grateful for the fact that the honourable member for Melbournre Ports did concede a genuine concern on my part. We must always remember that every extra dollar we spend this financial year is a dollar that will have to be raised by taxes next financial year to foot the bill. That question, I believe, has to be borne in mind because if we do not bear it in mind we are totally irresponsible. I refer to the presence in the chamber of my distinguished and learned colleague, the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney),  who has drawn to my attention an incredible editorial in today's Sydney  Sun  under the heading: 'The Poor Must Pay'. When talking about legal aid it goes on to say: 
For the poor, it is now a little harder to remedy situations which affect their daily lives. 
But the rich can afford to hire divisions of lawyers to do battle for them. 
I just want to say to the editor of the Sydney  Sun  that in the amendments we are bringing in which he has condemned in his editorial $lm worth of additional legal aid will be made available to the pensioners of Australia. Lastly, I talk about the $20 fee. I do not like it. The Attorney-General does not like it but it has to be brought in. Let it be administered humanely. I remind the House that if a man does not have $20 it is not to be levied. If he finds it difficult to pay it in one sum, I see nothing wrong with him being given the opportunity of paying 50c a week if necessary. If it is good enough to pay $20 to see a doctor, surely it must be good enough- unless the situation is so trivial as not to render any account- for some payment to be made. I place on record that I believe the amendments with respect to the divorce provisions are reasonable. I remind the Committee that they do not relate to any divorce cases involving custody; they simply relate to any case other than one where it is imperative for a divorce, where there are two people who want to be separated. I commend the Government. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Hon. Ian Robinson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I move the following amendment to the Bill: 
In proposed new section 56 (e), omit 'or brings the Service into disrepute'. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, in moving this amendment I seek the indulgence of the House to refer to two other clauses in the Bill and, indeed, to a subsequent amendment which I shall seek to move at the appropriate time. The second amendment is consequential upon this amendment which I have moved. It will be impossible for honourable members to follow my line of argument without my making reference to what will be either section 57 ( 1) or section 59 (2) of the Public Service Act when this Bill is passed. I seek that indulgence and will not trespass on the indulgence if the Chair grants it to me. 
Proposed new section 56 will replace, in the main, section 55 ( 1 ) (e) of the principal Act. Section 55 ( 1 ) (e) provides, inter alia, that where an officer is guilty of any disgraceful or improper conduct, either in his official capacity or otherwise, he shall be subject to discipline. I make it quite clear that I do not object to proposed section 56 paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) and my objection to proposed paragraph (e), if the Parliament passes it, will be that, if the Minister at any time, whether by reason of an allegation made to him or otherwise, has reason to believe that an officer of the First Division may have failed to fulfil his duty as an officer, he may by notice in writing delivered to the officer suspend the officer from duty and charge him with failure. Under proposed section 59 sub-section (2), prima facie that suspension will be without pay. 
This means, therefore, that if the Minister at any time, whether as a result of an allegation or otherwise, has reason to believe that a First Division officer has failed in his duty, that public servant can be suspended without pay until the matter is determined. My complaint is that proposed section 56 paragraph (e) sets out an offence in the following terms: he engages in improper conduct otherwise than as an officer - 
I do not object to that, and then it goes on: being conduct that affects adversely the performance of his duties - 
I do not object to that. The obvious case that comes to mind is where a man consumes a lot of alcohol one night and cannot carry out his duties in the Public Service the following morning. But I ask honourable members to listen to these words which follow: or brings the Service into disrepute. 
What does that mean? What it means is that if a public servant in his own free time has done something which in the Minister's judgment brings the Public Service into disrepute that public servant can be suspended by administrative action of the Minister and he can be suspended without pay. I make it quite clear, as I made it clear in the Committee, that I do not believe for one moment that the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister  (Mr Viner),  who is at the table, would abuse that power; but I suggest that we are seeking to put on to the statute book a power which is to be given to a Minister, who is a political animal, to take action against a public servant without trial, and the effect of that will be that that man will be suspended without pay. 
What would the situation be if a Minister thought that a public servant brought the Service into disrepute if he took part in a march in Brisbane? What would the situation be if a Minister considered that it brought the Public Service into disrepute if a man who was a First Division public servant lived with somebody who was not his lawful wife? My complaint is that this legislation will give to an unnamed future Minister a power over a public servant which I do not believe is a reasonable power and which I do believe is capable of abuse. I have no hesitation in saying that if this legislation had been brought in when the Australian Labor Party was in power our Party would have risen in horror and said: 'This is outrageous'. 
I would not be at all surprised if it went to that point because I believe, and I know that the honourable member for Hughes believes, that the rights of the ordinary individual must be protected by honourable members of good will on both sides of the House. The point I make is that, by way of this legislation, we are seeking to create an offence with no mental element at all. Simply at the instance of the Minister, if he believes that a public servant has acted, outside his duty and in his own spare time, in a manner which brings the Service into disrepute that public servant will be liable to suspension, and suspension without pay. It is for that reason that I have moved the amendment. 
I appreciate that there is a desire on the part of the Government and of the Opposition to get this legislation through. I am very conscious of the fact that it has been carefully considered by Joint Council and that the Public Service wants to see the Bill passed. However, I am absolutely amazed that those people who have argued the case for the Public Service have been prepared to accept a replacement of the words 'disgraceful or improper conduct', which are the words in the present Act, words which have a clear legal meaning and impose a very great burden on the prosecutor to establish that the conduct was disgraceful or improper. Those words have been taken out. If my amendment is not agreed to, every First Division public servant in Australia will be exposed in future to disciplinary action at the whim of a Minister. 
I will not go on to debate my second amendment except to say that it is now clear that the Minister will not need an allegation or complaint. He can act on hearsay, tittle tattle or on his own prejudiced idea of what is or what is not in the interest of the Service. That is the reason for the amendment I propose to move to proposed new section 57. 
I was given a fair hearing before the Legislation Committee. However if I had moved this amendment then I would have been out of order; so, consistent with my duty as I see it, I have moved it now. I hope that at the last ditch there may be a reconsideration by both the Minister and the honourable member representing the Opposition on this matter, and an appreciation of the fact that they are about to put in the statute books a very powerful weapon in the hands of a member of the Executive who could maliciously, and without any substantive right of review or redress being available to a public servant, take it out on a public servant about whom the Minister had formed the view that the public servant had acted contrary to the interests of the Service. Consider the situation of a public servant who in conscience wrote a letter to a newspaper criticising certain aspects of administration. Under this Bui, if the Minister considered that that action was contrary to the interests of the Service, the public servant could be suspended. However if after his case had been dealt with he were cleared he would have no statutory right to payment for the period of suspension. Far be it from me to take up the cudgels on behalf of those who have conceded the point; I am amazed that the Public Service organisations have accepted this provision. 
-I move: 
In proposed new section 57. ( 1 ) omit 'whether by reason of an allegation made to him or otherwise,' substitute 'because of an allegation made to him, ' 
I accept the decision of the House, as I am obliged to, with respect to the first amendment. Now that we have passed proposed new section 56 in its original form, its provisions are so wide that I shudder to think of the position of any First Division officer confronted with a future change of government. A Minister who may have regarded that officer's behaviour as quite proper in the first instance might well be replaced by a Minister who not only does not regard his action as proper but also is looking for any excuse at all to deal with the First Division public servant. If honourable members do not believe that this happens they should go out into the Public Service and talk to Commonwealth public servants after a change of the Australian government or to State public servants after a change of State government. With the utmost of respect to my colleague the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  whom I respect very much on this matter- I am aware of the work that he has done- I am staggered that the peak councils gave this matter away. 
I now turn to this proposed amendment. Proposed new section 57(1) reads: 
Where the Minister has at any dme, whether by reason of an allegation made to him or otherwise - 
What does 'or otherwise' mean? Somebody takes him by the arm at the races and gives him a bit of spicy gossip. He picks up something through hearsay and tittle-tattle and believes it. This situation would not apply in a court of law. And the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  for whom I have a genuine affection, stands in this chamber and defends this legislation on the basis that there is similar legislation under martial law. I am sure the public servants of Australia will be delighted to know that they are now subject to a provision taken straight out of Queen's regulations and Admiralty instructions and martial law! I do not believe that the public servants of Australia should be equated with those under military law. I say, with a great affection to the Minister, that it really was drawing a very long bow to use that argument. My objection is to the words 'or otherwise'. The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  and my friend the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  will confirm that nobody in  this  land stands in jeopardy of a conviction in a court of law unless or until somebody makes a complaint. That is the first cab off the rank. There must be a complaint. Even prosecution for a fiddling little parking metre offence has to be started by complaint. That is the law of the land for the ordinary people. The First Division public servant will be delighted to find out that we have actually put in an Act of Parliament, that disciplinary action against him can be taken whether there is an allegation made against him or 'otherwise '! 
-The honourable member is right. The experience of the honourable member for Hunter in these matters is respected in this House. He knows as well as I do that such a provision will start anonymous letters and anonymous telephone calls. 
I am sure the honourable member for Port Adelaide knows that there is validity in what I am saying. The point I wish to make and the point of my amendment are that steps should not be taken to suspend a First Division public servant unless there is at least a complaint on file, that somebody has been prepared to put his or her name to a complaint and it is there on file in the Minister's office. We have the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. We have the Ombudsman. How is the AAT or the Ombudsman to conduct an inquiry and review a ministerial decision to suspend a First Division public servant if there is a right of review- and that is arguable- when there is no file at all? Perhaps such information may have come by a midnight telephone message to the Minister's wife who passed it on to the Minister. This is not putting the situation too strongly. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, and the honourable member for Port Adelaide, would probably act properly. However, we are putting this provision on to the statute book. I know what is going to happen. In 40 years' time when some public servant is crucified under this legislation some honourable member will raise it in Parliament and say: 'It has been on the statute books for 40 years. It was passed in 1978. It was a very intelligent Parliament that year. That Parliament must have known what was right'. Any honourable member who genuinely believes that the power of the Executive should be restricted or who believes in the rights of individuals should stand firm and say that this proposed new section 57 ( 1) has within it an incentive for poison pen letters, tittle tattle, hearsay and backstabbing attacks on members of the Public Service. 
I thought that all members of this Parliament supported the integrity of the Public Service. We want it to be apolitical. Frankly, if I were a First Division officer in a controversial department, if I had to argue against a Minister or give advice to a Minister on options that the Minister did not like, would I be prepared to do it knowing that a midnight telephone call could give the Minister the authority to suspend me without pay for weeks with no statutory right to receive that pay when I am eventually acquitted? 
I again appeal to the Minister to think again. As in the case of the previous amendment, I will not detain the House by replying to the Minister. This provision is un-British. It is contrary to the law as I understand it. It is contrary to what I consider to be a fair go that public servants in this country are to be exposed to these sorts of provisions we are about to pass. Although I accept the House's decision on my earlier amendment, I hope the House might be prepared to accept this amendment. It matters not one whit to me,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the peak councils have said this legislation is all right. There are lawyers on the peak councils. They must have forgotten every principle of first year law if they agreed to this. 
-That is probably the explanation. They overlooked this. They probably want this Bill. After seven years I guess anybody gets impatient. They probably said: 'We are going to have it, warts and all '. Before resuming my seat I make the prediction that we will see the day when this clause in this legislation is denounced by a Labor parliament as an enactment which opened the way for leading public servants in this country to be rendered victims of ministerial retribution. I do not want that and I do not believe that members in this chamber want it either. 
-At the outset I must express my disappointment that once again from the prophet of doom, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  we have seen such an uninspiring performance. He showed almost as much life and enthusiasm for his task as a night watchman at the city morgue. I wonder why it is that so many members of the Australian Labor Party have become professional pessimists. These doomsday doctrinaire socialists are never content unless they are spreading gloom, doom and destruction. I could not follow the honourable member's logic and I could not follow his reasoning.  His  figures seemed to me as though they could have come from Tattslotto or third or fourth hand. Quite frankly, his speech sounded as though it had been written by Bill Hartley and, to make the point even stronger, was four months out of date. 
The honourable member stood in this House and mouthed suggestions that the States are not getting good treatment. Let me tell him that the treatment Tasmania has received from this Government is the best treatment it has ever received in the history of the Commonwealth. I remind the honourable member that in its last year the Government of which he was a supporter, in the Hayden horror Budget, doled out to Tasmania a mere $156m. In 1976, the first year of the new federalism policy, that figure was increased to $ 186.29m by the Fraser Government. In 1977-78, in the second Lynch Budget, the figure rocketed to $2 14. 1 5m. This year it has reached a record $240m. For the benefit of the honourable member for Gellibrand, this financial year Tasmania will be receiving from Canberra a record $50 1.894m which, on a per capita basis, works out at about $1,100 for every man, woman and child in Tasmania. That compares with about $650 per head of population in New South Wales and about $700 per head of population in the honourable member's State of Victoria. If the honourable member believes that he can stand in this Parliament and tell the people of Tasmania that they have not had a good deal from the present Government, I suggest he should obtain some of the free psychiatric advice which is readily available from Medibank. 
I welcome this Bill because it represents the continuation of a program which was instituted by a Liberal-Country Party Government back in 1970; a program, the prime purpose of which was to relieve the payment of debts charges by the States, to give the States greater autonomy in how they spend the money and to relieve the very heavy interest burden which previously had been imposed on them. 
As a former member of the Tasmanian Parliament, as a confirmed States righter and as a committed federalist, I welcome this legislation. I commend the Government for the support it has given to the commitment it gave in 1975 to restore federalism to this country. Anybody who lived in a small State between 1972 and 1975 knows exactly what effect it had in our areas when we were incessantly pestered, hindered and fettered by Whitlam centralism and Whitlam socialism, when every 'i' had to be dotted and every 't' had to be crossed, and when the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  presided over any expenditure on roads and bridges in excess of $500. There was lengthy argument by correspondence as to whether a toilet could be moved at a railway station. This was the sort of nonsense we had to put up with. The States became colonies of Canberra. Not only were the States in a position of not having a free say as to how they would obtain their money, but also they were told how to spend every cent which came to them from Canberra. It is this sort of legislation that I am quite surprised the Whitlam Government did not take off the statute books. I believe it would have tried to take it off the statute books had it not been for the fact that its attempt would not have passed the Senate. 
This legislation must be opposed by the honourable member for Gellibrand and members of the Labor Party because it cuts across everything they want to do. It gives capital grants to the States with no strings attached. It reduces the States' debt charges which gives them the ability to get stronger. It gives the States the right to make the decisions which ought to be made in the States. As my colleague, the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  has said many times, decisions for Tasmania should be made in Tasmania by Tasmanians, not by some ivory towered bureaucrat in Canberra and not by the centralist socialists on the other side of the chamber. 
-The honourable member for Robertson can make as much noise as he likes. People do not listen to him in Tasmania any more. The proof of the pudding is in the eating because if they listened in Tasmania to the honourable member for Robertson and the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  they might have a couple of seats down there but they will be on a zero total - 
-The honourable member for Blaxland said that he will get my seat. I have news for him. My opponent has given up. He is running for the Senate and he will knock off  Senator Wriedt  for the No. 1 position on the Labor Party ticket. The former honourable member for Denison has given up. Perhaps the honourable member for Blaxland might like to come down and have a bit of a go in my territory. If he wants to make a hero of himself in Tasmania, perhaps he should come down and have a crack at the electorate of Franklin. I will not be distracted by honourable members opposite. I am just putting it on record that they hate this legislation because it is giving back to the States the powers that were constitutionally given to them and which the Labor Government tried to take away. 
-They can try as hard as they like. It is most important that we should note that the purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment of capital grants totalling $477m to the States for this financial year. I want to make a comment about that in view of some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Gellibrand. Apart from the fact that his speech was four months out of date, and, as I said, sounded as though it had been written by Bill Hartley, he was completely off the track when he said that there had been a cut so far as Tasmania was concerned. I take the trouble to inform the House now that on the question of loan funds, in 1978-79 Tasmania got the biggest increase of any State. Obviously, honourable members opposite do not know these facts. Let me tell them that Tasmania got an increase of 12.2 per centtwice the 6 per cent inflation figure referred to by the honourable member for Gellibrand. I suppose he thinks that Tasmanians are so dimwitted that if one gave them twice the inflation rate one could then turn around and try to persuade them that there had been a cut. 
In New South Wales, the increase was 9.8 per cent. The national increase was 7.9 per cent and Tasmania's increase was 12.2 per cent. So, do not go telling the people of Tasmania that they are badly off under the loan fund arrangement for this financial year. They will have the honourable member for Gellibrand certified. The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns)  knows that because he used to live in the Derwent Valley. There is a place called Lachlan Park which has now been renamed Royal Derwent. That is where they put people who go around telling other people that they are badly off when they have been given an increase which is twice the rate of inflation. I want to go into this subject in a little more detail. Tasmania got an increase of 12.2 per cent last year. But let us examine how we compared relatively with the other States. This is a very important matter because if one checks the Budget Papers one will find that in respect of loan funds, Tasmania received 7. 1 per cent as a percentage of the six State total. That is not bad for a State with a population which is only 3.5 per cent of the Commonwealth of Australia. So not only did we get the biggest increase in the Commonwealth but as - 
I do not want to make too much of this,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because the Government might take away some of it. I really mean that. Not only did we get an increase of 12.2 per cent but, taking into account the total for the six States, we received 7.1 per cent of the cake. I invite any honourable member on the other side of the chamber to tell that 3.5 per cent of the Australian population that they are getting a raw deal. 
Well, of course, I just want to say on this particular matter that  Mr Batt  came out of the Premiers' Conference screaming. Apparently he did not realise that Tasmania had received an increase of 12.2 per cent.  Mr Wran,  the Premier of New South Wales, came out with 9.8 per cent. What did  Mr Wran  have to say? He said: 'There is no point in complaining. Let us get on with the job of putting Australia back on its feet'. That is what  Mr Wran  said back in June; not the nonsense we heard from the honourable member for Gellibrand.  Mr Wran  said: 'I will take the 9.8 per cent. Let us get on with the job of putting Australia back on its feet'. That is probably why  Mr Wran  is Premier of New South Wales. The attitude of  Mr Batt-  I make it clear that I am referring to  Mr Batt-  will bring down the Labor Government in the next Tasmanian elections. I make that prediction because  Mr Batt  has not had a good word to say for the Government in Canberra which has done more for Tasmania than any other Federal government since the inauguration of the Commonwealth. 
-Before the bleater from Blaxland continues to interrupt me, I deal with what happened this week because one cannot look, as my colleague the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has pointed out, at the capital grants program and the loan fund arrangements without noting what has happened this week and looking at them as a package. The Hobart  Mercury  on Tuesday, 7 November- that is yesterday, which was Melbourne Cup daystated: 

 Mr Lowe and the Treasurer,  Mr Batt,  returned last night from the Loan Council meeting, delighted by the result. 
We got everything we asked for', said  Mr Lowe. 
He said the Loan Council decision also meant that the States, in future, would again be able to get authority to raise additional borrowings. 
And  Mr Batt  said that ultimately, employment would be stimulated as a result of the water and power projects for which Tasmania was given authority to borrow money. 
Approval has been given for Tasmania to borrow $1 10m. How will it be spent? An amount of $75m will be spent over the next five years- $ 15m of it will be spent this year- for the $404m Pieman power scheme. An amount of $15m is to be spent over five years- $3m this year- for the $ 1 8m stage 1 of the Hobart water supply augmentation scheme. We might be short of water in Hoban this year, which will be thanks to the Labor Government for sitting back and doing nothing about the problem. But at least, thanks to the Fraser Governent, Tasmania will get the money to get on with the job. Even if we have a dry summer this year we can take it in Tasmania because we know that it is Federal money which is going into that scheme and which will make it happen. A further $15m will be spent over five years- $3. 8m this year- on the north-west coast water supply and $5m will be spent on the $6. 12m North Esk Regional-Curries River water supply scheme. These things will happen in Tasmania not because of the State Labor Government - 
-We do not get any credit; the honourable member is right. These projects will get underway not because of the State Labor Government but because of the generosity of the Fraser Government. I am prepared to criticise the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Government and my colleagues when I think we do things that are mean, miserable and nasty. But I will not criticise the Government when it has been generous. An interesting situation developed following the Loan Council meeting in Melbourne on Monday. It was an historic meeting. For the first time since 1927, when the financial agreement came about, the States were given power to borrow either overseas or within Australia on their own account. I do not believe that the Tasmanian State Labor Government really thought that the Federal Government would give it the go ahead. I will tell honourable members why. The State Labor Government has been caught with its pants down. As of today it cannot even say whether it will borrow inside or outside Australia. There is a very big difference. The interest rates are different.  Mr Batt  apparently has heard about the exchange rates and he muttered something incoherent. As reported in today's Hobart  Mercury  he thought that Tasmania would borrow inside Australia so that it would not have to be bothered with exchange rates. I am staggered by this. I would have thought that the Tasmanian Government would have had its plans worked out to a nicety so that the moment the Prime Minister and the Loan Council said go, Tasmania would move off confidently. But what do we have? We have bumbling and bungling. The Tasmanian Government does not know whether it will borrow inside or outside Australia. 
-Of course. This is the point my colleagues, the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  and the honourable member for Franklin make. We never see  Mr Batt  any more. He is trying to repair the Australian Labor Party. He seems to spend all his time in a place called Queensland. It is an incredible situation. We had a national Australian Labor Party  president  before who wore two hats.  Mr Batt  appears to be wearing three hats. He has two heads, the way he is carrying on. He is spending more time in Queensland than in Tasmania. I ask honourable members to listen to this. It shows how absolutely incompetent this man is. An article in yesterday's Hobart  Mercury  states: 

 Mr Batt said he anticipated Tasmania would have no difficulty raising the $1 10m it was given authority to borrow over the next five years, and revealed that State Cabinet today - 
That was Melbourne Cup day- will discuss whether the money should be borrowed within Australia, or from overseas. 
According to a copy of today's Hobart  Mercury  the Tasmanian Government still does not know from where it will borrow. It is a vital economic decision whether one borrows inside or outside Australia. I believe that it is economic delinquency on the part of members of the Labor Government of Tasmania that they have been caught with their pants down and their economic bottoms exposed. They went to the Loan Council meeting to ask permission to borrow $1 10m but they did not have a clue from where they would borrow it. I do not breach any privilege when I say that the Prime Minister would make available- as I understand it- the expertise of the Commonwealth to help the Tasmanian Government decide whether to borrow inside or outside Australia. 
It might be smart to take it. I feel that to the outside world we appear as a bunch of backwoodsmen when we carry on in this way. Collectively, members of the State Labor Government could not raffle a duck in a country pub. If any of them passed first year mathematics I would be amazed. Although the State Labor Government knows that it has permission to borrow $ 1 10m, that it has eight years to pay it back and a rough idea of the areas in which it is to be spent, it does not have the faintest idea- nor does it appear to me to have the wherewithal- of how to go about the process of borrowing. This reminds me of the story about the artificially inseminated cow told by the former honourable member for Mackellar. I will not tell the story. The point I am making is that the State Labor Government does not actually know what has happened to it and has not the faintest idea where it is going. As a Tasmanian, I place on record in this Parliament at this time my regret that it has behaved in such an amateurish, bungling and economically incompetent way. I conclude by quoting authentic official figures to rebut some of the arguments raised by the honourable member for Gellibrand. I draw to his attention again the increase of 12.2 per cent in loan funds to Tasmania. I ask the honourable member for Gellibrand whether he thinks that Tasmania has done well when the national increase of Loan Council funding was 7.9 per cent and Tasmania received an increase of 12.2 per cent. I ask the honourable member for Gellibrand,  Mr Deputy Speaker  through you, to tell me whether he thinks Tasmania has done well or badly when, as a percentage of the sixState total, Tasmania received 7.1 per cent of the Loan Council program for a population of 3.5 per cent. I would be amazed if the honourable member could persuade me that Tasmania has had a raw deal or if he could persuade the people of Tasmania that they have been short changed. The short answer to his argument is this: If Tasmania is getting a raw deal why does the Labor Party not take Tasmania's case back to the Grants Commission which was set up to look after the smaller States? The Grants Commission was designed by a Tasmanian economist, Professor Lyndhurst Giblin. It was set up for States like Tasmania. Tasmania has had budget surpluses for three years out of four and has cut taxes. I ask the Minister to convey to the Government the congratulation of Tasmania for the treatment given to our State not only under the loan fund program but also at the Loan Council meeting last Monday. As far as I am concerned Tasmania has never had it so good and as long as this Government is prepared to pay $1,100 per annum for every man, woman and child in Tasmania it will have my full and continuing support. 
It is rare in public life for anybody to be vindicated but I believe that tonight five barrister members of the Government parties have been vindicated by the historic decision of the High Court of Australia in the case of Sankey v. Whitlam and others. Those who have already seen the judgment will note that it is in two parts. The first part relates to the question of Crown privilege and that is now concluded. The second part relates to section 86 of the Crimes Act 1914. That matter in my view is clearly sub judice and I therefore will not comment upon it. I rise tonight to place on record that I believe that the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  and I have been vindicated by the stand that we took in respect of a vital question of law in this case. That question was the matter of Crown privilege. 
I believe that the right honourable member for Lowe on this particular matter showed determination and tenacity that was above average and that the honourable member for Wentworth who was Attorney-General at the time these matters were under great discussion showed the finest integrity and acted in accordance with the highest traditions, not merely at the Bar but of Attorneys-General. I want to read some passages from the judgment of the High Court because I believe it is important that the Parliament notes that the highest court in the land has now clearly and expressly stated what the law on this matter is. I refer firstly to the judgment of the Acting Chief Justice,  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Gibbs. On page 19 of the judgment the following statement appears: 
It is in all cases the duty of the court, and not the privilege of the executive government, to decide whether a document will be produced or may be withheld. The court must decide which aspect of the public interest predominates, or in other words whether the public interest which requires that the document should not be produced outweighs the public interest that a court of justice in performing its functions should not be denied access to relevant evidence. 
I turn to the outstanding judgment of  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Stephen. I refer to a passage on page 34 of that judgment in which  His  Honour in referring to the character of the proceedings said that there was a triple significance. He stated: 
First, it makes it very likely that, for the prosecution to be successful, its evidence must include documents of a class hitherto regarded as undoubtedly the subject of Crown privilege. But, then, to accord privilege to such documents as a matter of course is to come close to conferring immunity from conviction upon those who may occupy or may have occupied high offices of State if proceeded against in relation to their conduct in those offices. Those in whom resides the power ultimately to decide whether or not to claim privilege will in fact be exercising a far more potent power: By a decision to claim privilege dismissal of the charge will be wellnigh ensured. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, this judgment is a landmark judgment because it makes it clear that it is the courts of the land which will determine questions of privilige. I say without reservation that I regret that this case amongst other things has brought about the resignation of a fine Attorney-General, the honourable member for Wentworth. I believe that tonight he stands vindicated by the High Court of Australia. Even though it may bring some discontent to some members of the Government I want to say that this decision should be taken as an indication that never again shall an executive government in Australia apply pressure to any Attorney-General and never again shall an executive government in Australia usurp the functions of the courts of the land. 
-Like the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  I contend that it is a matter of grave national concern that in the last 12 months the Australian Labor Party in the Federal Parliament has veered sharply and, I say, dangerously to the Left. This diabolical trend commenced as soon as the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  became Leader of the Opposition and has gained strength ever since. The Labor Party in philosophical terms is now to the left of 
Fremantle and virtually off the Australian political map. It is more doctrinaire socialist, more dangerous philosophically, than ever before, even including the days of the former honourable member for Lalor,  Dr Jim  Cairns. The procommunist Left has now clearly gained control of the Federal ALP. Labor is in chaos from coast to coast. In Tasmania two out of the three Senate positions went to the pro-communist Left. In Queensland a purge of would-be reformers is about to commence. In Victoria, as the honourable member for St George has said, we have seen the disgraceful, shameful and totally immoral failure of the Victorian ALP to take a stand on human rights issues - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for Denison will resume his seat. 
-. . . involving persecution of dissidents in the Soviet Union. 
-On the question of the Victorian State  POLY?- (Quorum formed).  Since the honourable member for Oxley became Leader of the Labor Party, the ALP in this country has moved closer than ever before to the Communist Party of Australia. The honourable member for Oxley personally - 
-What remark? 
-With respect, I do not know what he is referring to. He has not identified the remark. 
I do not know to what the Leader of the Opposition refers, but out of deference to you I will withdraw whatever it is he complains about. He obviously cannot take it. 
Government members- Oh! 
-I do not know what he is referring to. I am in the dilemma that I do not know what the man is referring to. I do not know what he seeks to be withdrawn. I would wish, out of the deference to you, an opportunity to be heard - 
Could I request that it be - 
-I did not say that. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, out of respect to you, I withdraw whatever it is that has offended the Leader of the Opposition. I repeat that I was not told what it was. 
I therefore do not know what it is. 
It proves that he cannot take it. 
House will come to order. It being past 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until 10.30 a.m. tomorrow. 
House adjourned at 11.7 p.m. 
-In all humility might I say that both last night and tonight honourable members listened to one of the finest and most bipartisan debates in this chamber that I have had the pleasure of hearing since I became a member of this House in 1976. 1 believe that honourable members from both sides of this House who have contributed to this debate are to be commended for their objective approach to the Asian Development Fund Bill and more importantly for their careful analysis and assessment of what Australia's contribution in financial terms under this Bill will mean to the development of those countries in the Asian area directly to our north. In introducing this legislation the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  indicated that there was a significant commitment by the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia to the Asian Development Bank and to the Asian Development Fund, both of which have been supported by Australia since their inception. 
I want to take up some points that have been made by previous speakers in this debate because I quite unashamedly wish to include in my remarks a reference to their comments so that the people who have the opportunity of reading  Hansard  will at least note what has been said by speakers from both sides of the House. At the outset I want to refer to the most valued contribution to the debate by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  At page 2858 of  Hansard  the honourable member for KingsfordSmith had this to say: 
The Asian Development Bank made its first loan 10 years ago. The Asian Development Fund was established in 1974 to provide funds to countries with a lower per capita gross national product. Both ordinary capital, that is, that provided by the Asian Development Bank, and special funds, that is, those provided by the Asian Development Fund, have been greatly increased in recent times. Ordinary capital increased in 1977 by 135 per cent-from $3,707m to $8,7 1 lm. The increase to the Fund projected by the Minister is of the same order. As I have indicated, our contribution on this occasion will be approximately $96.8m. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition then referred in some detail to the Second Asian Agricultural Survey and he was granted leave to incorporate in  Hansard,  again at page 28S8, a table which sets out the areas in which Asian Development Bank funds were distributed in 1977. My colleague the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  also referred to these percentages, and I want to refer to them again. That table reveals that of the ordinary loan funds approved a mere 17.16 per cent had been applied to agriculture and agro-industry; 21.96 per cent had been applied to industry, including development banks; 20.99 per cent had been applied to transport and communications; 10.71 per cent had been applied to water supply and urban development; 26.58 per cent had been applied to power- and there must be a message in that percentage- and 2.6 per cent had been applied to education. I note and accept the proposition put by the honourable member for Bonython. I think that both the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith and my colleague the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  did refer to the effectiveness of the Fund's loan appropriation in respect of agriculture and agro-industry. I accept the qualification made tonight by the honourable member for Bonython in his concluding remarks, but it does seem to me as a mere layman that out of a very substantial appropriation- in 1977 we were talking about ordinary loans to the Bank amounting to $US6 14.65m and special loan funds amounting to SUS27 1.8m- 17.16 per cent is an inordinately low percentage when applied to agriculture in an area which, as has been pointed out in this debate, contains no fewer than 335 million people living below the poverty line. I think that the honourable member for Berowra summed it up very well when he said that we could not hope for peace in this world with one-third rich and two-thirds in poverty. 
The fact of the matter is that while the eventual product in respect of agriculture and agroindustry may have been disappointing I do believe that we should persevere, and like the honourable member for Berowra I believe that there should be an added emphasis on this area. I am convinced that if we do not feed these people or do not give them the means to feed themselves, quite frankly we are going to fall down on the job and the aims and objectives of the Bank and of the Fund will not be achieved. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Berowra and the honourable member for Bonython referred to the Second Asian Agricultural Survey. I simply interpolate by asking why there should be a 10-year gap between surveys. The first one was in 1968; the last one in 1978- this year. It would seem to me that 10 years is too long a gap. These surveys should be carried out more frequently. If one looks at the survey, a most voluminous report, one is forced to the conclusion that in terms of achievement, notwithstanding all the goodwill in the world, the Asian Development Bank and the Asian Development Fund have not produced the dramatic and dynamic results which I have no doubt were predicted for them at the time of their inception. 
I believe that my colleague the honourable member for Berowra made a most valuable contribution to the debate and I quite unashamedly plagiarise it by reading into the  Hansard  two paragraphs of what he said last night. At page 2860 he said: 
The purpose of the Fund, as is the case in respect of the International Development Association on a global basis, is specifically to assist the poorest and least developed countries with long term credits for sound projects but to assist them on a concessional basis. That is the so-called soft aspect of the operation. It is of the greatest importance because of the massive and crushing burden of debt servicing and repayment which the poorer developing nations currently face. 
At page 286 1 he is recorded as delivering, I believe, one of the most telling statements in the entire debate. He said: 
What I would like to stress again is that the world has a considerable stake in the greater economic health of the developing countries. That was evidenced, among other things, by the place of the non-oil developing countries in particular in the recent period of massive imbalance in the international payments system. 
The honourable member for Berowra echoed the sentiments which brought me into this debate. We have a job to do. It is the right of this Parliament to ensure that that which we are appropriating tonight will be applied to the best advantage of those whom we are seeking to assist. 
As I have already said, the honourable member for Bonython once again has made a most valuable contribution. To my knowledge the honourable member has always made valuable contributions in this Parliament. He presented a table which was incorporated in  Hansard.  That table, which is entitled 'Rural Asia: Challenge and Opportunity' contains some startling revelations with respect to our nearest neighbour, Indonesia. Under the heading Definition of poverty line per capita income' we find that in 1969 all Indonesia was classified as below the poverty line. The table gives details of the rural population in poverty as a percentage of total rural population. For all Indonesia the figure was 47 per cent, for Java 62 per cent and for the other islands 22 per cent. The total population of the rural sector of Indonesia below the poverty line exceeded 1 10 million people. If that does not give some cause for thought, I do not know what will. 
Supporting, as I do, the Bills and supporting, as I do, the objectives of the Asian Development Bank and the Asian Development Fund, I wish to pose, and hopefully answer, two fundamental questions which I believe must present themselves to all honourable members regardless of party political allegiance. The first question is this: Should we as an Australian nation, a major contributor to and supporter of the Asian Development Bank and the Asian Development Fund, place a human rights tag on our commitment, which this year is worth $96.8m? I believe the answer to that question must be an emphatic yes. To do otherwise would be to support financially national administrations whose policies are directed against the recognition of basic human rights. I do not believe there is anything immoral in the point of view which I now profess. I believe it is perfectly proper that the Australian nation and, indeed, the Parliament representing the people of Australia, should bring to bear all means at our disposal to bring about an appreciation of and a respect for basic human rights in our Asian neighbours. If this is Carterian philosophy, let me say that I unashamedly embrace it. 
Secondly I pose this question: Should the Australian Parliament indicate areas which in its judgment are areas of special need for assistance by the Asian Development Bank and the Asian Development Fund. Australia is not merely a shareholder of the Asian Development Bank and the Asian Development Fund. We can claim to be a director nation and, as such, I believe we have the right to express a view for careful consideration by the Bank and the Fund. 
It will come as no surprise to honourable members that I now wish to say that in my judgment, and I believe in the judgment of the overwhelming majority of Australians, an area of need in the Asian region for assistance by the Asian Development Bank and the Asian Development Fund is the troubled and tragedy-ridden area of East Timor. I believe that quietly and calmly I can speak on this occasion collectively for the overwhelming majority of this Parliament and the overwhelming majority of the Australian population. Since 1975 we have seen no fewer than 100,000 of our fellow human beings slaughtered in a war on an island which is less than 15 minutes flying time from Darwin by military aircraft. But more tragically, over the last six months the world has come to learn that 40,000 of our fellow human beings on that island have died from starvation. We know, because it has been authenticated, that many people have died from starvation because of the use of napalm and defoliants on crops upon which the people depended for their survival. 
Barely three months ago diplomatic representatives of eight Western nations were invited into East Timor and saw with their own eyes and heard with their own ears of the deaths of 40,000 East Timorese from starvation and from disease. The Press of Australia, which has expressed mixed views about the Timor question, came out very strongly on this occasion. I would like to quote from an article which appeared in the  Australian  of 12 September 1978. Under the editorial headline 'Helping neighbours in dire need', it stated: 
Australia has a clear and urgent task to perform in Timor: to give immediate aid in the form of food, clothing, medical supplies and whatever else is needed by those many unfortunate Timorese who, according to reports, are hungry and destitute. This assistance must be given quickly, with no strings attached and no debate. They are our neighbours and they are in need. That is all we need to know at this stage. 
The eminent journalist Douglas Wilkie under the headline 'Tens of thousands of Timorese have been starved into submission by the Indonesians' had this to say: 
Australia's ignoble spectator role in the Timor tragedy on its doorstep is ending as it began. 
In the beginning, a shabby evasion of the responsibilities which go into the making of a creditable foreign policy. 
Now, as the corpses rot and the living cry for help, a timid shying away by Canberra from the sort of gesture by which Australia could make some amends for its military weakness and gutless diplomacy. 
Such a gesture would require us to prove that our humanitarian principles are not propaganda cant- but something to be asserted determinedly, promptly and without cringe to protocol'. Tens of thousands of Timorese have been starved into submission by the Indonesians. 
I go a little further and quote one sentence from an article which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  of 13 September. I need to quote only one sentence. It states: 
Perhaps as many as 50,000 others have died, many of them from disease or starvation. 
I am not talking about the war. I am talking about those who have died as a result of starvation following the defoliation of their crops. I am talking about the 50,000 human beings dying less than 1 5 minutes flying time from Darwin. 
I turn to a report which appeared in the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  of 18 September 1978. The report was written by Alan Gill, who was the first foreign news man to enter Remexio, which had previously been one of the main headquarters of the East Timor independence movement. This is what he had to say about the camp at Remexio and the refugees he saw there: 
A man wearing a new T-shirt walked away from the Red Cross truck holding an Indonesian flag and a pair of brilliant red shorts. 
There were thousands of the red and white flags with nearly everyone holding one and hundreds more lining the track. 
Children lining the track are singing 'Indonesia raya'- the national anthem- as we walked back to the helicopter. Their sad-faced demonstration of loyalty obviously had been well rehearsed. 
I do not want to live in the past. I want to look to the present and to the future. I want to see Australia stand up and do something about this important question. Seventy-six members of this Parliament- and there could have been morefrom both sides of this House and from both sides of the Senate, signed a petition calling for the immediate admission into East Timor of the International Red Cross, or the United Nations or the Australian Red Cross, to do something about the death, the genocide, the starvation, the cruelty and the basic human depravity which is occurring on the doorstep of this nation. It does us no credit when we go around on Anzac Day and we hear of Timorese who said that they stuck by us in World War II when we have not stuck by them in 1 978. 
I appeal to the Asian Development Bank, I appeal to the Asian Development Fund, to ensure that some of the aid Australia is providing is made available for relief of the great human misery and distress in East Timor. If I had my way, I would say $ 100m should be appropriated tomorrow. The total budget for East Timor from the Indonesian Government at the moment is $20m. One hundred million dollars is chickenfeed. It is a minute portion of our Australian Budget. I am not talking about refugee reunion. I admire and respect the sincerity of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr Mackellar)  for his concern on this matter, and that will be discussed at a later time. But on the basis of ordinary humanity I do now appeal to the Asian Development Bank and the Asian Development Fund to recognise that on Australia's doorstep there is a situation in East Timor crying out for help. We as a nation will be judged harshly by history if we do not respond firmly and effectively to their cri de coeur 
-Last night I was interrupted when commenting about what has happened to the Australian Labor Party since the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  became the Leader. I wish now- in fact it is my painful task at this point of time to comment about the honourable member for Oxley - 
It is now my painful task to comment on the performance of the honourable member for Oxley since becoming the Leader of the Opposition, but before I say any more let me say that I do not intend to commit nor will I commit any breach of Standing Order 76. I do not wish to indulge myself in any persecution of the Leader of the Opposition but simply to give an objective assessment. It is now common knowledge within this Parliament that the Leader of the Opposition personally has been a bitter disappointment to his strongest supporters of only 12 months ago. In fact, invective, spleen, spite and personal vendetta have become the hallmark of his term as leader. Persecution of individuals rather than proclaiming and pronouncing principles is now his trade mark. 
Whingeing, whining, carping, petifogging peccadillos have replaced constructive criticism and sound policy formation. Glaring errors of fact and misdescription of events, places, people and statistics are now par for the course in the twisted deluge of hate of the Leader of the Opposition. The repertoire of highpitched whining, predicting economic gloom, doom and devastation have earned him the nicknames right across Australia of 'Bellyache Bill' and ' Whingeing Willie '. 
I withdraw. Why does the Leader of the Opposition pursue abnormal - 
-Why is the Leader of the Opposition prepared to use and abuse parliamentary privilege to personally scarify his opponents and in the process seriously damage the good name and standing of the parliamentary institution? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to reports following a visit to Melbourne by Soviet Olympic Games officials from Moscow that Australians proposing to attend the 1980 Games will (a) only be permitted to remain in Moscow for one week of the Games, ( b ) then be taken on a tour of factories for the balance of their visit and (c) only be entitled to tickets for three sessions of the Games which will be selected for the visitor by the Russian authorities. 
If so, will he have these matters fully checked out so that Australians will know exactly what to expect if they make the trip to Moscow in 1 980. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. I notice in a publication entitled  Pickering's Playmates  that today is the Minister's birthday. Does the enhanced new look of the Minister for Defence as advertised in the 1979 Pickering calendar herald a new era for the defence forces? Can they, as shown by the example set by the Minister, expect newer, bigger and better equipment? 
-In recent months mankind right around the world has strongly and vociferously condemned the systematic persecution of civil rights dissidents in the Soviet Union. The mock trials of Orlov, Scharansky, Ginsberg and the Baltic dissident Petkus besmirched the name of justice in the eyes of all right-thinking men and women in all corners of the globe. It was no surprise that the strong voices of protest echoed from every conceivable sector of the political spectrum. In the United Kingdom and the United States voices of conservatism mingled with the loud cries of protest of every single Communist Party in Western Europe. There were spontaneous calls for the removal from Moscow of the 1980 Olympic Games. There were calls for the boycott of the 1980 Olympic Games unless the Russians were prepared to recognise and respect basic human rights. Australia's Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  I believe to the pride of all Australians, was devastatingly trenchant in his denunciation of brutal violations of human rights by the Soviet state. 
I believe it to be a matter of profound regret that 1 1 November 1978 will be remembered by many Australians as a day of national shame for this country. On Remembrance Day 1978 a small section of the Australian community but an influential section of the Australian community not only chose to forget those who are fighting for basic human rights in the Soviet Union, but they callously turned their backs on those freedom fighters in the Soviet Union, the modernday martyrs of 1978. On 11 November 1978 a motion was proposed at a political forum, and I read it: 
. deplores and condemns the actions of the Soviet Government, most recently demonstrated in the trial and conviction of Orlov and Ginsberg, in denying the rights and liberties of those of its citizens who wish to exercise their democratic rights of freedom of expression and peaceful dissent. 
That motion repeated a decision made by the administrative committee of one of the two major political parties in the State of Victoria, but on Saturday, 11 November 1978, the procommunist left wing of the Victorian branch of the Australian Labor Party defeated that resolution by 142 votes to 130. What a day of shame for Australia when one of the two major political parties in the State of Victoria came out publicly and refused to condemn the Soviet Union for its treatment of civil rights dissidents. 
-There were indeed, and I will come to that. I believe that every person who has come to this country seeking freedom since World War II, from whatever nation of the world, will deplore and condemn, as will all right-thinking Australians, the disgraceful, cowardly, callous actions of the Victorian ALP in refusing to utter one squeak of protest. It is one of the most disgraceful backdowns and acts of appeasement since Munich. It is very significant to note the total silence of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in this Parliament, his total failure to condemn, his total failure to dissociate himself. What did the Press have to say about it? I will read from the Melbourne  Sun  on the Monday afterwards, Monday, 13 November, in an article headed 'Surprise rebuff on Red rights': 
The State ALP surprisingly has refused to condemn the Soviet Government over its treatment of dissidents. 
The State ALP administrative committee had decided in July it deplored and condemned the Soviet Government policy on dissidents. 
The article goes on: 
But the State ALP conference at the weekend decided against supporting the administrative committee's decision. Conference voted by 1 42 votes to 1 30 to reject it. 
Another report reveals that the vote was taken immediately after an address by the State  President  of the ALP,  Mr Clyde  Holding, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. I would have thought that in opening the conference he would have drawn attention to motions that were coming up, motions that he would like delegates to consider carefully. I do not know whether the honourable member for Melbourne Ports emphasised the importance of standing up on the question of human rights and having the ALP adopt an honourable course and support the decision of its administrative commi ttee. It has also been drawn to my attention that the State Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Wilkes,  has remained silent on this matter. Are they so frightened of the pro-communist left within their own party that they are not prepared to stand up and condemn? I say that as long as the Victorian ALP continues to act in this way there will be no need for Soviet Russia to have an embassy in Australia. These fellows will do a far better job for them. I go on record as saying that one of your delegates - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinaOrder!  It being 12.45 p.m., in accordance with Standing Order 106 the debate is interrupted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House condemns and censures the procommunist Victorian State ALP for its shameful and disgraceful abrogation of its responsibilities to uphold basic human rights by its failure to deplore the continuing persecution of dissidents within the Soviet Union. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 November 1978: 
1) Has his attention been drawn to a continuing unjust and iniquitous anomaly in Australia's income tax laws whereby clubs conducting non-animal sports are not liable to pay income tax but clubs conducting animal sports such as horse racing, trotting and greyhound raring, are liable to pay income tax. 
Has his attention also been drawn to the fact that a substantial group of Government Members of the House have formed a committee to work for the abolition of income taxation of racing, trotting and greyhound clubs. 
Will he prepare a return to be tabled in this House showing the amount paid in income tax by racing clubs throughout Australia for each of the last 10 financial years in order that an assessment may be made as to the likely favourable impact on capital development and increased employment if income taxation of racing dubs were to be 
I enter this debate with some enthusiasm. May I compliment the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  on a most thoughtful and studied contribution. I say that quite genuinely because the honourable member repeatedly comes into this House extremely well prepared and with a great amount of detail to back up his propositions. I support the Bill because, firstly, the legislation is in pursuance of and effectively honouring our 1977 Federal election policy speech commitment to provide $300m over a five-year period to assist the States with the upgrading of their urban public transport systems. Secondly, there is an added bonus for Tasmania in the amendment which is before the chamber today. 
The previous Urban Public Transport Agreement between the Commonwealth and the States, which was the agreement made by the Whitlam Government with the six States, provided for the expenditure of $ 190m of Commonwealth funds over a five-year period for urban public transport improvements up to 30 June 1978. Our 1977 Federal election policy speech commitment represented an increase in Commonwealth funding of more than 50 per cent over the amount of Commonwealth funding in the previous five-year period. That 50 per cent increase was a substantial commitment and one which I believe was applauded at that time by people on both sides of politics in the various States, those connected with urban public transport and those connected with local government. It is a substantial and a generous increase, particularly so when one recalls that fact- and one should recall it- that urban public transport is not constitutionally a Commonwealth responsibility. I make that point because I believe there is a tendency for people on both sides of the fence to overlook what is and what is not in the Constitution. It may well be that urban public transport should be a Commonwealth responsibility. I do not put that point of view. I simply say that constitutionally it is not a Commonwealth responsibility and therefore the commitment both by the previous Government to provide $190m from 1973 to 1978, and by the present Government to increase that commitment by over 50 per cent to $300m for the five-year period, is a very significant indication by the Commonwealth Government and Commonwealth governments of both political colours, of the importance of ensuring that Australia has a proper urban public transport system as we move out of the twentieth century and into the twenty-first century with all the problems which we know are around the corner, not the least of which is the energy crisis. I, and I suppose everybody else, would have liked to see an amount higher than $300m provided. But the fact of the matter is that Commonwealth Government expenditure can be increased effectively only by increasing taxes. I believe it to be the unanimous view- certainly of honourable members on this side of the House and I would hope of many honourable members on the other side of the House- that at present Australians are overtaxed We are taxed up to the eyebrows. I would not for one moment support any increase in taxation. Indeed, like the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  I was extremely disappointed at the 1.5 per cent tax surcharge which was imposed in the last Budget. 
I am gratified that only four days ago at a public dinner in Hobart which the Treasurer addressed, he reminded a questioner who asked him whether the tax surcharge would be continued, that it was a Bill for one year and that it expires on 30 June 1979. So it would be very trite to say that the amount provided in this Bill should have been doubled or trebled. The sum of $300m is substantial. The expenditure could not be increased without cutting across the basic economic policies that the Government has laid down in the Budget of 1978-79 or using the alternative, horrific as it is, of increasing taxation. I would not have a bar of that because I am totally and absolutely opposed to higher taxes. I believe that this nation is crying out for lower taxes. 
Having made those preliminary comments, I point out with some pride that as a result of this amending Bill, Tasmania will receive more in total in the five-year period than would have been the situation under the existing Act. The schedule to the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act 1978 shows that for the year commencing 1 July 1978 the appropriation for Tasmania is Sim, for 1979 it is $lm and it is the same for 1980, 1981 and 1982. Under the new arrangements which will be carried with the passage of this Bill the position improves. For the year commencing 1 July 1978, Tasmania's allocation amounts to $ lm; for the year commencing 1 July 1979 it is Sim and on 1 July 1980 the figure rises to $1.25m. On 1 July 1981 the allocation will increase to $ 1.25m and on 1 July 1982 it will be $ 1.25m. 
-My colleague, the honourable member for Batman, laughs. Let me tell him that little fish are sweet. Under this amending legislation, Tasmania will be receiving $5,625,000 instead of the $5m which was proposed in the original legislation. My colleague, the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck),  would support me when I say that the $625,000 will be wisely spent in Tasmania and we welcome the additional funds. 
This may be an appropriate time for me to pause in my remarks. I wish to turn to two urgent matters I will be able to deal with after the suspension of the sitting, namely two travesties which have occurred in Tasmania in recent years. I refer to the demise of Tasmania's urban public transport rail system and the demise, unfortunately at the behest and with the connivance of the State Government, of a ferry service which should have been the salvation of the electorates of Denison and Franklin and which should have put Hobart back on the map from the point of view of urban public transport. I leave those two matters until resumption of the sitting. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
-As I was saying before the suspension of the sitting for dinner, there is good news for Tasmania in this Bill. As a result of the re-arrangement, Tasmania is to receive an increase in the funds allocated under the 5-year program. The previous Act provided funding of $5m spread over a 5-year period, but the Bill increases that figure by nearly 15 per cent. I was delighted that officers of the Department of Transport, when in Hobart barely two weeks ago, were gratified to note the appreciation of the State Government and its officials at this increased allocation to our State. 
Notwithstanding the fact that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is now in the chamber, I intended to make at this stage of my address some remarks about him. Frankly, I am becoming a bit sick and tired of people who repeatedly seem to attack the Minister. I refer to a number of State Ministers, particularly Ministers whose only game is whinging and carping. I want to put on record my appreciation of the Minister for bringing in a 5-year program which represents a 50 per cent increase on the Whitlam 5-year program- that is 10 out of 10 for the Ministerand for an amendment which will mean more money for Tasmania. As I said earlier, little fish are sweet, but an increase of $650,000 to our State under this arrangement, bringing the total to $5,625m, is appreciated. In my judgment, the 
Minister is firm but fair, practical and pragmatic, and when people want to get stuck into him about overseas air fares and one thing and another I just look at his record as far as Tasmania is concerned. Overall, it is a good record. We have very much for which to be grateful. The Minister is always welcome in Tasmania. Unlike some other Ministers, we see him quite frequently in our State. 
I notice that we are drawing a few crabs from the other side, but honourable members opposite should check their facts. The people of Hobart are delighted with the additional money. I am sure that honourable members who come from other States will be pleased to know that the people of Hobart and Tasmania generally are grateful for the increased allocation. 
Two transport matters must be discussed in the context of this Bill because to ignore them would be to ignore a problem which has been bedevilling Australia's finest capital city. I refer, of course, to Hobart. The fact is that our city is strangling itself with its road transport problems. Unless something is done within 10 years metropolitan Hobart will have a transport crisis. What has brought about this situation? Firstly, there was the disgraceful decision of the State Labor Government, in breach of a clear electoral pledge, to close down the Hobart suburban passenger rail service. That decision was taken in direct breach of a pledge given before the 1972 State election that the Hobart passenger suburban rail service would be maintained. Within 18 months of that election the Labor Government of Tasmania closed down the service. In my judgment it was a monumental blunder, a decision which will have to be reversed. I refuse to believe that by the year 2000, when Hobart will have a population in excess of 200,000, it will be the only city of its size in the world which could organise its public transport without either a suburban rail service or, as I would point out to the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  a tram service. We made the blunder of getting rid of our trams. We had an excellent tram service. I challenge any member of this Parliament to tell me of any other city in the world with 200,000 people which does not have either a suburban rail service or tram service. The fact is that Hobart is strangling itself with its road traffic problems. If we do not look for the answers now we will have a problem, as we move into the twenty-first century, that will, frankly, ruin our city. 
The Commonwealth Government, in conjunction with the State Government, as a result of the strong representations that have been made by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck),  is proceeding to the construction of a second bridge across the Derwent River. Frankly, if it is not called the Goodluck Bridge there will be something wrong somewhere. That bridge will go from Dowsings Point to Old Beach. It is in the planning stages at the moment, but I would make the plea that the bridge when constructed have provision for a railway track linking the eastern shore with the western shore. I make that point because on the eastern shore there will be within the next decade an available travelling public numbering in excess of 60,000. 
I wish now, with the consent of the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  to refer to and have incorporated in  Hansard  the figures from the last census in relation to the Hobart statistical division. Perhaps I could refer to them briefly first. The Tasmanian Year Book for 1978 sets out the population of the Hobart statistical division. A comparison of the figures from the census of 1 966, the census of 1 97 1 and the census of 30 June 1976 will show that Hobart is growing. As at June 1976 the population of the Hobart statistical division was 162,660. 1 repeat, its population will reach 200,000 by the year 2000, and on the eastern shore there will be at least 60,000 to 80,000 potential travellers. So it is not much to ask at this point of time that when the bridge is being planned, the engineers ensure that it will be possible for a railway track to be incorporated therein. The bridge will be built as a result of the efforts of the honourable member for Franklin and the co-operation between the Federal and State governments. 
I wish to refer now to evidence given by Professor Carey to the royal commission into urban transport conducted by  His  Honour,  Mr Justice  Neasey, one of the finest judges not just in Tasmania but in Australia. The professor pointed out that by a comparatively short line, speaking in railway terms, one could virtually provide instant pollution-free- it would be electrifiedtransportation from the eastern shore into Hobart. 
I will refer to the ferries in a moment. I want to make the point that Hobart will strangle itself unless we plan for the future. It is absolutely imperative that a railway track be incorporated in the bridge and that a proper Hobart suburban passenger rail service be reintroduced. I cannot spare from criticism the 
National Railways Commission- I exclude the Minister because it was none of his doing- for selling off our railways. Honourable members can imagine the embarrassment that I as a Tasmanian felt when I picked up today's  Hobart Mercury  and saw an article which read: 
Selling, used train.  Pssstt  . . . want to buy a nice train. How about the Tasman Limited, four original carriages only, last used on July 28 when Tasmania's passenger train service became history? 
It goes on to talk about the crucifixion of Tasmania's railway system. I want to put it on the record here and now for the benefit of those who want to try and blame this Government and the Commonwealth Minister for Transport that the death warrant of Tasmanian railways was signed by the State Labor Government of Tasmania when it killed the Hobart suburban passenger rail service, when it sold the railways to the Whitlam Government. That is a contract that we could debate at very great length. Now we do not have a single government-run railway passenger service in Tasmania. That is a crying shame, a monumental stupidity and damned be those who were responsible for the decision. If we do not think about the future, if we are not prepared to consider the situation - 
More money is wasted on the Canberra bus service than ever was lost on the Hobart suburban passenger rail service. The ratio is about six to one, if the honourable member wants the figures. The Hobart suburban passenger rail service was running at a loss of $750,000 and it got the nulla nulla from your Labor colleagues in Tasmania. I would be surprised if the Canberra buses did not run at a loss m excess of $6m. The figures I have given show the comparisons. 
Tasmania is the only State without a passenger suburban rail service or a passenger rail service of any sort. Some matters are highly embarrassing. The Department of Social Security issues to pensioners in Tasmania cards which entitle them to free government rail transport. That is absolutely wonderful! No service is available in Tasmania for the pensioners to travel on. Consequently, they are a little upset, and I am upset. Let me make the record quite clear. The responsibility for this monstrous dereliction of duty, this disgraceful blunder, rests with the State Labor Government. 
I now turn to ferries. After the collapse of the Tasman bridge in Hobart following the collision of the  Lake Illawarra  Hobart was split into two cities. It was that tragedy which brought into the limelight, first in local government and now in Federal Government, my colleague the honourable member for Franklin,  Mr Bruce  Goodluck, MHR. During the time that the bridge was down the people on the eastern shore had to reorganise their transport arrangements. The magnificent and glorious Derwent River provided splendid access. Ferry companies such as Sullivans Cove Ferry Co. Pty Ltd and Roche Bros, in conjunction with the Transport Commission which acquired in very strange circumstances ferries from several places, one or two of which were not exactly a success, provided a ferry service across the Derwent at that dme of crisis. It was a monumental achievement and one which will be remembered for many years. What happened? As the honourable member for Lalor pointed out before the suspension of the sitting for dinner, the moment the bridge was restored people got back into their wretched motor cars and the city of Hobart, which was a quiet, tranquil and placid sort of place while the bridge was down, was absolutely invaded almost overnight by that monster the motor car. 
People in Hobart, the smallest and most beautiful capital city in Australia, have trouble parking. It now takes 10 to 15 minutes to travel two or three blocks. Pollution now exists in the area; it was not present before. This madness must be brought to a halt. Whilst I cannot put it in such an articulate manner as the honourable member for Lalor, let me say that we have somehow somewhere got to orient people towards public transport. For my own part I unashamedly say that when and where possible I will use public transport in preference to the use of my own motor vehicle. 
Indeed, I do, and I do a fanbit of walking which is the cheapest form of public transport and which is not bad for one's health either. 
I have only one minute left. The money made available will be spent with no strings attached from Canberra because this Government does not stand over State governments. I remember being told by Victorian members of parliament that they had to get leave from  Mr Charles  Jones, the then Minister for Transport, to move a toilet on a railway station 50 yards. Before the toilet could be moved a letter of approval had to be obtained. When the money is spent - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! Before the honourable member's time expires I remind him that he foreshadowed his intention to seek leave for the incorporation of a document. If he intends to proceed I suggest he do so before his time expires. 
-I will do so straight away. I seek leave, with the consent of the Opposition, to render a statistical record of the population of the city of Hobart. The incorporation has been consented to by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris). 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="113131197902203_47_2.jpg"></graphic>

-Perhaps the honourable member will be prepared also to consent to the incorporation of this extraordinary article concerning the selling of the trains. 
-The honourable member is not prepared to do so. I cannot expect two favours from him in the one day. I make a final plea: I hope the money is spent wisely. I hope that the Government in Tasmania does not repeat the blunders it made in killing the railway service, in dismantling the ferry terminals and selling off the ferry pontoons. I hope that the people of Tasmania and in particular the people of Hobart get value for every single dollar which the Commonwealth Government, through its enlightened policies, will make available to them over the next five years. 
Is the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs aware of the dramatic success of the Tasmanian devised Commonwealth Employment Service Project 'Job Search 1979' and the fact that with three days still to go the target of 1,979 new job notifications has already been well and truly passed? Has the Minister personally seen the scheme in operation? In view of its potential on its own to reduce Tasmania's unemployment by up to 15 per cent could it and other similar schemes in other States be repeated and expanded? 

 -Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Young)  negatived: 
That the question be now put. 
It will take only a few minutes for me to put clearly and quite unequivocally my position with respect to this motion. It was somewhat amusing to hear the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  and other Labor members talking about the lack of fortitude on the part of members on this side of the House as far as crossing the floor was concerned. I invite honourable members opposite to cast their minds back to the last time that a member of the Australian Labor Party crossed the floor of this House. 
Before stating my position, I must condemn, censure and castigate the Labor Party for its cynical, hypocritical and totally deceitful approach to this motion and its deliberate and malicious attempts to denegrate and to revile my colleague the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck). 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 17 November 1978: 
In view of the Commonwealth Government's active involvement in the 150th anniversary celebrations in Western Australia in 1979, has the Tasmanian Government Officially informed the Commonwealth Government that 2 1 February 1979 will be the 175th anniversary of the settlement of Hoban by Lieutenant Colonel David Collins in 1804. 
If the Tasmanian Government has not officially informed the Commonwealth Government, will he take the matter up with the Tasmanian Premier in order that the Commonwealth Government may participate in the festive celebrations in February 1979. 
It has become almost traditional in this Parliament that tributes to great Australians are paid only when they are either dead or retired from their duty. Tonight I briefly pay a tribute to a great Australian who is very much alive and who holds a most important office in the Commonwealth. I refer to Australia's Director-General of Security and the head of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation.  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Albert Edward Woodward. I refer to him because, due to the machinery and the process of government, I have had the opportunity of seeing  His  Honour in company with colleagues on the Government benches over the last two weeks in a situation which has given me an ideal opportunity to make an assessment of this man. All honourable members in this House will know that  His  Honour came to the office that he now holds as the result of a recommended appointment by the previous Government, the Whitlam 
Government, which appointment was approved entirely by the then Opposition which is now the present Government. 

 His Honour is the son of the late LieutenantGeneral  Sir Eric  Woodward. He was admitted to the Bar in the State of Victoria in 195 1, became a judge in 1972 and was appointed Australia's Director-General of Security in 1976. 1 am more convinced than ever before, after observing the man at close quarters following two intensive meetings involving a deliberation in excess of six hours, that in that office he combines a judicial appreciation of the rule of law under a parliamentary democracy, together with an understanding of the rights of the individual Australian and of the necessity to ensure the national security of Australia. He brings to that office a judgment, a frankness, a candour and a patent integrity which in my judgment are exceptional. But above all his patriotic determination to ensure and protect the national security of the Commonwealth sets an example which I believe many who wish to emulate him could follow to great advantage. 
It is not coincidental that I speak on this matter tonight. I suppose that all honourable members would be aware that for some time this Government- and no doubt the previous Government- has considered the role and the specific functions of ASIO. Whatever might come before the Parliament in the weeks ahead, I believe I would be failing in my duty if I did not place on record, before the debate on ASIO starts, the admiration, in which I hold this man. I believe that many members on both sides of this Parliament in both Houses feel similarly. I hope that  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Woodward will be available for many years to serve this nation as Director-General of Security. I met the man only as recently as two weeks ago but having had the opportunity to cross-examine him and to hear him answer a wide range of questions directed to the national security of Australia, he is in my judgment a fine Australian and a most worthy trustee of the nation 's security. 
I depart from what I intended to say simply to make the comment that once again we have seen an exhibition from the Opposition which brings no credit on it or on this Parliament. Any magistrate, any justice of the peace, upon hearing the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  would ask at the end of the honourable member's diatribe: 'What is your allegation? You have covered yourself under parliamentary privilege and have indulged in a scurrulous, unsubstantiated, portmanteau smear. What is your allegation?' As the honourable member runs from the chamber to talk to the Press, I ask him: What is his allegation? 
Last year I went on record, in giving evidence to the Bowen inquiry, indicating my attitude with respect to the attacks which were made upon the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in relation to family trusts. I just ask all honourable members to contemplate what sort of service has been done to the Parliament of this country by that performance a few minutes ago. As I dissociated myself from the attacks on the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, so I dissociate myself entirely from the attacks which have just come from the honourable member for Batman.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  is it not a sad state of affairs when one prepares a speech which endeavours to bring a little bit of light and happiness into this Parliament and one has to spend the first three minutes of one's speech to answer a rabbit such as the one who just spoke? 
My grievance is that, whilst Australia is the greatest place in the world in which to live, it is a country in which far too few Australians realise and recognise that basic fact. We are the most splendidly gifted people and ours is the most richly endowed country in the world. We are the envy of millions of our fellow human beings on this earth. We have the resources. We have the means at our fingertips. All we need is the will to get up and to go. Australia on the move, Australia reaching its full potential, an Australia striding confidently through the 1980s and the 1990s on to the 21st century is my dream, my vision, and should be the aspiration of all Australians. Notwithstanding the filth that has just occurred in this place, let us as Australians in this forum, which is used all too frequently for petty politics, for once express our concern for the future of this great nation. Let us count our blessings and take stock of our achievements. Let us resolve to get the show well and truly on the road with an Australia on the move and an Australia with real determination to prosper and to succeed. 
It is indisputable that we have the most beautiful country in the world. We are the most richly endowed with minerals and other natural wealth. In the panoply of the Western democracies, we are, I suggest, one of the most politically stable and well balanced of nations, notwithstanding the rabbits on the other side. We have a parliamentary democracy which recognises and preserves the rule of the law. Above all, the rights and freedoms of the Australian people are the most jealously guarded in the Western world and are the envy of many nations both near to and far from our shores. Despite all the predictions of gloom, doom and despair from the Luddite, flat earth and doctrinaire socialists who sit opposite, this nation in world terms is economically strong today and will be even stronger tomorrow. 
Why are Australians their own worst enemies and this nation's worst enemies? Why have we become a nation which has earned us the title of the 'world's greatest knockers'? Why does this capacity for self denigration and knocking permeate our entire community, from the highest levels of government to the sporting field? We knock, we criticise, we whinge and we moan. The bleatings of a Bellyache Bill or a Whinging Willie are reminiscent of Banjo Paterson 's classic poem  Riders in the Stand,  as are the multitudes who scream from their pockets and knock and condemn such a superb horseman as Roy Higgins if he gets beaten on the hot favourite in the last race at Flemington. Let us for once count our blessings. We are the great Australian family. We have a fine population enriched and enhanced by millions who have chosen to adopt Australia as their native land. In particular I refer to my colleague and friend the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns)  who typifies the quality of those who have come to this land and made it their adopted native land. 
Despite the obvious social evil of unemployment, an evil recognised by and of great concern to this Government, we are still seeing encouraging economic indicators which I want to refer to briefly. Inflation in this country has been halved since March 1975. Under Labor it peaked at 1 7.5 per cent. The inflation rate last year was 7.8 per cent. Production has strengthened in the December quarter and the predictions are that it will continue to strengthen this year. Retail sales were up in December to the surprise and delight of the retail industry in Australia, the community as a whole and the Government. Private nondwelling investment was up by 6 per cent last year. These are indicators. Private dwelling approvals were up by 13 per cent in the December quarter. There is a massive rural recovery. If honourable members do not believe it they should go into the country areas and they will see. 
Let me just mention some more indicators. Wheat production has doubled. World beef prices increased strongly last year and will continue to increase. Beef exports will rise again in 1979. Proceeds from wool sales were up by 9 per cent for 1978-79. My friend and colleague the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  knows that we had a good fruit season last year and that we are going to have an even better one this year. Grain crops and sales have increased. Sheep and lamb slaughterings are up by 18 per cent. These indicators are matters of substance and you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  being a man of the land, will know the truth of what I say. All this is summed up by the fact that farm incomes this financial year are expected to rise by 80 per cent on the 1977-78 levels. Whilst conceding that the 1977-78 levels were a low base, an 80 per cent increase can be described only as magnificent; and not just the weather but also the policies of this Government should be given credit for that achievement. The Australian people ought to know and ought to be delighted by the fact that investment in mining and manufacturing has increased by 33 per cent in the calendar year of 1978. 1 just pause to say in country terms that on those indicators alone one could not say that things are crook in Tallarook. 
Whilst 7 per cent unemployment is too high and must be reduced, let us thank God that 93 per cent of the nation's work force is in employment and that overtime has risen each month for the past seven months and now is at its highest level since 1974. Employment has risen in each of the five months to November 1978, for the first time in five years. If I can take my argument a little further, in the manufacturing sector employment has increased, again for the first time in five years. Profits are up. It does not please the Labor Party, but the fact is that profits are up and productivity is up. Exports are up by 17 per cent for the three months period to January 1 979 and manufacturing exports are up by 29 per cent in the December quarter compared with the same period in 1977. 
Whilst this is good news, it can be better. Whilst Australia must get up and go, our home State of Tasmania must also get up and go. I endorse what has become known in our State as the Benjamin formula for the economic recovery of this nation. We must have lower interest rates and lower taxation. The entire income tax system must be reassessed. It is wrong. The harder we work, the harder we are hit. There are too many disincentives to increased effort and productivity. 
This year our Government is saving the taxpayers of Australia $3,000m that they would have had to pay if the Whitlam tax scales had continued to apply, and our Government is still committed to even further tax reductions. By a reduction of income tax and a reduction of interest rates this country will get back on its feet. 
I want to conclude with a plea, through the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  who is at the table, to the Commonwealth Department of Education to apply its mind to the increasing use of offensive language in the newspapers of Australia. I am very concerned that the thousands of young people in Australia who read newspapers read offensive words in those newspapers. Their education will be grievously affected. I refer to page 7 of today's  Australian  as an example of the sort of thing that is concerning me. Is it right for your children and mine to read offensive words? I refer to these words in the  Australian: 
If I can find any way to get that bastard Hayden, and have him replaced by you as leader, I will use it. 
Even if the statement is true, it should not have been published in that form. It is completely and absolutely improper for the media of Australia to refer to the fact that  Mr Hayden  is a bastard. He may well be, but it is not right for thousands and thousands of young Australians who pick up that newspaper to read on page 7 of today's  Australian: 
If I can find any way to get that bastard Hayden, and have him replaced by you as leader, I will use it. 
-I ask the Minister to take this matter up with the Press Council. 
It should not be in the newspaper. 
-We have just heard an incredible outburst from the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  I understand that earlier in his career he worked in a bank. I say with respect that on his performance here today he would be flat out holding down a job in a piggy bank. Frankly, I wonder how much of his remarks was relevant and how much he used this Bill not for the purpose of an intelligent debate but to make an underhand attack on persons not in the chamber, in respect of whom he has the Standing Orders to enable him to take action by means of a substantive motion. 
I refer you to page 30 of the  Parliamentary Handbook  where, when dealing with the parliamentary career of the honourable member for Chifley,  Mr John  Lindsay Armitage, it is revealed that he was on the administrative staff of the Reserve Bank of Australia prior to 1961. 1 must say on his performance today that he has probably forgotten everything he learnt in that position, because he has used this debate not for the purpose of debating the Bill on the merits of the Bill but for other purposes. Once again the honourable member for Chifley and his colleagues on the other side of the House, with respect, have failed to appreciate the basic legal and fundamental points involved in the legislation before the chamber. 
They cannot understand the difference between what is a well known concept to lawyers and accountants in the business world- on the one hand tax avoidance and on the other hand tax evasion. Not simply today but on previous occasions, they have repeatedly branded as criminals those who, protected by the law for many centuries, have legally used the provisions of the law for what is known as tax avoidance. It is even incredible, bearing in mind their political philosphy, that they fail to recognise that in the United Kingdom, which at least for the time being, has a Labour Government, the distinction is well recognised. For the record I refer to the basic point so that people know when they listen to the debate or read  Hansard  that there were some members, at least on this side of the chamber, who understood what the question was all about. I refer to the final report of the Royal Commission on the Taxation of Profits and Income published in England in 1955. Dealing with the difference between tax avoidance on the one hand and tax evasion on the other the report states: 
The latter - 
That is tax evasion- 
. denotes all those activities which are responsible for a person not paying the tax that the existing law charges upon his income. Ex hypothosi he is in the wrong, although his wrongdoing may range from the making of a deliberately fraudulent return to a mere failure to make his return or to pay his tax at the proper time. By tax avoidance, on the other land is understood some act by which a person so arranges his affairs that he is liable to pay less tax than he would have paid but for the arrangement. Thus the situation which he brings about is one in which he is legally in the right, except so far as some special rule may be introduced that puts him in the wrong. 
I refer also to the speech in the House of Lords concerning the case of the Duke of Westminster v. Inland Revenue Commissioners, reported in 1936 appeal cases at page 19. Lord Tomlin made this statement and it is still the law in England, Australia and in most countries in the Western world. He said: 
Every man is entitled if he can to order his affairs so that the tax attaching under the appropriate Acts is less than it otherwise would be. If he succeeds in ordering them so as to secure this result, then however unappreciative the Commissioners of Inland Revenue or his fellow taxpayers may be of his ingenuity, he cannot be compelled to pay an increased tax. 
Having referred specifically to the definitions, I say that I, and I believe other members on this side of the House, wish to voice our strong disapproval of members of the Australian Labor Party for casting a slur over thousands and thousands of taxpayers in this country who legitimately, after obtaining advice or indeed on their own initiative, to quote Lord Tomlin 'order their affairs so that the tax attaching under the appropriate Acts is less than it otherwise would be'. Are honourable members opposite going to tell me that if the speed limit- I am sorry to talk in miles per hour- is 30 miles per hour people ought to be pinned who drive at 29, 28 or 27 miles per hour? That was the gist of the speech of the honourable member for Chifley. Whether he intended it or not, he cast a slur over the entire accountancy profession, the entire income tax profession, the legal profession and the business community of Australia. I am sick and tired of people such as the honourable member for Chifley casting that smear in this chamber. 
This Bill deals with tax evasion, in the main. I support it. Indeed, the very example given by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on page 3 of his second reading speech is a classic example of tax evasion by means of pre-payment of rent and interest. I do not believe that there would be an honourable member in this chamber who would be prepared to stand up to support that sort of activity so clearly defined by the Treasurer on page 3. The spirit of the Bill has my support. The detail of the Bill has been a matter of some discussion. Fortunately in this Parliament and in the Government parties, honourable members who are concerned whether a result may be achieved by the passage of the legislation which might not be the result which was intended, have the opportunity in the party room or in the Parliament to raise these questions. There has been no intelligent debate on the questions of detail, with the greatest respect, from the other side of the chamber. Matters of detail have been raised which ought to be considered in this debate and may even need to be considered more minutely in some later proceedings. 
I believe that most people interested in tax law would have read with some interest not only on the articles in the  Australian Financial Review  but also a letter to that newspaper from  Mr A.  P. Webb, Q.C. and  Dr I.  C. F. Spry, published on 20 February. Both  Mr Webb  and  Dr Spry  raised some fundamental questions which I hope the Treasurer, at the conclusion of the debate before the Bill passes from this chamber to another place, may be prepared to make some comment upon. I shall read three or four passages from the letter and then develop some of the matters which come to my mind which I believe are matters of substance which call for some comment, and indeed answers. In their letter  Mr Webb,  Q.C. and  Dr Spry  state: 
Although it is appropriate that  the  Government should legislate in order to prevent loss of revenue through reliance by taxpayers upon arrangements depending upon weaknesses or defects in the Income Tax Assessment Act, amendments that are made should not be such as to obstruct and inhibit ordinary business transactions, as well as providing undue uncertainty and penalising persons acting in accordance with the law. 
However, the provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 5) 1978 - 
The one we are debating: 
. give considerable ground for concern because they are such that where almost any large commercial venture is entered into the deductibility of ordinary expenses will be put into doubt. 
First, the definition of 'tax avoidance agreement' in section  82KH  is so broad that it may arguably apply in a large number of ordinary commercial transactions, the tax implications of which are merely incidental. 
Further section 82KJ is both broad and uncertain in its operation, and in particular it is calculated to operate by denying an entire deduction in certain circumstances where only a small benefit is obtained by the taxpayer or an associate, even although that benefit forms part of the taxpayer's assessable income, for example. 
The provision goes far beyond any need to remedy weaknesses in the Act and is likely-to give rise to substantial commercial uncertainty and hesitation. Any such provision should be clearly limited so that the relevant deduction is not disallowed in toto but only to the extent of any inadequacy. 
Secondly, although the Treasurer has indicated that this legislation is intended to effect his proposals announced on April 19, - 
That is, 1978:  . . it goes far beyond those proposals. 
The letter concludes by stating: 
In its present form - 
That is, the Bill: it casts doubts on the deductibility of expenses in a large number of situations and would, if enacted, inhibit commercial activity. 
I say in all humility that I am in no position to make a final definitive judgment on the views expressed by  Mr Webb  and  Dr Spry.  But  Mr Webb  and  Dr Spry  are men of such eminence and standing that the comments they made not only should be the subject of discussion and debate but also indeed should be pursued to ascertain whether they are correct. If the comments are correct a result would be obtained by the passage of this legislation which would be contrary to the wishes of this Government. We on this side of the House, contrary to those on the other side of the House, believe in private enterprise. We believe in a situation in which there is certainty of the law as to taxation matters. We believe that it is wrong to legislate, as was once said, to use a sledge hammer to crack a peanut if that is going to be the end result. I do not present myself as one of those who say that is going to be the end result, but I do say there are matters of concern. 
Indeed. I thank my friend, the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack),  for his interjection. The point that I make is that there are more intelligent people than myself in the chamber who are more qualified than myself and who can perhaps answer these queries. I say this not by way of getting out from under before the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  speaks, but perhaps he has looked at these provisions and considered the matters raised by  Mr Webb  and  Dr Spry.  He has not yet spoken in the debate. The comments I made about the previous speakers do not apply to him. 
Having made that position quite clear, I say clearly and unequivocally that tax evasion must be stamped out because every dollar of tax evaded is an extra dollar which has to be raised from the non-evaders, if I might use that expression. I must say that I have sympathy for the argument, which I hear repeatedly in the community, that whilst some people are able to evade their tax obligations involving large amounts- which is of course illegal- the ordinary working man in the majority of cases is not in a position to avoid or evade. So we are on common ground in relation to that matter. The prepayment of rent and interest is a contrived means of evasion. It hides the real nature of the transaction, it has the nature of fraud behind it and in my view it must be stamped out. 
The matters raised by both  Mr Webb  and  Dr Spry  in relation to the very substantial penalty which follows an assessment that there has been an evasion of tax, which is illegal under this Bill, should bring home the enormity of the problems facing large corporations. Some corporations might very well find that an enormous project involving millions of dollars and the welfare and livelihood of thousands of Australians could be placed in jeopardy because if a breach of section  82KH  or section  82KJ  of the Act were discovered the entire tax deductibility would disappear. The amount of tax evaded may be comparatively small and the total tax deduction available to the corporation could be  10, 20  or  50  times greater than the amount involved. The capacity is therefore of considerable importance because if that situation developed the company might very well become bankrupt overnight. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the tax lawswhich I submit are quasi-criminal to the extent that penalties of a very substantial nature are likely to be imposed in respect of breaches- must be clear and specific. 
I can say only that I find it very difficult to understand with clarity and precision some of the drafting provisions of this Bill. What in fact is a 'benefit'? I invite the honourable member for Hawker or any other member who can clearly explain this definition to me to do so. I do not believe that in certain areas of the Act the precision that ought to be is there. I repeat that I am not an expert; this is not a field in which I have practised at any stage of my life. I did not reach such heights. But those who do practise in the area say that there is a very great need for clarity and precision because if a person offends that person must pay the penalty. The penalty could be very substantial indeed. 
It has been drawn to my attention that a mining company for example, might spend $lm developing an ore body and producing copper concentrate. It would be entitled to expect some deduction for the expenditure. It might come to an agreement with a subsidiary to market the concentrate for a fee. Unless the fee is in line with market practices it becomes part of the property passing back as it is paid to an associate. But here is the slug: The company will or could lose its entire Sim development deduction even if the fee charged was only $100. 1 understand that the Mount Newman Mining Company Pty Ltd makes payments to Amax Exploration (Australia) Inc., for marketing, to the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd for operating and to the CSR Co. Ltd for Canberra liaison. If the Australian Taxation Office ruled that the transaction came within section 82KJ of the Act, the Mount Newman Co. could lose every tax deduction to which it would otherwise be entitled particularly as the legislation is retrospective to 19 April 1978. What would the effect of that be? The effect of that might well be to bankrupt the company and put hundreds of Australians out of jobs. 
I simply use that as an example. My colleague from Western Australia who interjected earlier will know what I am talking about. The implications for major companies in Australia, should they make a mistake under this law, could be very substantial indeed. I repeat that I am not opposing the legislation. I am simply expressing the need for absolute clarity and precision. Many agreements made between companies and their employees could endanger the whole enterprise. It is critical that the precise details, the precise implications of the legislation should be clearly stated and clearly debated, if not in this House, in the Senate, if not in the Senate, before a legislation committee. It is a matter about which I believe there is some genuine concern by many people. I am not referring to tax evaders, or crooks, but to many decent members of the community who would like to have the exact details spelled out chapter and verse so that there is no risk of injustice occurring and in particular no risk of any damage being done to the economic situation of this country. I refer particularly to the area of employment where we are dealing with major employers and large corporations. 
The ordinary man in the street will probably wonder what the devil we have been talking about this afternoon. The fact is that this legislation is not going to apply to the ordinary man in the street. This Bill has little if any practical application to probably 96 per cent of the Australian population. That figure could even be 99 per cent. 
The point that the honourable member for Hawker has made is a point which I have conceded. I have made the point and I will repeat it. It is a question of concern for governments of any political colour that if there is tax evasion, which we all agree is wrong and must be stamped out, every dollar evaded has to be collected from somewhere else. The honourable member for Hawker makes the point, with which I completely agree, that the ordinary man in the street does not get into a situation of being able to engage in either tax avoidance, which is legal, because he does not get the necessary advice; or tax evasion, which is illegal. The little people in Australia would have to pay the bill for money which has been robbed from the Treasury coffers on a large scale by the tax evaders. I have no sympathy for them. 
Let us stamp out the tax evaders, but let us not blithely use a sledge hammer to crush a peanut and in the process bring into jeopardy many people who properly and decently have acted within the law and who are now to be placed in a situation of doubt which could inhibit development and which could inhibit the entire private enterprise sector of the economy. That is my plea. I know it is consistent with the Government's philosophy. I trust that when the 'Bill finally passes through Parliament it will be in such a form that the objections and queries raised by  Mr Webb,  Q.C, and  Dr Spry  and the many others who have expressed them, have been well and truly answered. I support the Bill. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to an article which appeared at page 1 of today's Hobart  Mercury  which states that Hobart will lose $3.5m worth of business per annum with the introduction of an Australian fishing access fee claimed in the article to be $35,000 for each foreign fishing vessel? Is it a fact that no access fee has yet been negotiated? Is it further a fact that the strongest representations have been made to the Minister pointing out the diabolical effect on the economy of Hobart if Japanese fishing vessels cease using the facilities of the port of Hobart? 
-From the outset let me place on record my recognition and appreciation of the outstanding manner in which the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  has handled, and continues to handle, his most vital portfolio.  His  magnificent statement entitled 'The Geo-Political Situation: A Pattern of 
Instability' is a model. It is a balanced and factual statement which would be supported, I believe, by the overwhelming majority of members of this Parliament and by the overwhelming majority of the people of this nation. It is a matter of great pride that we have a Minister for Foreign Affairs who not only checks his facts before he speaks but also has the courage of his convictions and is able to speak in a way and in a manner which is commanding increasing respect right around the world. 
Having said that I now refer specifically to the Minister's statement. I wish to refer to four very basic points in that statement before developing a second proposition about which I believe it is appropriate that somebody in this Parliament express some warning to the people of Australia about something that is happening very close to our shores. The Minister referred in his statement to the fact that recent events represented a deterioration 'in the international strategic and political environment which has serious implications for our interests'- that is, the interests of Australia- 'as well as for those of our regional and Western partners. They are of grave concern to the Government'. The second point appears later in the statement where the Minister, when discussing the Indo-China situation, stated: 
The basic situation which now exists in Indo-China is a matter of great concern and disappointment to the Government. But it is not a source of great surprise. In the foreign policy statement which I issued for the Liberal and National Country Parties three and a half years ago, in October 1975, we recognised that: 
Regionally, in the aftermath of the Vietnam war, South East Asia seems set to become a major theatre for the working out of a Sino-Soviet rivalry. 
That document went on to recognise the weight of Vietnam in that context and concluded: 
The unstable relationship between these three powers is certain to have an important effect on regional affairs in the near future. 
The third part of the Minister's statement to which I draw attention is this: 
It has been suggested in some quarters that the nature of the Pol Pot regime of Kampuchea provided some justification for Vietnam's invasion. But Vietnam did not take over Kampuchea in order to restore civil liberties and the fact that the Pol Pot regime was an evil and vicious despotism in no way affects our opposition to the methods of its removal by Vietnam. 
The fourth point follows immediately thereafter: 
The Vietnamese attack on Kampuchea was an attack by a client of the Soviet Union ona client of China. 
I hope that the people of Australia recognise the truth and validity of that statement. How does this affect Australia? I note that I will be followed in this debate by my friend and colleague the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  who takes a different view from me. I respect his view and I believe he would respect mine. I have said in this House on a number of occasions that I am concerned for the future of Australia. I am concerned because of the increasing influence of the Soviet Union in the South East Asian area. I will demonstrate in a few minutes that that influence has now taken a step very close to our shores. It is sad for me to have to say this because it represents a vindication of things that I have been saying for three years. I was saying these things when it was most unpopular for me to do so, but now more and more people are telling me that the warnings I gave are now coming to fruition. 
Before I turn to that part of my speech I draw the attention of the House to an excellent statement made by the Ambassador for Canada in the United Nations Security Council on 24 February this year. Ambassador Bill Barton made a point which I hope will be taken up by the Australian Government. I believe, even though the Australian Government has not said so, that it is a statement with which the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  would have no disagreement whatsoever. In that speech to the Security Council,  Mr Barton  emphasised that one could not look at the present violence in Indo-China independently from what has become known as the Vietnamese refugee problem. I quote him verbatim. He said:  it would be a serious mistake to concentrate only on the current outbursts of violence and ignore the other ills that have plagued this region for so long. Canada has raised its voice before to deplore the denial of human rights in parts of that region. Canada, like many other nations, and in particular the countries neighbouring that region, has been shocked by the continuing exodus of thousands of refugees who have been forced for a variety of reasons to flee their homelands. 
He went on to say: 
The peoples of the countries of Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) must be given more than ad hoc humanitarian assistance and vague reassurances. They are entitled to long-term stability and the international community would be well advised to help them to achieve it. 
It is to Canada's credit that it was the first nation in the Security Council debate to appreciate the link between the situation of violence and the refugee problem. On the basis of pure humanitarian idealism, I hope that that message gets through to quarters right round the world. 
Over the last three years I have clearly, and I believe honestly, expressed my concern in respect of incidents of military expansionism close to the shores of Australia culminating, as they did, in the tragedy of East Timor. My views were then minority views. In some areas they attracted very strong criticism. I had the distinction, if one can call it that, of being publicly branded in the 
Indonesian Press as a communist and a territorist. 
-Thank you. I am obliged to the honourable member. But I was not the only one. Other members of this Parliament from both sides of it were branded and smeared in that way. What I am about to say gives me little pleasure but it is something that has to be said by somebody in this Parliament and that is the fact that clear evidence is now coming out, and I will cite it, which frightens me because it indicates to me, and I believe to others, that Indonesia is starting to fall under the influence- I regard it as an evil influence- of Soviet Russia. I will refer to two specific matters linked with the Indo-China conflict which I believe give substance to the concern that I express. I will not seek a headline by referring to sverdlov class Russian cruisers being given to the Indonesians or any of those those things. What I will refer to are statements which have been made, one in the Press of Indonesia and two by the Foreign Minister of Indonesia in an interview. I will quote him verbatim. Lest anybody be in any doubt as to where Indonesia is standing on the question of the Indo-China conflict, I say that one can be quite certain that it is not supporting the Chinese. The indications are that it is supporting the Russians. Let me quote from the Indonesian newspaper  Merdeka  of 28 February this year. I will let honourable members be the judge as to which line Indonesia is taking in this conflict. It is certainly not the line Australia is taking. It reads: 
To wash its face from the failure in defending the ousted Cambodian Government, China now tries to launch an aggression on Vietnam. But this will only make its face dirtier. 
Lest honourable members want other comments from the Indonesian Press, I refer to an article in which the 'Chinese aggression', as it is called, against Vietnam is described as reckless, and which says that there is no justification for the invasion of Vietnam by an expansionist China. Jack Hill, the blind miner, can see why China did what it did. I believe that any country which has an aggressive neighbour on its boundaries would take action. When buildings and villages inside Chinese territories were shot, blown up, damaged and destroyed, as has been demonstrated clearly by television films and remains uncontradicted by the Vietnamese, what was China to do? Was it to sit still and, to use the Minister's words, let this client of the Soviet Union actually jeopardise its territorial boundaries? China was entitled to do what it did, and I support what it did. If honourable members want something more authoritative I think I can do no better than to quote from an interview with the Indonesian Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Dr Mochtar  Kusumaatmaja and let honourable members judge for themselves. An article by Rodney Tasker in the  Far Eastern Economic Review  of 1 5 December 1 978 reads: 
The foreign minister - 
That is,  Dr Mochtar-  also spoke about his recent trip to Hanoi, which, 'by accident' occurred at the same time that Teng was starting his ASEAN tour. He - 
That is,  Dr Mochtar-  had signed a trade agreement - 
This was in Hanoi- and made progress in negotiations to settle the issue of demarcation of mutual sea-bed boundaries. 
The article quotes  Dr Mochtar  as saying: 
What was also important was that we had very frank talks. 
That is, talks with Vietnam. He went on to say: 
In a certain sense, there is something we have in common which we recognise and which accounts for a special flavour in our relationship; that is that we both are aware of the fact that we gained our independence through armed struggle. 

 Mr Tasker says: 
The remark was significant, because it was generally assumed that Indonesia was as suspicious of Vietnam's intentions in the region of its ASEAN partners, particularly given its links with the Soviet Union, enhanced by the Moscow-Hanoi friendship treaty signed soon after Vietnamese Premier Pham Van Dong's goodwill tour around all the ASEAN countries. 

 Dr Mochtar is quoted as having said: 
I prefer not to use any term that denotes subservience of Vietnam - 
Who is kidding whom?  to any country or intimates that Vietnam is the proxy of any country. 
I remind  Dr Mochtar  that Australia says that Vietnam is the client of the Soviet Union.  Dr Mochtar  went on to say: 
I have had many conversations with their leaders, and I am aware of their pride and their fears since independence. So the fact that they have signed a treaty and have been obliged to receive aid is, I think, a result of circumstances. They have tried to obtain assistance from other sources. They have encouraged investment and trade, but not much was forthcoming. 

 Dr Mochtar then said: 
The withdrawal of Chinese aid and assistance was a heavy blow to their economy. 
That is, Vietnam 's economy. He went on to say: 
On top of that, you have natural disasters. Then there was a threat: The belligerent attitude of China. 
This is a partner of ASEAN. In this respect I quote from the Indonesian  Times.  It reads: 
ASEAN has taken basically the same line as Australia on this issue. 
But one member of ASEAN is leaning towards the Soviet Union. It gives me no pleasure to have to reveal this fact, but I do so.  Dr Mochtar  went on to say: 
From a distance, of course, armchair analysts can say that was only bluster- China has no intention of really doing what it threatens to do because it has other priorities. But if you are there, you are really next door, it is quite understandable that it creates a certain situation psychologically. And if you project it against the background of long-standing struggle against the Chinese, then you have the explanation for the (Moscow-Hanoi) treaty. 1 don't think they had much choice. 
If those are not words of approbation of the Moscow-Hanoi treaty, I do not know what are. It should concern Australians that the Foreign Minister of our nearest and largest neighbour is actually courting and encouraging a relationship with Hanoi and therefore with Moscow, and is permitting in his own country a denigration of China. If that does not indicate the way in which Indonesia is heading then I do not know what does. I stand by what our Minister said. I express the gravest concern that a client of the Soviet Union engaged in military aggression, precipitated this crisis. It grieves me that Indonesia appears to be taking the Soviet line. I ask honourable members, and the people of Australia: What is the future of our country going to be if Indonesia falls under the influence of Soviet Russia? If anyone in this chamber or outside it thinks that Australia could defend itself, I suggest he is sadly deluded and will not be thanked for his attitude. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the House overwhelmingly rejects, censures and condemns the blueprint for a socialist Australia exposed in Canberra on15 March 1979 at the National Press Club by the Leader of the Opposition; and, further, that the House expresses the opinion that any implementation of the Hayden tax proposals will inevitably lead to higher taxes, more unjust taxes, a reduction in national productivity, destruction of personal and corporate initiative and incentive, higher inflation, bigger and more authoritarian centralist government and substantially reduce employment opportunities for the workers of Australia. 
The motion will be seconded by the honourable member for St George (  Mr Neil  ). 
It is always a pleasure to follow in a debate the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  Once again, he has demonstrated a capacity to address himself to a very significant Bill, the Jurisdiction of Courts (Miscellaneous Amendments) Bill, in a fair and impartial manner. I pay tribute to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, as I have on previous occasions, for the manner in which he has approached legislation of this nature. To those people at home around Australia who are listening to the broadcast of the proceedings, this debate might sound very much like a dry lawyers' argument. The fact of the matter is that it is not. The matters raised in this Bill are matters of great concern to every citizen of this nation because they affect the basic legal rights of every man, woman and child in Australia. I can think of no more apposite phrase with which to commence my remarks than to say that any Act which changes the jurisdiction to which a person should have right of access is an important Act in the Commonwealth of 
Australia. From time to time there may well arise situations in respect of which a change of jurisdiction could seriously limit the opportunity of the ordinary citizen to have his or her right determined in a court of law. 
I must say from the outset that I support the Bill. It was a matter of regret that I was not able to speak on the principal legislation in 1976. The Jurisdiction of Courts (Miscellaneous Amendments) is consequential legislation which basically follows the pattern which was accepted in 1976. That pattern, as the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is at the table, will confirm, was basically to take away part of the jurisdiction of the High Court of Australia and to vest that jurisdiction in either the Federal Court of Australia or the State Supreme Courts. Under this consequential legislation this jurisdiction is extended to the Territory Supreme Courts. 
Accordingly, I think I would be doing less than applying myself to the matters before the House if I did not make some reference to the second reading speech of the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, who represents the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  in this House and who, of course, in his own right is a distinguished counsel from Western Australia. I want to refer to some of the matters which the Minister raised and to consider them briefly in the context of our Federal system of courts. The Minister in his second reading speech was at pains to emphasise four basic points which are to be effected by the passage of this legislation. They are: 
The reorganisation of the federal judiciary by the creation of a new federal court to replace the Federal Court of Bankruptcy and the Australian Industrial Court; 
the relief of the workload on the High Court of both appellate and original jurisdiction; 
a more significant role for the State Supreme Courts in the administration of the federal judicial power; and 
the creation of a federal appellate jurisdiction in significant areas of federal law and the provision of a court of appeal from Territory Supreme  Courts 
Those were the four basic objectives of the 1976 legislation. I think it would be fair to say that there were some people, particularly people in outlying States, who viewed the 1 976 legislation which this Bill continues, with some apprehension in that it did appear that access to the High Court of Australia could well be limited to those who had the convenience of living in Melbourne and Sydney and access to Canberra when the High Court of Australia is permanently based in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Indeed. A lot of people in Western Australia, Queensland and Tasmania were concerned that the High Court was being, in essence, converted into an exact replica of the United States Supreme Court which is permanently based in Washington. It is somewhat like a legal Taj Mahal. Everyone goes to Washington if he can afford it to have his case determined by the United States Supreme Court. This has not been the practice in Australia. Indeed, it was the expressed, and publicly expressed, view of  Sir Owen  Dixon, Australia's greatest Chief Justice of the High Court, that the High Court of Australia should travel into every State of Australia and should be accessible to the citizens of Australia whether they live in Hobart, Rockhampton, Brisbane or Bunbury. 
The die is cast. The High Court of Australia is to be permanently based in Canberra. There is nothing that any of us can do to change that decision. I do not intend to speak at length on this measure. However, I believe that the views I express will be accepted by honourable members on both sides of the House. I want to make the very earnest plea that it will do no good to this Commonwealth and no good to the people of Australia if the High Court of Australia hibernates in Canberra in some sort of legal Taj Mahal. I believe that the High Court of Australia is the people's court. Constitutionally it is the pinnacle of our legal system. I believe it would be the wish of at least some members of the present bench of the High Court that after the High Court takes up permanent residence in Canberra it will, nevertheless, continue to visit the outlying States on a regular basis. If someone is to say that is not to be so, let me put my question clearly and bluntly on the line. If the High Court will not move from Canberra, if someone has some idea that the High Court will be permanently based in Canberra, the Commonwealth Government, whichever party is in power, will have to pick up the tab to enable litigants from Queensland, Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania to get to the High Court. 
If this is not done we will find that within the space of one or two years the High Court will become the province of the rich and the privileged in Melbourne, Sydney and Canberra- the companies and corporations which can easily afford to travel to High Court hearings in Canberra. But what of the litigant? What of the ordinary citizen? What chance will he have if he has to travel from north Queensland, Western Australia, Tasmania or South Australia? His travelling expenses could outweigh the legal costs or, indeed, the amount which was in question. 
-That may limit his costs somewhat. But I think one may find- and I do not want to defame the Sydney bar and the Minister is very careful not to look at me when I make this comment- that the costs of the bar in Brisbane are considerably less than those in Sydney. I will not comment further on that. I want to make the point- and I know the Minister, because of his practical experience in his lengthy and distinguished career at the bar in Western Australia would recognise and, indeed, accept what I am saying- that the High Court must never become inaccessible to the ordinary man whether he lives in one of the major population centres or whether he is sensible enough to live in one of the more beautiful and less populated States of Australia. 
Having made that point might I say that it would be churlish of me not to make some comment upon a matter which has interested lawyers in this country for at least the last decade and to which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition referred in his speech. I refer to the question of whether we should have a single system of the administration of justice in this country; in other words, whether we should have a single system whereby, for example, all courts were Federal courts. I want to say that the argument has been canvassed by many distinguished and eminent jurists and lawyers and for my own part I prefer the view which has been expressed publicly on this question by  Sir Laurence  Street, the Chief Justice of New South Wales. I believe it would be a tragedy for Australia if we were to have a situation in which State Supreme Courts were to go out of existence. I would challenge as a matter of law whether they could be legislated out of existence in any event. But suffice it to say that I believe State Supreme Courts are an integral part of our Federal system and for my own part I could not accept that there should be a single unitary Federal system. 
I am well aware that arguments have been raised in good faith by persons on the other side of the fence who have said: 'Look, by retaining Supreme Courts in addition to the Federal court system there is duplication, confusion, added cost and so on'. I do not think anyone in his right mind would dispute the fact that Federalism is an expensive system of government to operate. It is certainly far more expensive than a one-man centralist dictatorship, which is a very cheap form of government, but for the preservation of basic rights and for a country as widely diverse as Australia the Federal system in my judgment is the only system. It is one which I wholeheartedly support. Therefore, like  Sir Laurence  Street, the Chief Justice of New South Wales, I enter the debate to issue a word of caution. Those who on the face of it believe that a unitary Federal system of courts is the answer might well be unwittingly inviting a course of action which represents a disservice to the Commonwealth of Australia and to the individual residents of the States of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
I want to pay a tribute to those judges and in particular to the Chief Judge of the Federal Court of Australia,  Sir Nigel  Bowen, for the manner in which that court, since its inception, has integrated into the Australian legal system. I make these comments with some slight embarrassment because the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, who is at the table, and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition know full well that not a single Federal Court judge has been appointed for the State in which I reside. I have heard it said that there is not sufficient work to justify the appointment of a Federal Court judge for Tasmania. I find that hard to believe and I might suggest to the Government, with all due respect, that the reason that there is not a lot of Federal Court work in Tasmania is probably because there is not a Federal Court judge available in Tasmania. What is happening is that Federal Court work is being done on an agency basis in Melbourne, Sydney or Canberra. Somehow it does not seem to me to be right that there should be a Federal Court of Australia with judges appointed from every State in Australia except Tasmania. 
Whilst I am on that subject, might I say that it still does not seem to me to be right that for 79 years a man from Western Australia, South Australia or Tasmania has not been considered appropriate for appointment to the High Court of Australia or has not been prepared to accept such an appointment. I am prepared to concede a fair amount of legal acumen to those who are in practice at the Bar in Melbourne and Sydney and to those who sit upon the Supreme Court Benches of New South Wales and Victoria. I find it incredible that in 79 years of this Commonwealth no Western Australian, Tasmanian or South Australian has ever been appointed to the High Court of Australia. I leave that point with the Minister because I have no doubt that he is as acutely conscious of it as I am. I am not going to get involved in an argument as to the number of judges who have been appointed to the High Court of Australia from Victoria compared to the number appointed from New South Wales. I simply make the point that we have six States in this Commonwealth of Australia and that so far, for 79 years, the entire High Court Bench has come from only three of those States. 
I conclude by making a plea that the operations of the 1 976 principal Act and this amending Bill which is passing through the Parliament at present be kept under the closest review. I read in the Minister's second reading speech of the need to relieve the High Court of Australia of its very severe work load. I have some second-hand knowledge of the world load of a judge of the High Court of Australia because I served as associate to one of Australia's greatest judges, the right honourable  Sir Victor  Windeyer, in 1962 and 1 963. 1 have no doubt that the work load has increased since those days. In the desire to weaken the work load, however, let us not limit the right of access of the ordinary Australian to the highest court in the land, whether he be Liberal or Labor or whether he be rich or poor. This is not the question. Access to the High Court of Australia by every man, every woman and indeed every child, where an action is brought on behalf of a child, should be unrestricted. It is by that means that the High Court remains close to the people so that it is the people's court in every sense of the words. If we isolate the High Court and set it up as a legal Taj Mahal in Canberra we will limit its activities to technical points of law for the rich and we will have taken away from the people of Australia something which was guaranteed to them in the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia- something which is theirs. 
I want to see a situation in which, when we move into the 21st century, the High Court of Australia will be close to the people, and in which it will sit in Queensland to hear Queensland cases, with Queensland counsel, and with Queensland litigants able to sit in the court and listen to what is being done with their cases. The same should apply to Western Australians, Tasmanians and South Australians. I do not want to see the High Court become isolated. I do not want it to become a court to which the ordinary man and woman will not have access. To that extent, in giving my support to this Bill, I urge that governments, regardless of party affiliation watch carefully to ensure that there has not been created a situation in which the highest court of the land has become a court which is inaccessible to the ordinary man, woman and child. On the same basis- I know that the Government of which I am proud to be a member takes this view- let us not by Federal legislation do anything which will take away the traditional and substantial role of the State Supreme Courts. They are important. I believe that State Supreme Court judges are closer to the people than are either High Court judges or Federal Court judges, and that is no reflection on the two latter categories. It is simply a reflection of my belief that State governments are able to appoint men and women to sit on State Benches who are closer to the people in those States, and it is right that people in South Australia, Queensland, Tasmania and Western Australia should be tried literally by their peers within the States. 
This Bill was basically the product of the former Attorney-General, the distinguished and most honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  a man for whom I and all members of this Parliament have the highest regard. It has been brought forward by the present AttorneyGeneral, strongly assisted by his Western Australian colleague in this House, the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. It has passed through the government members' law and government committee, of which I have the honour to be  chairman.  My colleague the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron),  who sits alongside me, has the honour to be a member of that committee. We wish the Bill well but we hope that it will be kept under review and that an assurance will be forthcoming that nothing will come from this legislation which will deny justice to anybody in this country. 
-Has the Treasurer seen Press reports last week of proposals to introduce a capital gains tax, to introduce a petroleum revenue tax, to terminate family trusts and to restructure income tax scales? Can the Treasurer say what effects such proposals would have on national economic recovery, national productivity, inflation and national employment opportunities? 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes, I do. 
-On page 900 of  Hansard  for yesterday, 20 March, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  is reported as saying that I, the honourable member for Denison, 'may end up stuffed and mounted'. In so far as that statement contains an expressed threat, I demand that the Leader of the Opposition withdraw it. 

 -Mr Speaker, since the Parliament resumed this year I had intended to endeavour to prove to the House that good things do come in small packages. I refer specifically to one of the smallest ships in the Royal Australian Navy which recently visited Tasmania. I am referring to the patrol vessel HMAS  Attack,  which is the number one patrol vessel in Australia. It takes its name from the Attack class patrol vessels, of which we had a number in this country some years ago until most of them were given away by the former Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  to countries to the far north of Australia. HMAS  Attack  was in Hobart in January and February of this year and since then it has carried out extensive surveillance in Tasmanian waters. The reason I mention this matter is that the vessel has already demonstrated that it is the ideal type of ship to undertake the surveillance of Tasmanian waters which are far more extensive than perhaps many members of this chamber would realise. 
If one accepts the argument that constitutionally Tasmania has responsibility not merely for an area of water extending from her shores but, by virtue of a nineteenth century proclamation a much larger area and if we take into account the fact that Macquarie Island is part of Tasmania as well as being one of Australia's Antarctic bases, and then if we take into account also the 200 mile limit from the Antarctic, it is quite obvious to all of us that there is a very substantial area of water which must be the subject of surveillance from Tasmania. The impact of the presence of HMAS  Attack  in Tasmanian waters has been such that I believe it would be the overwhelming wish of the majority of people in Tasmania that HMAS  Attack  or a similar vessel should be based permanently in our State. I pay tribute not only to the vessel but also to the crew and with the consent of the Opposition I seek to incorporate in  Hansard  a list setting out the current crew of HMAS  Attack  on its recent visit to Tasmania. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

CREW OF H.M.A.S. ATTACK 
Christopher Le Marshall- Captain 
Keith Johnson- Executive Officer 
Doug Thompson- Midshipman Under Training 
David Oates- Charge Engineer 
Brian Mills- Second Engineer 
Fred Auty- Coxswain 
Phil Tovey- Chief Bosuns Mate 
Shane Logan- Leading Seaman Marine Engineer 
William Bennett- Leading Seaman Marine Electrician 
Greg Webb- Leading Seaman Weapon Mechanic 
Keith Simmonds- Leading Seaman Quarter Master Gunner 
Tom Albrecht- Able Seaman Electrician Communications 
Colin Burke- Able Seaman Radio Operator 
Peter Emery- Able Seaman Quarter Master Gunner 
Lance McDermott-Able Seaman Quarter Master Gunner 
Peter Fehlanot- Able Seaman Chef 
Gavin Jewell- Able Seaman Marine Engineer 
Nic Stancic- Able Seaman Marine Engineer 
Geoff Peart- Able Seaman Fire Control 
-Talking of the Attack class patrol ships brings to mind the fact that tenders have been let by the Government for the construction of an additional 12 patrol vessels. When I raised with the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  as to whether HMAS  Attack  or one of her sister ships could be based permanently in Tasmania, I gained the impression that Tasmania might be regarded as a suitable base for several more patrol ships. 
There has been a great tendency in recent times to consider maritime surveillance in the north of Australia. I believe that surveillance of the south is equally as important. Material available indicates that strategically the five mainland States could be in very great trouble defending themselves if somebody was able to attack and capture Tasmania. Bearing in mind the fact that Tasmania would stoutly resist any invasion, I must say that  Dr Robert  O'Neill has gone on record as saying that the capture of Tasmania would provide the largest floating aircraft carrier in the world and would be potentially a magnificent base from which to launch attacks on the Australian mainland and New Zealand. I know that the Minister for Defence is receptive to the suggestion that Tasmania should have Royal Australian Navy vessels based permanently in its waters. Whilst I would like to ask for a destroyer, I would content myself at this point with the submission that at least there should be patrol vessles there. 
In the remaining seconds of my remarks I draw attention to the fact that I believe it is the overwhelming wish of honourable members on both sides of the House that the reserve decoration be restored. I pay tribute to the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Aldred)  and others who have taken up this matter. Anzac Day is fast approaching. Many people in this country believe that the reserve decoration should be restored. I hope that it will be restored. I go further and say that I hope it will be restored before Anzac Day so that those reserve decorations may be worn on that occasion by the people who have worked so hard and who are justifiably entitled to that award. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move, and the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  will second: 
That this House expresses its profound regret at the recent public persecution by the New South Wales Government, the authorities, and rival sections of the electronic and print media of national radio commentator  Mr John  Laws over what has become known as the 'St George Building Society incident', and further expresses its opinion that there is an urgent need for the establishment of a code of procedure to apply uniformly throughout all sections of the media and to prevent the unjustified denigration of particular individuals. 
-I rise to support the motion before the Chair. I do not do so lightly but after long and careful consideration and after long and lengthy discussions with many people, discussions which have revealed wide differences of opinion even within my own family and amongst my own friends. Before addressing myself to the motion I wish to thank all those people within the community, on both sides of this argument, who have taken the trouble to contact me personally, by telephone, by letter or by telegram expressing their views. I want them all to know that I have given each and every one of their representations the most careful and heartsearching consideration. 
My position on this motion can be stated simply. If a person believes that something is fundamentally morally wrong, it must follow as a matter of logic that it is equally fundamentally morally wrong for taxpayers' money to be appropriated to give effect to it. My position with respect to abortion is stated, if I might say so, in one of the finest speeches ever delivered in this Federal Parliament. It was delivered on 10 May 1973 by the most distinguished former honourable member for Fremantle, the  Hon.  Kim Beazley. I heard him make that speech as I was driving my motor car. I remind the chamber today of what he said back in 1973: 
Innocent human life, in whatever stage of development, should be secure from the very first moment of its existence from any direct and wilful attack. This is the essential right of the human person . . . It is as valid a legal and human right for the life still hidden in the womb of its mother as it is for the life already born and proceeding with an existence independently of the mother. It is not a matter of belief that the embryo is a human person. It is a matter of knowledge that the embryo state is part of human growth . . . abortion used as a deliberate means of destroying a life, and not as a means of saving a life, is a grave attack upon the inviolability of human life. 
What he said in the next passage I shall quote has come home only so forcibly to an Australia approaching the 1 980s.  Mr Beazley  said: 
The wide spread assertion of the need for such methods of contraception-by-killing is the measure of the degree to which social values have become callous and ruthless. 
I want also to refer to another outstanding speech, again by a Western Australian, a member of this House who spoke only yesterday. I refer the House to the speech of the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde).  I shall read part of that speech and adopt it as my submission as to the fundamental prime point of the motion before the Chair. The honourable member for Moore said this: 
My first value judgment is that the purpose of society is to serve the well-being of its members. The second is that the individual's own perception of his well-being is of paramount importance. It is not a judgment but a matter of observation that people prize their own lives very highly indeed. The third is that in matters of fundamental importance, such as security of life and limb, all members of society have equal rights and claims upon society. My fourth value judgment is that any government is responsible to its people for the protection of that physical security. 
The honourable member for Moore concluded his memorable speech with these words: 
The ultimate obligation of any government is to protect the lives of its people. Even though mankind may well be assured of a more comfortable future if it were less numerous, once government gets into the business of deciding who is to die, society is at risk because people will not be able to trust that society with their own lives. When a government pays for abortions, it has taken a short step along the road to determining who is entitled to live. 
A few days ago Cardinal  Sir James  Freeman referred to an abortion mentality which has arisen within our society. These words are strikingly similar to those used by  Mr Beazley  when he referred to contraception by killing and social values being callous and ruthless. As an Australian, I find it a matter of regret that our nation has one of the worst abortion records in the civilised world today. On a conservative estimate 80,000 terminations of pregnancy are carried out in Australia per annum. What are my sources? They are 50,000 recognised, reported and medical benefit funded abortions; 1 10,000 dilatations and curettages, of which 30,000 are terminations of pregnancies. So we have 80,000 terminations in a population of 14 million. What is the position in the United Kingdom which has a population of 40 million? 
-Thank you, 50 million. Last year the figure was 1 10,000. That one out of every four pregnancies ends in abortion is something of which this nation cannot and should not be proud. That in one State of Australia 40 per cent of pregnancies of women aged between 15 and 19 years resulted in abortion, providing a ratio of one abortion for every 1 .5 births, again is a matter of shame. That a mother can come into my parliamentary office and tell me that her 19- year-old daughter has just had her third abortion, after she had been counselled and advised by people whose identity would be well known to honourable members in this House, I believe is a matter of which I as a Federal member of parliament cannot be proud. 
It is bad enough that we appear to be on a path of national self-genocide, but how much worse it is that, while over 80,000 unborn Australians never see the light of day, thousands of parents around Australia are denied the opportunity of adoption. Those thousands of parents could provide magnificent Australian homes for magnificent Australian children who will never be born. How can we face those people when they are told that they have to wait three, four or five years and at the same time be part of a government which funds the slaughter of the unborn? I believe that respect for human life is the only thing that distinguishes a civilised society from the animal kingdom and the barbarians. I believe that the vote that will be taken today is not a vote on rich versus poor; it is a vote on right versus wrong. The decision taken by this House will be an indication to the people of Australia of the value which we are prepared to place upon human life. 
I adopt the arguments of the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  in seconding the motion. I ask the question: Who will speak for the unborn child, other than the members of this Parliament? Who will put the case for the foetus? I want to draw an analogy between the situation of a man on trial for his life and that of a foetus. I am a barrister. I have lived in a State where in my lifetime, under a Labor government, a man has been hanged for murder. What sort of defence did that man have? He and others who have been executed in Australia had the best available legal representation. They had a fair trial before a judge and a jury. Everything possible was said on their behalf. Many were acquitted. Some were convicted and some were hanged but nobody could say that any man was hanged without a fair trial. 
Some years ago in Hobart a part-Aboriginal serving a long sentence in prison was charged with a serious assault on a warder. It was quite clear that, if convicted, he would have received a sentence of five to 10 years. It was a very serious matter. He said: 'I did not assault the warder; the warder assaulted me'. In that trial I asked the jury: 'Who else other than you, the jury, will be standing by prepared to protect and defend this prisoner? If you are not prepared to defend him, who else will? What sort of life will he have in prison if he is convicted?' I believe that it is the duty of this Parliament and of this nation to recognise that for too long in the abortion debate the rights of the foetus have been ignored and overlooked by people who were duty bound to uphold those rights. Whilst I fully recognise the logic and the sincerity of the point of view put by honourable members who have taken in this debate a view different from my own, the rights of the mother should be considered. I plead that the right of the foetus be considered. It is a matter of regret that a profession for which I have had respect has not stood on its hindlegs and honoured something which is not just symbolic of the Hippocratic oath but is pan of the teaching of Hippocrates upon which the medical profession has existed for 24 centuries. 
Today's vote in this Parliament is the first step to restoring here and now in the national Parliament some of the real values of human life, of saying to the community that we stand for those who have the rights to live. For those reasons, without any equivocation or qualification, this motion has my complete and wholehearted support. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
-Can the Minister for Home Affairs provide the House with facts and details concerning the present state of the Australian film industry? Is it going well or is it in difficulty? What is the current standing of the industry both within Australia and internationally? 
-I congratulate the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  for the fairness and impartiality of his speech. I heard part of the speech on the broadcast system of the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  who is now occupying the chair. I congratulate him for the fairness and impartiality of his speech. I note also the valuable contribution by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck).  I regret however that two styles of tactic appear to have been used in this debate. We have had fair and impartial speeches from two honourable members opposite and a strong speech from the honourable member for Franklin. Once again the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  is out of step. Whilst I recognise that he has to put on some sort of a show to justify his position in the Australian Labor Party representing the interests of Tasmania he reminds me more and more of a ferret. He whips in, has a quick nip and whips out again. That, with respect, has been the characteristic of his behaviour since he was appointed Australian Labor Party spokesman for Tasmania. He comes down to our State intermittently- it is some time since we have seen him- rather like a wandering minstrel, trying to seduce the electors of Tasmania to turn their five Federal members. They will not do so. Whilst the honourable member is welcome to holiday in Tasmania, he should not try to play politics there. 
The Tasmanian Native Forestry Agreement Bill 1979 comes before the Parliament as yet another indication of the Government's commitment to put into effect the recommendations of the report by  Sir Bede  Callaghan. Honourable members opposite ask what has been done in relation to the 10 point plan. They just do not know. Let me run quickly through some of the matters raised. I will not try the patience of the House. I remind the House of the $2 5m freight equalisation scheme which was based directly on the Callaghan report. This is nothing like the one-way $3.5m scheme which was introduced during the Whitlam years. The $25 m equalisation scheme applies to north bound and south bound traffic. I refer also to the accelerated construction of the Antarctic base. 
I have already paid tribute to my predecessor in the seat of Denison,  Mr John  Coates. He put the proposal forward. The Whitlam Government made the promise, we have delivered it. I believe one must be fair. I believe that if  Mr Coates  were in the chamber he would concede that I have at all times given him credit. The fact of the matter is that the Liberal Government is building the base. 
The honourable member for Blaxland asked what sort of policy is being followed when the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  says that a preference should be given to Tasmanian-made products. He appears to be unaware that a constitutional problem exists. Section 96 of the Constitution makes it difficult for a State preference to be given. But the matter is being worked on. The honourable member for Blaxland claimed that the defence forces in Tasmania would not be increased and said something about a letter from the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  to the Premier. I know that serious consideration is being given to upgrading the naval forces in Tasmania for the simple reason that increased marine surveillance will be essential with the introduction of the 200-mile limit: My colleague, the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  knows what I am talking about. I wanted to make those quick rejoinders. The honourable member for Blaxland should not make statements which are not correct in fact. 
I support the Bill. In the remaining minutes available to me, I repeat a plea that I made in this Parliament two years ago. I believe it to be constructive. It is consistent with the recommendations of the Callaghan report. I ask my friend and colleague the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann),  who is at the table, to pass forward to those in the Cabinet and particularly the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  the fact that I have once again raised this issue. The Federal Department of Primary Industry at the moment has a Forestry Branch. There is also a Forest Products Industry Advisory Council in the Department of Industry and Commerce. Two years ago, I approached the then Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Senator Cotton  as he then was, to ask whether he had any objection to my putting forward a proposal that the two sections should be amalgamated. I went to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and asked whether his Department had any objection to my putting forward the proposal. The two branches combined would represent a core of approximately 100 experts and public servants. I am putting the proposal forward again. The two branches should be brought together so that we have a national forestry bureau. When such a bureau is established, it should be based in Tasmania. This is not something I bring up for the first time. I raised it in the House two years ago. I commend to the Government the amalgamation of those two small sections as a national forestry bureau. It should be based in the forest State of Australia, namely, Tasmania. I support the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. In view of the fact that my mother is currently visiting New Zealand and had to go via the north island of Australia to get there, and in view of the widespread interest in Tasmania about the proposed establishment of a direct air link between Hobart and Christchurch, can the Minister inform the House as to the present state of negotiations with respect to this most exciting initiative? 
-In this Bill the Government honours yet another 1977 election policy commitment, an election policy commitment which, along with many others, swept the Fraser Government, back into power with the largest majority in the history of this country since Federation. From the outset I warmly congratulate the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and the Government for honouring this commitment. I will deal later with the carping comments which have come from the other side of the chamber through the person of the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  As an Australian, I welcome this Bill, even though it does not specifically assist my State of Tasmania or indeed the State of South Australia. I believe the legislation is good for Australia as a whole because I am quite unashamedly a railway buff. I believe that Australia's railways must be upgraded and that Australia will need its railway system more in the 21st century than it needs it today. In transportation, freight, communications, energy conservation, defence and tourism, the railways of Australia in the 2 1st century will play a very major role in the development of this country. 
This Bill provides for an appropriation of $70m over a five-year period to be divided between the four States of New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia. It is very significant to look at the Bill and fully appreciate exactly what the Australian Labor Party is getting at in the amendment moved a moment ago by the honourable member for Shortland. The first thing that I draw attention to is that under this Bill the Commonwealth will be inviting each State individually to enter into an agreement with respect to the provision of funds. This is something that did not occur on a previous occasion in my State. Those agreements will be laid upon the table of this Parliament for 15 sitting days, during which time any honourable member may raise a query about them. The point that I make is that there will be open, free and consensual agreement between the Commonwealth and the four States referred to in the Bill. This is totally different from what happened in 1974, when the Tasmanian Railways were sold out. I will come back to that with some feeling because it is something that I will not forget, and I do not believe many other Tasmanians will forget it either. 
Let me ask a question to get the matter clear, because the Minister for Transport in Tasmania was obviously confused about the matter at the time the Bill was brought in. Why is it that Tasmania and South Australia do not come under this Bill? The fact is that, with the exception of the metropolitan railways in South Australia, they are both now under the jurisdiction of the Australian National Railways Commission. The point that I make, and the point that I will prove, is that whilst this Bill is good, the treatment that Tasmania's railways are to receive from the Federal Government under the present Minister for Transport will be even better. So it must follow as a matter of logic that if I think this Bill is good- and I do- I am very proud of the fact that Tasmania has done even better under the arrangements to which I will refer. It is important, when considering the Bill, to note that every single clause provides for agreement and consensus. This is not a case of the Commonwealth Government taking a sledge hammer to the State governments. This is not a case of the Minister for Transport as meek and gentle as he is, browbeating the Premiers into submission. This is a case of co-operative federalism, a case for agreement between the Commonwealth and the States. 
I refer to the statistics to show how Tasmania has recovered dramatically from the terrible deal inflicted upon it by the Whitlam Government in 1974. Under the agreement at this present time, $70m is to be provided over a five-year program. On my calculations, if that amount was split up equally over the five-year period, it would be $14m per year, and Tasmania's share would be $450,000-less than half a million dollars. What deal does Tasmania have now for the rehabilitation of its railway system? It has a deal of $20m over 10 years, which is $2m per year- more than three times the per capita amount Tasmania would have received had it been party to the earlier agreement. So at last, in 1979-80, Tasmania's railway system is seeing some hope and prospect for the future. 
I do not want to be unkind, but every time I look at the Labor Party members, every time I hear the Labor Party mentioned, I think of rundown railway systems. Not only are they similar to run-down railway systems, but it is also a tragic fact that for some inexplicable reason State Labor governments, and indeed the Federal Labor Government in 1972-75- stand by while Australia's railways fall into disrepute and disrepair. In the State election in Tasmania of 1974- this is most relevant- a clear commitment was given by the then Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Reece,  that not only would the railway system be upgraded but also that the Hobart suburban railway passenger service would be maintained. What was the very first thing that Labor Government did? There is no prize for answering this question correctly, because everybody in the Parliament and everyone in Tasmania knows that the first thing it did was to kill the Hobart suburban railway passenger service. 
-Yes, it was a shameful thing to do. The second thing it did was to flog off Tasmania 's railways to  Mr Whitlam.  In 1974 I was given a brief to go to Mount Gambier in South Australia and I will tell the honourable member for Melbourne - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to make a brief personal explanation. 
Yes. 
I have been innocently incorrectly represented in  Hansard.  I do not criticise the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  for quoting the relevant passage. I draw attention to page 1454 of yesterday's  Hansard,  where I am reported as saying: 
Under the agreement at that time, $70m was to be provided over a five-year program. 
If one reads the previous sentence, it appears that that statement relates to the Whitlam Government's transfer agreement in relation to the Tasmanian railways. I was referring to the provisions of the agreement to be made under the National Railway Network (Financial Assistance) Bill for the $70m. I am well aware that the amount in relation to the transfer ofthe Tasmanian railways was a higher amount than $70m and that it was made in one payment. I make that comment in good faith, because I have already indicated to  Hansard  this afternoon by note that there was an error and I have asked that it be corrected. 

 Mr CHARLES JONES (Newcastle)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman). 
-This morning at dawn at Rawalpindi Zulfikar Ali Bhutto died. I believe it is appropriate that in this House on this day some comment be made about that matter. Might I say that this afternoon I walked across King's Hall and entered the Senate gallery and heard one of the finest bipartisan debates that I have ever heard in this Parliament. Six members of the Senate, three from each side, spoke with some feeling on the matter, and all credit to them. The sentiments conveyed by  Senator Wriedt, Senator Missen, Senator Wheeldon, Senator Sim, Senator Sibraa  and  Senator Puplick  were a credit to them and to the Parliament. One of those senators,  Senator Sim,  had actually met Prime Minister Bhutto, but all of them expressed the view that I wish to express tonight in this chamber.  His  execution is a tragedy for the Western world, a tragedy for parliamentary democracy wherever it exists and a tragedy for Pakistan. 
I believe that the sentiments I express will be supported on both sides of this chamber and I hope that tomorrow in this House a formal motion of condolence will be moved with respect to the death of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.  His  career perhaps was more distinguished than most Australians realise. With the consent of my colleague and friend, the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  two short biographical treatises on the late  Mr Bhutto,  one from  Who's Who  and one from  International Who's Who. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

WHO'S WHO 1978 
Bhutto, Zulfikar Ali, HPK 1964; politician and lawyer, Pakistan; Prime Minister of Pakistan, 1973-77  (President of Pakistan, Dec. 1971-73);  Minister for Foreign Affairs and Defence, 1971-77; Founder and  Chairman,  Pakistan People's Party, since 1967; b Larkana, S Jan. 1928; s of late  Sir Shahnawaz  (Can Bhutto; m; two s two d. Educ: Univ. of California, Berkeley (grad. Hons Pol. Sci.); Christ Church, Oxford (MA with dist. Jurisprudence). Called to Bar, Lincoln's Inn, 19S3. Lear in Internat. Law, Univ. of Southampton, 1952; Legal Practice, West Pakistan High Court, Karachi, 1953-58; taught Constitutional Law, Sind Muslim Law Coll., Karachi, 1956-58. Elected Mem., Nat. Assembly of Pakistan for Larkana, 1962; Minister for Commerce, Pakistan, 1958-60; of Minority Affairs and Nat. Reconstruction and Information, 1960-62, also of Fuel, Power and Nat. Resources and of Kashmir Affairs, April 1960-62; and of Industries and Natural Resources, 1962-63; for Foreign Affairs and Atomic Energy, 1963-66; resigned from Govt, June 1966, returned to legal profession; imprisoned, Sept. 1968; released Feb. 1969; elected Mem., Nat. Assembly, Dec. 1970; Dep. Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of Pakistan, Dec. 1971; Chief Martial Law Administrator, Dec. 197 l-April 1972. Sec-Gen., Pakistan Muslim League, 1964. Mem. Pakistan Delegn to Gen. Assembly, UN, 1957; Leader of various Delegns and Special Missions, including UN Conf. on Law of the Sea, Geneva, 1958, and UN General Assembly, 1959, 1960, 1963, 1965 and 1966.  Hon.  LLD Sind Univ., 1966. Hilal-i-Pakistan, 1964; holds foreign orders. Publications: The Myth of Independence, 1968; The Great Tragedy, 1971. Recreations: studies and big game. Address: Al-Murtaza, Larkana, Pakistan. 
INTERNATIONAL WHO'S WHO 
Bhutto, Zulfiqar Ali; Pakistani lawyer and politician b. 5 Jan. 1 928,  Larkana;  s. of the late  Sir Shahnawaz  Khan Bhutto; ed. Univ. of California (Berkeley), Christ Church, Oxford, and Lincoln's Inn, London. Lecturer in Int. Law. Univ. of Southampton 52-53; Teacher of Constitutional Law, Sind 
Muslim Law Coll., and private legal practice53-58; Minister for Commerce 58-60, of Minority Affairs, Nat. Reconstruction and Information Jan. 60-62, of Fuel, Power and Natural Resources, and Kashmir Affairs April 60-62, of Industries and Natural Resources 62-65, of Foreign Affairs 63-66; formed Pakistan People's Party Dec. 67, elected leader 70; led popular movement against Pres. Ayub Khan 68; arrested Nov. 68, released Feb. 69; Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs Dec. 71; Pres. of Pakistan 71-73, Minister of Foreign Affairs 71-77, of Defence 71-77, of Atomic Energy 72-77; Prime Minister 73-77, deposed in coup and imprisoned July 77, released July 77, detained again; Sentenced to death on murder charge March 78; Chair. Islamic Summit Conf., Lahore 74; mem. and leader Pakistan Dels to UN Gen. Assembly; several decorations. Pubis. The Myth of Independence 69, The Great Tragedy 71, The Third World: New Directions, c/o Military Council, Islamabad, Pakistan. 
I thank the honourable member for Corio and I thank the House. May I just say that something  Senator Wheeldon  said this afternoon impressed me immensely. In the opinion of Professor H. R. Trevor-Roper, of Oxford University, the late  Mr Bhutto  was one of the most distinguished students ever to pass through that university. He was at Christchurch, of course, and he went to Berkeley in California. He was called to the bar, was a member of Lincoln's Inn and lectured in international law at the University of Southampton in the United Kingdom before returning to Pakistan. What  Senator Wheeldon  said and what I want this House to hear is that when  Mr Bhutto  became Prime Minister of Pakistan the first official guest he invited to his country was his old professor, Professor Trevor-Roper. I know that my colleague opposite, the honourable member for Lalor who follows these matters, will recognise the validity of what  Senator Wheeldon  said. The first guest invited to Pakistan after  Mr Bhutto  became Prime Minister was a scholar. 
From this distance it is impossible to make an accurate assessment of what has occurred. Some of the facts are indisputable. An elected Prime Minister was deposed by a military coup. He was imprisoned in July 1977, temporarily released and then re-imprisoned and held in custody for 20 months. He was convicted on what in Australian law would be a charge of aiding and abetting the commission of a crime, a very difficult charge to pin home on any occasion. When he went to the highest court in Pakistan, the situation was that of a bench of seven, which originally was nine, three judges were for acquittal, three were for conviction, and the casting vote of the Chief Justice went for conviction. One cannot ignore the real possibility in this case that today the world has witnessed a political, judicial murder. That is a matter of shame to people around the world who believe in parliamentary democracy. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, on notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) Has he criticised the Australian Broadcasting Commission for indulging in self-imposed censorship, and publicly indicated that if the ABC wanted to retain a staff-elected Commissioner he would strongly put the submission to the Government 
Precisely, what is the present position. 
-History will probably recall that the death in Rawalpindi yesterday of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto was most notable for its tragic futility. The predetermined ending of any human life is always a matter of profound regret.  Mr Bhutto's  death ended the distinguished though controversial career of a brilliant scholar, lawyer, politician and statesman. It is not my right to pass a detailed judgment on his achievements or his faults. The distinguished Oxford academic, Professor H. R. Trevor-Roper unhesitatingly described  Mr Bhutto  as one of the most brilliant students he had ever known, and it is not without significance that the first official guest invited to Pakistan by  Mr Bhutto  after he was elected Prime Minister was his old mentor Professor Trevor-Roper. 
The controversy over  Mr Bhutto's  guilt or innocence, the impartiality or otherwise of the proceedings at his trial and subsequent appeal hearings, and the treatment of the man during his 20-month incarceration which ended so abruptly yesterday are matters which only history will resolve. The sadness of the whole affair is that the voices of countless nations and world leaders were not, in the ultimate, heard, nor was their counsel heeded. I am proud of the fact that Australia, through its distinguished Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, did speak out loudly and clearly on this issue and that today, in sadness, this Parliament formally records its deep regret at the passing of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of the importance of Australia's economic reputation overseas with respect to its borrowing capacity and trading strength, has the Prime Minister received recently any up-to-date reports from London, particularly the London Chamber of Commerce, as to the current assessment of Australia 's economic prospects? 
-In the few minutes remaining, I want again to raise a protest in this House about an attack made on a private citizen under parliamentary privilege. I deplore the tendency in this Parliament and other parliaments throughout Australia to make attacks upon private citizens under parliamentary privilege. It is a practice that I believe should be stamped out. Since 1848 it has been the practice of the House of Commons that no charge of a personal character can be raised save upon a direct and substantive motion to that effect. It does this House no credit that once again we have had today a regrettable attack upon a private citizen under the cloak of parliamentary privilege. The attacker, whom I endeavoured to contact tonight, has been invited to repeat on radio the comments he made today in the House and he has declined that invitation. 
The attack was particularly unfortunate when one takes note of the fact that there is already on the Notice Paper of this House a notice of motion in my name specifically dealing with this matter- not to attack a person but to exculpate him. I refer to motion No. 40 given by me on 22 March this year. I am not going to beat around the bush. I have not met the man attacked and I do not know what he is like. However, I am sick and tired of people standing in this House and other places and referring to people in the community as 'ratbags' and 'lunatics', which was the description applied today to a radio commentator,  Mr Laws,  in a speech made in this House by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown).  Whether  Mr Laws  is a ratbag or a lunatic I do not know, but I take this opportunity, for about the twentieth time in a parliamentary career going back to 1 966, to say that if members of this Parliament are going to use parliamentary  privilege to smear and defame citizens in the community, they will have only themselves to blame if the community treats this Parliament with contempt. There was a case last year where a citizen of New South Wales was defamed in the South Australian Parliament under parliamentary privilege. It is happening over and over again. How any parliament can ask for the respect of the community when it defames decent citizens in this manner is completely and absolutely beyond my comprehension. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. House adjourned at 1 1 p.m. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, after listening to the contribution of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  whom I have been privileged to follow in a number of similar debates, I can only say that he ought to have been an undertaker and not a politician. How he could keep a straight face while saying some of the outrageous things he has said in the last eight minutes is absolutely beyond me. It must win a prize for the greatest tongue in cheek speech in the Parliament this year. On the one hand, he took the opportunity to have a sly dig at the judiciary, and on the other hand he sought to butter up the Public Service.  His  speech was like the parson's egg. In the first part of his speech, he was complaining that judges were getting too much, and in the second part he was saying that they were not getting enough. It was a case in which he was not only a man for all seasons, but also a man who was seeking to please all with his remarks. I take a strong view on these Bills. They legitimise a practice which has been carried on in this country for the last 25 years, and which was carried on during the years of the Whitlam Government. I make that point, and I hope that many people hear it. This practice was carried on during the years of the Whitlam Government. The Labor Government had the opportunity to bring in a Bill. It had the opportunity to put it on the statute books. It did not do so. 

 -The Deputy Leader of the Opposition spoke, tongue in cheek. He was poker faced. He really ought to have been an undertaker. He would have been a beauty. He would have done very well indeed. At least the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has the sense of humour and the grace to acknowledge that there is some validity in what I am saying. I think both sides of the House would agree that it is far better that payments of entitlements to the judiciary be put on a legislative basis and not be left to Executive discretion as was mentioned in the second reading speech of the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  who represents the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in this place. The point that I make is that what is provided in the legislation has been the practice in this country for a quarter of a century. Indeed, this legislation comes before this Parliament as the result of undertakings which were given by the Attorney-General, and indeed his predecessors, to Senate Estimates committees, that legislation would be introduced to authorise those payments. 
I do not make it a practice to praise Prime Ministers, Ministers, or even judges. But I believe that some of the remarks made by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition may well be interpreted as indicating that judges are getting somewhat of a better deal. The amendment proposed by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition compares the position of a judge, on the one hand, with a public servant on the other. As a former Commonwealth public servant I should like to make some comments about that comparison. With the utmost respect, I do not think it is valid. I suggest that there would be very few Commonwealth public servants who had gone into the Public Service at a loss of salary. Yet overwhelmingly that is the situation with respect to judicial appointments. I think in fairness to judges in the High Court, the State courts and the Federal courts, there would be very few, if any, who could not have earned substantially more if they had remained at the Bar. 
I have reason to believe that my colleague, the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  may speak along these lines in his address. In other words, judges have made a substantial financial sacrifice to serve this country in the judiciary. Also, the public servant, as a rule, is not subject to the same constraints in relation to taking his long service leave as judges are. Very few, Commonwealth or State public servants would have been told that they could not take their long service leave for five years. Yet there is one judge well known to all honourable members who has not been able to take any leave for five years. 
-Not any leave at all. That situation is known to both sides of the House. The situation in relation to the High Court of Australia, as I think the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will be pleased to confirm, is that there have been times when, because of the illness of a judge or for some other pressing reason, it has not been possible for the Chief Justice of the High Court to release judges to take their long service leave. Those are facts that the public ought to know. I am not here to speak in a judges' benefit debate. I am simply pointing out that it is not, in my respectful submission, a fair analogy to compare judges' provisions with long service leave provisions applying to Commonwealth public servants. It is significant that I have not heard that point of view put by Commonwealth public servants in relation to this legislation. If they were offended by it, if they thought it was unjust, I have no doubt that the capable officers representing the public servants of Australia would have risen in rage and said that they were not getting a fair go. But they have not made those representations. That does not debar the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition from drawing a comparison and putting his case. I am simply saying that I am not aware of it. 
Indeed, and I am going to come to that. I am not aware of any representations from any public service white collar body in respect of this legislation. In relation to the pro rata situation, I simply say that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is probably correct when he says that certain undertakings may well have been given. I am not in a position to dispute what he says and he is usually accurate when he makes statements as important as that. But I think there is a second argument that has to be considered, that is the precedent that would have been established by the pro rata provisions if they had been different to what they are and the effect of the flow-on into the private sector. It may well be, if the Deputy Leader of the Opposition's argument is correct, that it would be taken up as a precedent. 
I am making the point about any additional benefit to a judge for service of say, less than seven years, which might be considered where an appointment has been made late in life and he cannot reach the period for which these entitlements accrue, that at a time when there is a feeling that there should be restraint in the community and at a time when this Parliament has approved annual indexation of pensions as opposed to six-monthly indexation of pensions- my position on that is well known and clearly understood because I voted against it, as I believed I was obliged to vote- it might well be argued that the provision of additional benefits for the judiciary is inappropriate. I say with as much force as I can muster that to suggest in any way, shape or form that the Government's approach to this legislation has been affected by anything  Mr Justice  McGregor has or has not done in recent times is a proposition which I would reject categorically. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition did not go on to say, as one might have thought that he would, that  Mr Justice  McGregor will not get these benefits because of things he put in the report of his royal commission, the people he criticised or the actions that followed the release of that report. I am pleased to see the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition making it clear by shaking his head that he is making no such suggestion. I do not know personally  Mr Justice  McGregor or the Family Law Court judge affected but I do not know that whatever is decided today about this Bill will not necessarily be the final word. One might appreciate that it could be argued, and no doubt would be argued in other jurisdictions, that a precedent was being set; that the Government, instead of doing as the Labor Government did, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  was wont to say, and making the public servants the pacesetters and then later calling them the fat cats, was setting a precedent in regard to the judiciary. In all the circumstances, I do not believe that that would be a proper comment to make. 
The fact of the matter is that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, in a very whimsical way, has tried to do two things, as I said at the commencement of my remarks. He has tried to have a sly dig at the judiciary- heaven knows why- and he has endeavoured to butter up the Public Service. To that extent I have to say in mildness that the amendment proposed is a classic example not of chicanery but of cant and hypocrisy. It is an amendment with no substance whatsoever. On this occasion I think I would not even have to consult with the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  or any other member of the Government to have the authority to say that the Opposition's amendment should be exposed as a rather humorous but quite insubstantial device with no merit, and one which will be resoundingly defeated in this 
House when the matter goes to a vote at the conclusion of the debate. 
I cannot resume my seat when I have the opportunity to speak for a few moments on the privileges and rights of justices of the High Court of Australia without again reminding this House that in 79 years there has never been a Tasmanian, a South Australian or a Western Australian appointed to the High Court of Australia. It is the highest court of the land; it belongs to the people of Australia. I urge as strongly as I can that the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  in considering those worthy to sit upon the High Court of Australia, gives the utmost consideration to appointing a judge from one of the three less populous but highly talented States. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! I do not think that this matter is within the province of these two Bills. 
I accept your ruling in good part. It would only relate to the entitlements of the new High Court judge when he is appointed. I hope he is a Tasmanian a South Australian or a Western Australian. I support the Bill. 
I desire to raise two matters tonight, one of which relates to air fares and the other of which relates to 
Telecom Australia. It seems to me to be incredible that, in the period of one week during which there have been persistent reports of an application for an increase in domestic air fares within Australia by both Ansett Airways of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines, there has not been a substantitive motion moved, a question asked or debate initiated in this Parliament on that matter. I want to speak, albeit parochially, in response to the request by the airlines for a 10 per cent increase in air fares and to indicate that such an increase would have a dire effect on Tasmania, of which 1 have the honour to be one of the representatives in this House. For those people who are concerned about Tasmania, the situation, quite frankly, is that over 90 per cent of people travelling to and from Tasmania do so by air. Any increase in air fares will have a most savage effect upon Tasmania's developing tourist industry which is now worth over $50m per annum to our State. The fact of the matter is that as domestic air fares go up and as the cost of travelling to Tasmania increases, more and more Australians will turn to alternative places at which to spend their holidays. Regrettably many of them will travel outside this country for their holidays instead of seeing Australia first. 
Only three months ago the Tasmanian members of this House held urgent discussions with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  about a proposed air fare increase of 4 per cent. I believe that before any domestic air fares increase is granted which will affect Tasmania and the rest of Australia, first and foremost the Minister for Transport must ensure that no hardship will be caused and that no irreparable damage will be done to our developing tourist industry. Secondly, I believe that in the case of Tasmania the Minister would be entitled to call in the domestic airline operators and to put to them in the strongest terms the dire effect that increased air fares would have upon Tasmania's trade, communication and tourism. Anything like a 10 per cent increase in air fares would be of such significance that Tasmania should be granted either a concession or some form of dispensation. After all, Tasmania is Australia's only island state. 
The other matter I wish to raise is one which I believe is of importance Australia-wide. I know that it may sound a small matter to some honourable members but I believe that it is a matter of injustice and one which should not be permitted to continue. I am firmly of the view that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  should give a firm direction to Telecom that no more telephone disconnections be carried out on a Friday. The fact of the matter is that disconnections have been carried out on a Friday. Recently a widow in my electorate rang at 4 o'clock on a Friday afternoon to say that her telephone had just been disconnected. She was told that if the account were paid her telephone would be reconnected. 
She rang from a public telephone box, of course. The honourable member might not know about public telephone boxes. She was told that if she paid the account her telephone would be reconnected immediately. She paid her account and she was then told that the staff had knocked off and that there were no facilities for the reconnection of the phone over the weekend. I believe that the disconnection of telephones should be the last resort. Such action can cause incredible hardship, in this particular case to a widow with three small children. I believe that any government with any humanity in it should issue a direction that no disconnections shall be carried out on a Friday. On Monday, Tuesday Wednesday or Thursday perhaps, but at least the subscriber should be given the opportunity of paying the bill and getting the telephone reconnected. I believe that this is an important matter. I believe that honourable members on both sides of the House would support me. It is wrong to disconnect telephones on a Friday and I hope that this practice is stopped very quickly. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What is the Government 's reaction to the news today that after six and a half years of negotiations the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty- SALT II- may be signed in the near future by  President  Carter and  Mr Brezhnev?  Can the Minister express a realistic assessment as to whether or not the said treaty is likely to be ratified by the United States Senate? Does the Minister see any dangers for the Western world in the signing of the said Treaty, particularly on the question of surveillance, in view of what has recently happened in Iran? Last but not least, can the Minister indicate, even though the full text of the Treaty has not yet been released, what sanctions are envisaged with respect to discovered breaches of the Treaty by the Soviet Union? 
-Today's debate has been provoked by an incredible address by the Opposition's shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Senator Wriedt,  entitled 'Implications of the United States Bases in Australia' to an organisation known as the Association for International Co-operation and Disarmament, New South Wales, at a one-day seminar held on Sunday, 20 May last. For the benefit of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  I will not quote from the Press reports. I will quote verbatim from the speech of  Senator Wriedt,  as indeed did my colleague the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  in his opening address. 
The debate is brought about by a speech which at the very best was shockingly expressed and which at the worst was a studied, deliberate and calculated insult to the United States of America. It was a speech correctly described yesterday by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  in this House as the speech of a man who had entered a highly dangerous field. The Minister for Defence called upon the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  to make a clear statement on the position of the Labor Party in respect of this matter. What have we heard? From the Leader of the Opposition we have heard thundering silence. But the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition came into the Parliament this afternoon and compounded the felony because in essence he supported everything that  Senator Wriedt  put in his speech to the seminar last Sunday. 
I have read  Senator Wriedt  's speech very carefully and I want to say quite frankly that the only group in the world that I think would applaud that speech is the Soviet Union and its surrogates. There is certainly nothing in that speech which would bring any applause from any Australian, any American or any member of the free world. But above all, as the honourable member for Lilley has pointed out, it demonstrates more dramatically than anything else I have seen for a long time the pronounced swing to the left in Australian Labor Party foreign policy. It indicates in two very short basic points what a future Labor Government would do in relation to United States bases in Australia. First and foremost,  Senator Wriedt  is saying on behalf of the Australian Labor Party: 'You cannot trust the United States'. Let there be no doubt about it. Anyone who reads that speech carefully, fairly and impartially will see the message: 'You cannot trust the United States'. Secondly, he is giving clear notice that a future Labor Government in this country will in the long term seek the removal of the United States bases, particularly the three to which he specifically referred. No one can back away from that. That is exactly what  Senator Wriedt  is saying. The question I am about to ask  Senator Wriedt  through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  is: 'If those bases are removed what other country is he suggesting should put bases in Australia?' If they are to be removed, is he suggesting that they be replaced, for example, with bases run by the Soviet Union? Is it suggested that we do not need any bases in Australia; that Australia is able to defend itself; that we do not need allies; that we do not need the assistance of the United States? 
I am dumbfounded that  Senator Wriedt  chose this time, barely a fortnight after the anniversary of the battle of the Coral Sea, to launch what clearly was an unprovoked and premeditated attack upon the nation which stood by Australia in World War II and which stands by Australia today. Was  Senator Wriedt  simply playing to the gallery? He is the official Labor Party spokesman on foreign affairs. He is the shadow Minister. The words did not sound like his. They sounded more like the words we have become used to hearing from the pro-communist left wing which has now most assuredly taken control of the Australian Labor Party in this country- the same sort of people who are in charge of the Victorian branch, which last year at its conference refused, and I repeat 'refused', to stand up and condemn the systematic and brutal violations of human rights in the Soviet Union. These people were not even prepared to utter one word of criticism in respect of those continuing violations of human rights in the Soviet Union. Indeed,  Senator Wriedt's  speech would be applauded and supported by the pro-communist left, as it was applauded and supported by the pro-communist left wing audience to which he addressed his remarks last Sunday. 
In fairness to  Senator Wriedt  and so that the people of Australia can be the fair judges in this matter I want to quote selections from his speech and then ask whether or not the protestations of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition have any substance when he says there is nothing wrong with what  Senator Wriedt  said.  Senator Wriedt  started his speech by referring to the specific fact that the ability of the United States to monitor Soviet compliance with the terms of SALT had been weakened as a result of actions in Iran in recent times. So he recognised that America is in a weakened position. He then went on to say: 
This situation makes the United States even more dependable on its facilities at Pine Gap and Nurrungar - 
I can add North West Cape. He went on to say: 
In Australia, there are a number of facilities used by the United States Government, but the ones which have created most controversy - 
He then referred to the three which I have just mentioned. Where has been the controversy in Australia except between those who support the aims and ambitions of the Soviet Union and those who are determined that this country will be defended?  Senator Wriedt  emphasised the importance of these bases and then went on to make a number of statements which can be regarded only as calculated insults to the United States, insults which have the effect of denigrating and weakening the position of the United States. He talked about secrecy. He said:   the Australian public has very little knowledge about their functions. 
He continued: 
. there has been considerable speculation about their roles. 
He went on to say that their activities go far beyond the uses for which the base was originally contemplated and that the Australian Government has been kept in the dark. He continued: 
There is real fear that the facilities at these bases have been substantially upgraded - 
Real fear to whom? Real fear to the Soviet Union but certainly not to the people of Australia. He said:   . . Australian control is extremely weak. 
What an outrageous allegation to make. He then gave his former Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  a bucket, because he said that in retrospect the changes brought about by the Whitlam Government were probably less effective than originally hoped. I can go through the document chapter and verse, but the important passages appear on pages 1 1 and 12. For the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to say that  Senator Wriedt  was not asking for a lifting of secrecy is arrant nonsense. This is what  Senator Wriedt  said: 
It is important that this flow of information is made available in Australia. For too long the operation of these bases has. been shrouded in secrecy and the current Government gives no indication that it intends to make any change to that process. 
He went on to say:   . . the Labor Party will vary its policy on overseas bases by making it clear that it will make known to the Australian public the general purposes and functions of the bases and any changes to those purposes and functions. 
The Opposition says that  Senator Wriedt  is not wanting to lift the veil of secrecy. What did  Mr Whitlam  say? He said this: 
This Government - 
His Government-  win not yield to pressure to break the American alliance, withdraw from the ANZUS Treaty or divulge secrets about American defence bases in Australia. 
As the honourable member for Lilley said, once one makes these things public one does not just make them public only to the people of Australia, one makes them public to the Soviet Union and to any other nation which has territorial designs upon Australia. 
The Opposition cannot escape from the fact that  Senator Wriedt  was saying two things in his speech, namely, that one cannot trust the United States of America and that the Opposition wants to find out more about these bases. It will make the information public and, in essence, that will cause such a stir in Australia that the pressure of the public will be such it will be able to boot the Americans out of Australia and have those bases removed in the long term. The long term objective of the Australian Labor Party is to have those bases removed. Why else would  Senator Wriedt  use the words 'in the short term*? As the honourable member for Lilley said, what is meant by that? I think it is a matter of profound regret that the alternative government in this country has chosen this time to make an attack on the United States of America, barely weeks before the SALT agreement will be signed. Knowing that it will be going before the United States Senate for ratification, knowing the delicacy of the situation in relation to surveillance because of what has happened in Iran, these words of  Senator Wriedt  were contrary to the interests of Australia and highly insulting to the United States. 
I ask my colleague who is about to follow me this question: If he wants to see the United States bases removed from this country which country does he nominate to put in bases? The only country to gain by the removal of the United States bases from Australia is the Soviet Union and its satellites. If he wants to assist the Soviet Union I will be bitterly disappointed in him. I will be bitterly disappointed in the Australian Labor Party. I would hope that the Leader of the Opposition would repudiate what  Senator Wriedt  has said and repudiate the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition who compounded the felony. He did not come in and say that there had been a misunderstanding, he backed  Senator Wriedt  right up to the hilt. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition's speech will also be applauded by the Soviet Union. But surely his interests in the national security of Australia are such that he can now recognise that that speech was a disaster and ought to be repudiated by all decent thinking people in Australia. 
My question is to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. In view of the administrative cost of at least $10 in processing and forwarding a single letter to a pensioner advising him or her of pension variations of as little as 5c per week, and in view of the petty and annoying character of such letters, will the Minister, in conjunction with the Minister for Social Security, investigate the feasibility of in future applying and notifying only pension increases or reductions which are in excess of $ 1 per fortnight? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House denounces and condemns the Leader of the Opposition for his gross deception and fraudulence in endeavouring to pass himself off as a supporter of lower taxation, notwithstanding his atrocious record as Treasurer and his recent public threats exposed at the National Press Club on15 March this year that if elected to power, he would impose additional and iniquitous taxes on the people of Australia, including, a capital gains tax, resource rental tax, and a restructuring of personal income tax involving marginal rates, conservatively assessed as being as high as eighty cents in the dollar. 
The motion will be seconded by the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Moore). 
-The high regard in which I hold the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  does not, with respect, restrain me from making the point that whilst it is now recorded in  Hansard  that the Minister has indicated clearly his attitude as to the manner in which judges will issue warrants the short point, as my colleague the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  has made, is that this is not provided in the Act. There is substance in what the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  has said. We are entering a very new area of the law when we, as a Federal Parliament, countenance the tapping of a telephone being used by a citizen of this country in privileged communication with a member of the legal profession. There are two areas of concern to me. As the Minister is well aware, I will be supporting the amendment to be moved by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  in respect to proposed new section 2 19G. That section- I will not go into it but I cannot discuss this matter without making a passing reference to it- actually provides for evidence to be given in relation to non-narcotics offences which has been heard over a telephone which has been intercepted. The. honourable member for Prospect asked what would happen when a telephone was tapped in an attempt to trap a person involved in narcotic offences when he was talking to his solicitor and, instead of hearing that person make an admission another person was heard talking about the commission of a crime such as the robbery of the local Totalisator Agency Board premises, a murder or whatever. Under proposed new section 2 19G (3) that evidence would be admissible. The second area of concern is what would happen if Joe Smith is suspected of being involved in narcotics operations and a judge in good faith issues a warrant permitting the tapping of a telephone conversation between  Mr Smith  and his solicitor. Instead of talking about the narcotics offences they talk about a car stealing racket - 
Or a race horse racket or any racket unconnected with narcotics. Under proposed new section 219G(3) that evidence could be admitted provided it came within the provisions as they stand at the moment- I am aware that amendments have been prepared in relation to this matter- not only in relation to an indictable offence but also any offence in a State or Territory punishable by imprisonment for life or a maximum period of not less than three years. A person can get three years' gaol for a traffic offence in this country. It need not necessarily be an indictable offence at that. It makes it all the more difficult for me to say this because I accept the utter good faith and responsibility of the Minister. The expressions of good intent which he has given have been recorded in  Hansard.  I agree with him that judges will not issue warrants lightly. 
The point really raised by the honourable member for Prospect is whether we in this country today are prepared to legislate to permit extraneous matters- not only matters dealing with narcotics- to be used against citizens. The honourable member made the point quite validly that in the United States the giving of evidence and the passing on of information gained from a telephone tapping is restricted to the information specifically set out in the terms of the warrant issued. If something else is heard it cannot be passed on. The honourable member for Sturt will be moving an amendment to make it an offence for a person to pass on such information. These are matters of considerable substance. I do not relish having to disagree with the Minister, particularly in view of his highly responsible approach to the drug problem in this country but we are breaking very new ground today. I am surprised, frankly, that this legislation comes from a government of our calibre. Traditionally, on questions of the rights of the individual and the due process of law, we have been absolutely emphatic that we would not permit encroachment. I make it quite clear that I feel that one way of getting around the matter raised by the honourable member for Prospect would be to support the amendment to be moved by the right honourable member for Lowe so that the matter would not get into the court. Many on our side of the political fence would go the whole way and support the honourable member for Sturt in making it an offence for any person who has heard an intercepted or bugged telephone conservation to convey that information to anybody other than his superiors within the Department. 
I wish to respond very briefly. I find myself having to respond to both the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  and the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi).  There has been a misunderstanding and it ought to be clarified here and now. Sub-section (3) of proposed new section 219G talks about giving evidence in a court of law. I want to make that quite clear. At no time have I ever stood anywhere and said that information obtained by virtue of tapping should not be passed on. The argument is whether it should be given in evidence in a court of law. 
-With due respect, the words used are 'in evidence in a proceeding' and sub-section (3) (a) talks about a narcotics offence 'or for any other offence against the law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory punishable by imprisonment for life or for a period or maximum period of not less than three years'. I have pointed out that that could apply to traffic offences in certain States. I want to put the record clear. I am not for one moment suggesting that the information should not be passed on but what I am suggesting very strongly is that the question of whether it should be admitted in evidence in proceedings which are extraneous to narcotic trafficking is a very important question. Secondly, what the Minister has said in relation to privilege is probably technically correct on the advice of his officers but it is not correct in practice. I suggest that if, in the courts, counsel for the prosecution asked an accused person: 'Did you tell your solicitor that you were guilty?", the judge would just about have a fit. Even though the privilege is technically that of the solicitor to refuse to divulge the communication, it is not the only sort of privilege, of which we know, as the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  has reminded me. There is the privilege of the confession and privilege as between husband and wife. These privileges have been part of the law - 
Of course, medical privilege. These privileges have been part of the law not just for a few years but for centuries. In case it is thought that I am straying from the point, I turn to the matter that the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  has just raised. I respectfully suggest that a person cannot form a view on the issuing of a warrant unless he knows to what use the information will be put. Having seen only today the amendments put forward by the Opposition, it may be that the addition of the words sought in the two specific amendments is not strictly necessary. As the Minister has said and obviously accepts, the judge will be taking the factors mentioned into account even though they are not spelt out in the Act. The Opposition has expressed the view that those factors ought to be spelt out, but we cannot talk about the way in which a warrant is to be issued and form a proper basis of opinion on that matter without then finding out the end result. 
Having put myself in the position of disagreeing with both the Minister and the honourable member for Hawker let me point out that I agree basically with the proposition of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and with the proposition that is accepted in the United States of America that information obtained as the result of the issuing of a warrant can be given in evidence in a court of law only if it relates to the specific matter. If one budges from that by one inch as the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  has said, the foot is in the door. How easy it would be to thwart the law by this very simple process. Let me give an example. Sergeant Smith of the New South Wales police force has reason to believe that a car stealing racket is going on. He cannot get permission to intercept a telephone call or to lodge a bugging device. Sergeant Smith, being corrupt, says to his friend  Mr Brown,  a narcotics officer: ' I think that these people are engaged in narcotics'.  Mr Brown  thereupon gets a warrant in good faith because a police officer has said to him that the men are engaged in narcotics. Telephones, including those in solicitors officers are then bugged. A few days later  Mr Brown  comes back to Sergeant Smith and says: 'What do you know? These fellows were not engaged in narcotics at all; they were engaged in a car stealing racket. Here is the transcript of the conversation. ' That is a classic example of what could happen. It may be that the narcotics officer and the judge issuing the warrant act in good faith, but one man at the start of the chain sets everything in motion. I give that as an example of how easy it would be to thwart the law. Instead of bugging and telecommunications interception being restricted to narcotics it could be applied to any offence in this country for which a man could get three years imprisonment and that includes a third conviction on the breathalyzer. 
-In support of the amendment I comment on the last matter raised by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  in respect of the time of the warrant. The honourable member invited members on this side of the House to support the Opposition's amendment to reduce the maximum period of a warrant from 90 days to 30 days. I could not support that amendment but I do very strongly support the amendment moved by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife).  I emphasise that the duty on the Comptroller is a very heavy one indeed. I applaud the fact that the Government has legislated in this way. There is no need to go back to the judge, but there is every need for the Comptroller of Customs to ensure that as soon as the grounds upon which the warrant was originally issued have ceased to exist, that warrant must be thereupon withdrawn. If it continues after those grounds have ceased to exist, that would be recognised, on all sides of this House, as a very gross invasion of privacy. 
I feel that other honourable members on this side of the House, who were not unsympathetic to what the honourable member for Hawker said, would accept the basic proposition that the Comptroller should be in no doubt indeed, I am sure that under this Minister he will be in no doubt as to his obligations on that matter. If warrants are permitted to drag on after the original grounds for their making have ceased to exist, not only would the Comptroller be seriously breaching the law, but also there would be a continuing invasion of privacy. It might well be that if such a case was discovered the Parliament might think again as to the duration of the warrants. As it is, I have confidence in the Minister and in the Comptroller. That is why I could not support the Opposition's amendment, which was amendment No. (7) if my recollection is correct, moved by the honourable member for Hawker. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I am at least grateful that this clause is being debated and not gagged by somebody outside the chamber because the points that have come from both sides of the House indicate the validity of the principle involved. I want to place firmly on record my view that there is considerable merit in the submission put forward in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  which I note has been taken up on a bipartisan basis by certain honourable members opposite. I put forward the proposition that we cannot all be wrong. Basically, what we are talking about is something which goes to the basic rights of every Australian. It involves a question of whether this Parliament should legislate to permit a judge to authorise the planting of a bugging device in a solicitor's office, in a priest's confessional or under the bed of a married couple and, furthermore, whether the information then obtained shall be given in a court of law in relation to a charge against a person for something totally unrelated to narcotics. Those are the issues involved. 
I believe that people in the community listening to this debate would be horrified if they thought that a telephone bugging device, which was used ostensibly in relation to narcotics, caused a situation where a tape was played back in a case which had nothing to do with narcotics. I repeat that in certain States of Australia one can get 3 years gaol if one receives one 's third conviction for failing a breathalyzer test. I shall not go over the arguments I raised this afternoon in relation to the way in which the system can be abused. Whilst the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  is correct in saying that in some States the police can easily obtain permission to bug, particularly in South Australia, that is not so in other States. I suggest that the system is wide open to abuse. 
I return to the fundamental point raised by the honourable member for Sturt. Why is it that there is a reluctance to recognise the right of an individual not to have his private and confidential conversations not only overheard but also taped and repeated in a court of law? I am sorry to have to disagree very strongly with the view put by my colleague, the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock).  I do not know when he last appeared in a criminal trial but if he thinks that privilege between solicitor and client is as frail as he demonstrated it to be, then he has another think coming. It is not a question of who can take a technical point as to which people will not be called to give evidence but what is done to every man and woman in this country when the fear of God is put into them by the prospect of their conversations being taped when they go into a solicitor's office and are engaged in a conversation which they believe is confidential. 
Indeed. There is no such thing as parliamentary privilege in the strict legal sense. The point made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  again is correct. It is wrong that people should believe that when they are going into an area of confidentiality and privilege, unbeknownst to them, somebody might be listening into the conversation, taping it and then using the recording. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  made the very interesting point that we are inclined to think about bugs as being little microphones that one sees in James Bond movies. Those days have gone. Today one can be bugged from a quarter of a mile away, or even from half a mile away. It is not even a case of looking in the ceiling to see whether there is a little microphone. I wonder whether it is really the wish of the Government that we should put this sort of legislation on the statute book. 
I do not for one moment doubt the good faith of the Minister. I have made that abundantly clear. I do not doubt the good faith of the judge who will issue the warrant, but what I do say is that an examination of section 219G (3) reveals how wide its provisions can go. It can cover any trial of any person in this country for any offence for which that person could receive a sentence of 3 years imprisonment. I suggest that that provision will cut away the rights of thousands of citizens in States in Australia which are not prepared to use bugging devices as a means of investigation. In Tasmania on a completely bipartisan basis there has been a refusal to permit unlimited and unrestricted telephone bugging for the purpose of apprehending those who commit crimes or offences in our State. I am sad to say that in South Australia this can be done fairly easily. In New South Wales it can be done with the authority of the Commissioner of Police. 
I put forward a plea for those people in the States who at the moment are not restricted and who are not placed in the position of having their privacy invaded. Under the Commonwealth Constitution, Commonwealth Acts take precedence over State Acts. That is the point that should not be ignored by people who believe in the federal system. Once this legislation goes on to the statute book, by virtue of the Constitution, it will take precedence over any other State Act. To the extent that that State Act would be inconsistent with this legislation, it would be invalid. I wonder whether people realise the implications of this. If a State Government could not get this sort of legislation through its own State parliament or for political reasons did not want to - 
-Exactly; in cahoots with the Commonwealth, if it was of the same political colour, or by using the agency operation, that State would be able to get the benefit of this legislation. I believe that there are three elements which ought to be considered in relation to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Sturt. First of all, there is the question of the right to listen in. In relation to the disgraceful trafficking in drugs, most honourable members have taken the view that there should be a right to listen in. So, we stop at that point. What is the next point? It is that there should be a right to record. As the honourable member for Sturt pointed out so eloquently, all sorts of innocent and irrelevant things might be recorded. Innocent people might become involved. Then we come to the third proposition, which is the nub of this clause, that evidence about the matter will be given in a court of law. 
I say here and now that anybody who says that this will not damage seriously and, I believe, irretrievably the traditional privileged relationship between citizen and solicitor in this country has not looked carefully at the implications. On this point I find myself in total agreement with the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. Quite frankly, what he has said on this point is irrefutable. It goes to the whole question of the right of the citizen in this country in absolute privacy to obtain advice on matters which might affect his or her liberty for many years or for the rest of his or her natural life. 
Much as I hate, loathe and detest those involved in drug trafficking, I cannot believe that by passing this legislation in its present form we will be acting in a manner which is commensurate with our united views on an individual's right to privacy. The amendment moved by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs reasserts to some extent the provisions already contained in the clause; that is, the overriding discretion of the trial judge to exclude evidence which in his view has been obtained unfairly. But there may be judges who take the view: 'Well, the evidence has been obtained; let it go in '. I do not believe that it is the wish of ordinary men and women that special power given in relation to narcotics should be broadened to deal with matters involving SP bookmaking, drunken driving - 
The honourable member keeps on saying 'murder'. Earlier in the debate I conceded the point that if someone hears that somebody is going to commit a murder, that information should be communicated to the State authorities. There is no question at all on that. The honourable member for Port Adelaide raised an interesting point about homosexual relationships, because in those States which have a criminal code the maximum penalty for that offence is life imprisonment. So we might be looking at telephone bugging not only in regard to relationships between husband and wife but also in regard to other actions totally unconnected with narcotics. I believe that there are ample grounds for the amendment moved by the honourable member for Sturt to be considered very carefully before the legislation goes further and for the Government to consider a limitation on a power which, in essence, should be restricted totally to narcotics and drug traffickers. They are the people we want to catch, not the other people. 
-I seek leave of the House to move two amendments together. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
. That the following amendment be made to the Bill: Clause 1 3, page 1 7, line 7, omit 'shall ', substitute 'may '. 
That the following amendment be made to the Bill: Clause 13, page 17, lines 10-12, omit 'unless it is established to the satisfaction of the Court that the narcotic goods were not imported into Australia or were not imported into Australia in contravention of this Act '. 
The purpose of the amendments is to effect the evidentiary provisions as laid down in what will be section 243B of the Act. I think that on this matter there ought to be bipartisan support in respect to my amendments. I certainly hope that there is. To understand the import of the amendment we have to go back to the provisions in relation to pecuniary penalty. If honourable members look at what will become section 243 B, they will see that it states: 
The Minister or the Comptroller may institute a proceeding in the court, on behalf of the Commonwealth for an order that a person pay a pecuniary penalty to the Commonwealth in respect of 
a particular prescribed narcotics dealing engaged in by him; or 
prescribed narcotics dealings engaged in by him during a particular period. 
The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  will be very interested to know that this is not a procedure for confiscation of property after conviction; it is in lieu of conviction. It is a proceeding to be instituted by the Minister or the Comptroller to claim money from somebody who is alleged to have done something when he has not been prosecuted. It is unique. I repeat, it is unique to the law of the Commonwealth and it is certainly quasi-criminal in its nature. Proposed section 243D gives powers to the prosecutor which are stronger than anything I have ever seen in an Australian Act of parliament or a State Act of parliament. They are, frankly, too strong for our system of justice because they contain two provisions. The first part of proposed section 243D contains a deeming provision and a mandatory one at that. Who would ever have thought we would have seen in a Commonwealth Act these words: 
. the Court shall, for the purposes of the proceedings, treat the narcotic goods as narcotic goods which have been imported into Australia in contravention of this Act. 
It is a deeming provision and a mandatory one. Then it goes on to say:   . . unless it is established to the satisfaction of the Court that the narcotic goods were not imported into Australia or were not imported into Australia in contravention of this Act. 
When the unfortunate man who has these proceedings brought against him goes into court, he is not charged with a criminal offence where his guilt would have to be proved beyond reasonable doubt. He is proceeded against by way of a proceeding instituted by the Minister or the Comptroller. When he walks into the court the judge is told under this proposed Act of parliament, 'You are to treat those goods as narcotics goods which have been imported into Australia in contravention of this Act, unless the poor citizen can prove his innocence on the balance of probabilities'. The golden thread of the English law is that a man is presumed to be innocent until his guilt is proven beyond reasonable doubt. 
If this is the rule in relation to locking up people, it ought to be the rule in relation to taking away their property. It ought to be the same rule. What is the difference between locking up a man for six months and taking $50,000 worth of property from him? The onus of proof is put here on a man who is trying to protect his property. I would have said- again the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  will know the provisions to which I refer because they appear in practically every State criminal code or crimes Act- that there is usually a power now for a judge, following conviction, to make an order either for payment of damages or for confiscation of property. But this is something quite alien to our law. It is certainly contrary to basic liberal philosophy and I challenge any honourable member of the House to point out to me a provision of this nature in any Commonwealth or State Act. Provisions of this kind may be found in the Acts of certain countries behind the Iron Curtain, or in certain European jurisdictions- 
Yes, they may very well be found there too. They will be found in certain jurisdictions where people have to prove their innocence. I appeal as strongly as I can to the House and to the Minister to accept my amendment. What is the effect of my amendment? Firstly, it takes out 'shall' and inserts the word may', which allows the judge to decide. If the judge considers it good enough to treat the goods as imported, contrary to the provisions of the Act, that is good enough for me. 
-Exactly, but it gives the judge the discretion to decide whether he will draw that inference. Secondly, the burden of proof is taken away from the man whose property will undoubtedly be seized if this application is upheld. My amendment is to insert the word may' in lieu of the word 'shall', and to remove the iniquitious words:   . . unless it is established to the satisfaction of the Court that the narcotic goods were not imported into Australia or were not imported into Australia in contravention of this Act. 
Nobody in this debate, thank heavens, has accused anybody who has raised these points of being a supporter of drug traffickers, and so on. I appeal to the House to accept this amendment and to leave the matter to the discretion of the judge. Give the judge that discretion. If the judge says: 'Yes, I am prepared to use section 343D', I think that is fair enough because it is the judge making the decision. But if this provision is left in, I believe a provision is being placed in the statute books which is alien to our law, alien to the rights of every Australian, and places at risk the property of people who might very well be innocent but who cannot prove it. 
I repeat, the golden thread of the English law is presumption of innocence. I know my colleague from Hunter will agree with me on this. I have in the past, and I will in the future, fight any man who wants the law of this country changed so that people have to prove their innocence. That is not the law, thank heavens. The police have never asked for the law to be changed. The principle of innocence and proof beyond reasonable doubt is crystal clear and here we are proposing to take away a man's property, which may very well bankrupt him and disgrace him, because the onus of proof is put on to him. I do hope that on reflection the Government will be prepared to accept the amendments. If not, I hope that members of goodwill on both sides of the House will accept that this provision as it is drawn is too strong, is alien to our customs, is contrary to the rights of Australia, and ought to be rejected. 
With the greatest of respect, I take the strongest exception to whoever wrote the words which the Minister for business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  has just read out. Nobody in this Parliament wants to see the back-room boys go free, but there are people in this Parliament who react very strongly to a reversal of the onus of proof. I do not attack the Minister personally, but who ever wrote those words ought to be hung, drawn and quartered because that was the first time in this debate that anybody has imputed to a member that he was motivated by an amendment which would have the practical effect of letting the back-room boys go free. I am sorry, but I take a very strong attitude in relation to that. 
Secondly, I suggest that the advice given to the Minister is wrong. I am sorry if that puts me in conflict with a learned counsel representing the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs and advising the Minister. But, with the greatest of respect to advisers, heaven forbid that because a contrary opinion is expressed we in this House should accept that opinion without question. 
I take a contrary view to the advice given to the Minister. Again I ask: Why is the Government frightened to leave it to a judge to make the decision. That is the effect of this amendment. The Minister said that it is central to the thinking of the Government that this clause go through. As the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  has said- although I did not mention it specifically, the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  also picked it up- a very important constitutional question is involved in this section of the Bill because if this provision goes out the window, if the High Court of Australia were to hold it to be unconstitutional, the whole of the legislation goes out, lock, stock and barrel. 
People might ask afterwards why this debate carried on and why lawyers pedantically dragged this debate on. We are talking about the confiscation of property of Australian citizens. It is confiscation, not following conviction, but confiscation of property in lieu of conviction. As the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  said on an earlier occasion when we discussed this and would say if he were here tonight, if a conviction cannot be gained proceedings for a pecuniary penalty will be brought. It is completely wrong. It is an insult to the courts to say that: 
. the Court shall, for the purposes  of  the proceeding, treat the narcotic goods as narcotic goods which have been imported into Australia in contravention of this Act . . . 
It is like saying to a judge of the Federal Court of Australia: 'We are not going to leave it up to you to make up your mind on the individual facts'. As the honourable member for Prospect has said, the question cannot even be raised. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  has also made the point. 
Look, this provision will go through here on the numbers. I certainly would not detain the House with a division when the result is a foregone conclusion. But it is a matter of profound regret to me that a government of Liberal persuasion and Liberal philosophy brings in a provision which puts the judges of the courts of Australia into a straightjacket by saying: 'You shall do it'- not that they may, but they shalland puts the onus of proof onto the man whose property is to be assessed. Without any offence to Opposition members I could believe this type of provision coming from a socialist government. I frankly cannot believe it coming from a government of our political persuasion. If the matter cannot be put right in this place, let me say here and now that I only wish that former  Senator Sir Reginald  White was still in the Senate. If he was, members would hear one of the greatest debates they could ever hear. 
I repeat that I am opposed to this provision. It is confiscatory of property. It is probably unconstitutional. It puts the judges of the courts into straightjackets by telling them what they shall do, not what they may do. Last but not least, it puts the onus of proof on the poor individual to save his property and to escape pecuniary penalty. It makes that individual prove his innocence. I think it is alien to this country, unAustralian and certainly anti-Liberal. 
Amendments negatived. 
-It is somewhat unfortunate that the chronological order of amendments was such that the statement by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  in opposition to the amendment of the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  was not made at the time my amendment was being defeated because nobody has yet disputed that proposed new section 243E- indeed all the proceedings commenced under proposed new section 243B- are quasi criminal. They are quasi criminal. The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  has been misadvised on one point because he is assuming that this applies to proceedings following conviction. The point I have made very clearly is that these proceedings are in lieu of conviction. There is a world of difference. 
It is quite obvious that the Minister has recognised at least part of the validity of the submission by the right honourable member for Lowe because he says that the effect of the amendment to be moved is to leave it to the court to determine the standard of proof to be advised. That is exactly what I was asking him to do in relation to the previous amendment- to leave it to the court. My request was not accepted. I find some difficulty in understanding the logical nexus as to why in proposed new section 243E the Minister was not prepared to leave it to the judge but in proposed new section 243D he said that the Government wants to leave it to the judge. Having made that point, I invite the Minister's advisers to get him out of that one. Whilst the Minister's amendment is an improvement, it still does not fit the Bill. The right honourable member for Lowe's amendment is the only one which could be supported by anybody who believes that the burden of proof in quasi criminal matters should be proof beyond reasonable doubt. Therefore, I find not only that the Government has been quite inconsistent in relation to two provisions, one after the other, but also that it is cutting across the basic principle of the law, the basic right of the individual and a fundamental pillar of Liberal philosophy. 
Amendment negatived. 
With some reluctance I support the amendment, but I do so far from happily. I want to place on record my respectful submission that this amendment may very well be unconstitutional. In fact, basically is changes what has been the common law and the law of this Commonwealth for centuries. Last but not least, I believe it to be completely contrary to Liberal philosophy. Nevertheless, I support it as the lesser of two evils. I hope that before the Bill goes to the Senate this provision will be looked at again lest we as a Parliament find ourselves in the situation of not only having broken faith but also having put on the statute book something which involves a clear breach of the Commonwealth Constitution in relation to the confiscation of property without payment of compensation. 
Clause 1 3, as further amended, agreed to. 
-As a Catholic and as an Australian, and proud of both attributes, I rise to record the strongest possible protest against the actions of the Soviet puppet Government in Poland in brutally cracking down on the citizens of Poland in preparation for the visit this weekend of His Holiness Pope John Paul II to the land of his binh. All members of the Parliament will deplore and condemn the continuing persecution of both Christians and Jews in Poland. All Christians and Jews in Australia will, in solidarity with their brothers and sisters in Poland, fervently pray that the church will be liberated from Soviet oppression and will triumphantly rise again in peace and freedom. On 8 May it was the 900th anniversary of St Stanislaus, the Patron Saint of Poland and Archbishop of Cracow. As such he was a predecessor to Cardinal Wojtyla now Pope John Paul II. In preparation for the visit of Pope John Paul II to Poland this weekend the Soviet puppet Government has engaged in a deliberate campaign of persecution of those who are looking forward to that visit. I shall read from two news reports. The first is from the British Broadcasting Corporation. It states: 
Polish police have raided the homes of several dissidents confiscating poster and photographs of Pope John Paul the second who's due to visit Poland in the next few days. 
A spokesman for a committee of dissidents released details of the raids. 
He said one dissident had been sent to a psychiatric ward after being detained by police while collecting signatures on a petition asking for full television coverage of the Pope's visit. 
Upon making further inquiries, I can now indicate that the person who was arrested is known and is named. His name is Miroslaw Kimnes. He was arrested in Bukowie which is near Lodz. He was collecting signatures for a petition urging the Government of Poland- the Soviet puppet Government- to allow a full television coverage of the Pope's visit. For this he was sent to a psychiatric ward. In the same area a local Catholic priest was arrested and detained for four hours. A poster of the Pope holding a child was confiscated from Henryk Wujek. The Polish Government has now said, despite these arrests, that it will televise an open air mass and two other events. An article in the  Daily Telegraph  in London under the headline: 'Police swoop to prepare for Pope 'states: 
Police have raided the homes of dissidents throughout Poland, confiscating posters and photographs of Pope John Paul II, according to die civil rights movement in Warsaw. 
The Pope is due to arrive in Poland on Saturday for a seven-day visit, the first papal visit to a communist country. 
One raid took place in  Radom,  central Poland, where police detained the local vicar for four hours . . . Only cars with official permits will be allowed into the capital while the Pope is there. 
I believe that all Christians in this country, all Australians and all who love freedom will condemn out of hand the actions of the Soviet puppet Government in Poland after accepting an invitation for the Pope to visit its country. It is the greatest act of hypocrisy. We understand why the Government has moved the visit back from 8 May being the 900th anniversary of St Stanislaus. But having said that the visit will go ahead, for people to be detained, placed in psychiatric wards and to have posters and photographs confiscated shows what a hypocritical and brutal government there is in Poland. I believe that all members of this House, regardless of their party political affiliations will strongly condemn what has been done in Poland in preparation for the Pope's visit. 
-The schizophrenic paranoia of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  was well revealed in that speech, and I might say in passing that he must be the only man in the Parliament who can look over both shoulders at once. Despite the fact that he started by praising  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Fox, who was appointed to the bench by the Government of which the Leader of the Opposition was a member and a senior Minister, he then referred to  Mr Justice  Fox as the man with the gold-plated airline ticket, the jet-setting front man. Those denigratory remarks can be regarded only as an attack upon  Mr Justice  Fox and an endeavour to reduce the influence and authority of  Mr Justice  Fox when he represents this country around the world. When  Hansard  is read by people in other parts of the world, as no doubt it will be, I hope they will put out of their minds the ravings tonight of the Leader of the Opposition and the fact that he saw fit to describe a man who was appointed to the bench by the Government of which he was a senior Minister as having a gold-plated airline ticket. Of course, the second thing the Leader of the Opposition did, and we are used to this sort of thing, was to speak about everything except the precise provisions of the Bill. In fact, he knows so little about what is going on in this Parliament that he appeared to be completely unaware that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  (Senator Button)  has a question on the Question Paper relating to the cost of  Mr Justice  Fox's operations. This question is a detailed one and a reply is about to be presented by the Government in response to it. But I should draw to the attention of the Leader of the Opposition that his own  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate only asked a question on 28 May. So, if the Opposition was so concerned about it - 
Only on 28 May this year. 
-Only one week ago. So, if the Opposition is so concerned about  Mr Justice  Fox and if what the Leader of the Opposition has said tonight has any truth and substance in it, why was it that it was not raised until one week ago and then not in this House but in another place? This reveals the absolute cant, hypocrisy and shallowness of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition tonight. I have just been handed the proposed new clause which is to be moved by the Opposition; it has now been circulated. Whilst I cannot speak to the details on it, I can at least point out that if this amendment were to be agreed to, it would have the effect of fettering the continuing operations of  His  Honour,  Mr Justice  Fox, as Australia's Ambassador-at-Large. 
There was so little substance in the Leader of the Opposition's speech. I repeat that he is the only man in the Parliament who is able to look over both shoulders at once, looking over one shoulder for Bob Hawke and over the other shoulder for Ken Wriedt. He will not see either. It would be a waste of the time of the Parliament and an absolute insult to the intelligence of the people listening to this broadcast to give any further dignity to the speech of the Leader of the Opposition. It was one of his most disgraceful speeches. It is only in keeping with the standard that we have come to expect from the Leader of the Opposition who, of course, has become known in Canberra as '  Mr Eighty  Cents ' because of his plan to tax the taxpayers of Australia at the rate of 80c in the dollar. 
The amendment foreshadowed by the Opposition has no substance in it. The man with the windmill arm over there- we never know whether he is Tom Thumb or Tom Uren- is swinging his arm around and is obviously out for a night on the punch. The Leader of the Opposition did no credit to himself or his Party by making a snide and behind-the-back attack on Australia's Ambassador-at-Large, a judge appointed by the Whitlam Government. He made this attack when the man was out of the country and could not defend himself. I believe that the Leader of the Opposition should be censured and condemned for the despicable act which he performed tonight. 
-I regretand I believe the Government and the majority of members of this Parliament would regretthat in the concluding minutes of his address the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  saw fit to make critical comments with respect to the appointment made by the Commonwealth, an appointment which is now accepted. I would have thought- recognising the realities of life - that it is not the best way to launch a new venture for the Opposition spokesman to persist in this extraordinary attack on the appointment of  Sir Colin  Woods. I feel that the Opposition showed itself up in a somewhat petty light when dealing with this subject. The Government's main objective was to obtain the best person available for the establishment of the new Australian Federal Police Force. Whether that person came from Australia, the United Kingdom, Canada or any other part of the world, I believe the Government was duty bound to appoint the best person available. Contrary to the comments made by the honourable member for Melbourne who preceded me in this debate, I have not heard one word of complaint from a serving officer of the Commonwealth Police Force or the Australian Capital Territory Police Force with respect to the appointment of  Sir Colin  Woods. I have not heard one complaint. 
The honourable member makes an insulting comment. He might be interested to know- and if he want to behave like a ratbag, that is his right- that I have acted for a large number of police officers who quite happily trusted me. Indeed, I was honorary legal adviser to police associations when the honourable member was not even a member of this Parliament. The point I am making is a substantive one, that it does nothing to the credit of the honourable member for Melbourne that he can stand in this Parliament and say the sorts of things that he said a moment ago about  Sir Colin  Woods. If the honourable member is challenging the integrity and ability of  Sir Colin  Woods, I would be interested to hear the basis for his charges. What the honourable member has done is to scream 'colonialism'. He has smeared a man who has been appointed to be the initial Commissioner of the Australian Federal Police Force. I think it is a matter of great regret that the speech which the honourable member delivered, which was not a bad speech, was completely marred by the fact that he behaved like a larrikin in his concluding remarks and attacked the appointment of  Sir Colin  Woods. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport and relates to developments in the proposed direct air link between Tasmania and New Zealand. Can the Minister inform the House of the progress being made in the negotiations between the Australian Government, the New Zealand Government and the Australian domestic airline operators, Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines, with respect to the proposed establishment of a direct air passenger service between Hobart, Tasmania and Christchurch, New Zealand? 
In view of certain dire predictions circulating in Tasmania a few weeks ago, is the Prime Minister now free to confirm that each and every one of last night's Budget measures for Tasmania was decided and indeed locked up weeks before  Mr Lowe  called his recent phoney snap election? 
-As a member in this House representing Australia's smallest but most beautiful State I rise with some gratitude on behalf of Tasmanians to thank the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  who is at the table, and the Government for the most magnificent deal handed out to our State in last night's Budget. I assure the Treasurer and all other honourable members that it has been received with very great enthusiasm in our State. If anything, the Treasurer may have overplayed his hand. The Budget has been received so well that those in Tasmania who are really in the know are now publicly suggesting that the Premier of our State had advance knowledge as to how good the 
Budget would be for Tasmania and that that was the reason he called his phoney snap election weeks before the Budget was brought down. He knew very well that the effect of the Budget would be such that his chances of electoral success would be diminished. 
Whilst it is fair to say that the Budget is good for pensioners, ex-service men and women, Aboriginals, wage earners and business, above all it is especially good for Tasmania. I point with considerable pride to page 16 of the Treasurer's speech. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! In the adjournment debate the honourable member for Denison may make passing reference to the Budget consistent with his introductory remarks but he cannot anticipate debate on a matter on the Notice Paper. 
I will not do so. I am pointing with pride to page 1 6 of the Budget Speech. 
-These Bills were introduced into this House on 22 May 1979. Last night the somewhat unusual situation arose where two Government speakers, the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  and the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu),  followed each other in the debate. At that time  Her  Majesty's Opposition was not represented in the debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)There is no point of order; it is a point of debate. 
-Before I was interrupted by the honourable member for Shortland I was about to say that I welcome the contribution tonight of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  As he correctly said, these Bills open up a completely new vista in relation to navigation in this country for an industry which I believe will go from strength to strength. Very few people realise that already today in Australia ships carry over 50 per cent of our national cargo but account for only 8 per cent of national fuel consumption. I predict- others who are better informed on the energy crisis will appreciatethat the two modes of transportation which will come back in a very big way in this country towards the end of this century and certainly in the twenty-first century are sea transport and rail transport. Having said that, I pay a compliment to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  who is at the table. Once again the Minister has tackled a task well. He has presented Bills which in their enormity are such that I wonder how he was ever able to get them to the barrier. 
As the honourable member said, he was able to do this in between his efforts to assist the establishment of a direct air link between Tasmania and New Zealand. The people listening to the broadcast should know that, the Minister has produced a Navigation Amendment Bill which contains 305 pages, 1 1 1 clauses and ten schedules. The Bill updates and changes law which has operated in this country since 1 894. If that is not a herculean task performed with extraordinary skill and ability by the Minister I do not know what is. I believe that all members of this House and all those connected with the industry would wish to place on record their gratitude to the Minister for the magnificant way in which he has tackled the task and for the legislation he has brought before the Parliament. This Navigation Amendment Bill moves the industry at last into the twentieth century. I repeat that in relation to certain provisions it changes laws such as the Merchant Shipping Acts of 1 894 and 1900- not of this Parliament but of the United Kingdom- which have been the law in this country since Federation. The Minister at last has brought Australian shipping law into the twentieth century. It is Australian shipping law, not United Kingdom shipping law. 
Having made those points, I want to refer specifically to the five conventions which are now adopted. Even though the honourable member for Hughes referred to them I wish to refer to them again because there are matters I wish to raise, in particular the manner in which this legislation has come forward. It is a classic example of co-operative federalism, of how we can change laws and bring in a completely new method in a federal system such as we have in Australia if we co-operate. We cannot succeed if we adopt the centralist policies which were rampant in this country from 1972 to 1975. Had the Minister tried to use that approach he would have failed. He has succeeded because he recognises that we have a federal system in this country and he was prepared to operate on that basis, not as a centralist, not as somebody who thinks that Canberra is the font of all wisdom in this country and that anything that is right in Canberra is right for the rest of Australia. 
I come from- as does my colleague, the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)Australia's  only island State. As the former Attorney-General,  Mr Enderby,  once said: 'Tasmania is an island completely surrounded by water'. That is one of the classic statements of the former Attorney-General in the Whitlam Government. I mention in passing, but it is a fact, that the busiest seaway in Australia is Bass Strait. I could cite the necessary authorities. Bass Strait is not nearly as busy as the Straits of Dover. I make the point that navigation legislation cannot operate in a country such as Australia unless it is approached on the basis of co-operative federalism. Albeit very briefly, on a recent occasion when I was in Canada I had the opportunity of discussing this matter in one of the Atlantic states, namely, Nova Scotia. If we operate on a federalist basis we will be successful but if we adopt the 1972 to 1975 centralist policies of the previous administration we will get disaster. 
The first international convention which is imported into the mercantile law of Australia is the International Convention on the Limitation of Liability of Owners of Sea-going Ships, 1 957. Whilst that convention is dated 1957, it came into force internationally in 1968. But the relevant law in Australia up until the passage of this legislation still consists of the Merchant Shipping Acts of 1894 and 1900 of the United Kingdom. The limits set in those laws are interesting to look back on. To say that they are horse and buggy provisions would be to flatter them. The low limits provide compensation of $28 a ton for personal claims and $15 a ton for property claims. These limits are to be raised to more realistic limits equivalent to the convention limits, namely, $179 and $57 a ton respectively at present. The second convention which is incorporated as a result of the passage of the Navigation Bill is the Convention on the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea, 1972. This is interesting to all seamen. I am sorry that the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  is not present. Just before the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  left the chamber he reminded me of an amusing incident in which the honourable member for Newcastle apparently fell out of his own boat. The honourable member for Newcastle would be pleased to know that the new 'rules of the road' for ships on the high seas and in all connected waters navigable by seagoing vessels are now the law in Australia. Those who were involved in the naval cadets- green to green, red to red, perfect safety, go ahead- have to go back to look at the new rules because the new 'rules of the road ' are somewhat different. 
There have been a number of collisions. Indeed, these international regulations came into operation in 1977. They were incorporated in Commonwealth and State regulations. They are currently observed in practice but the convention had not been acceded to because the Commonwealth and State Acts under which the regulations are made do not enable the regulations to be applied to all the vessels covered by the convention. The passage of the Navigation Amendment Bill will correct that anomaly. It is not a legalism; it is a genuine and serious anomaly which is now to be corrected, thanks to the hard work and dedication of the Minister for Transport. I commend to all those who go to sea to make sure that they know what are the new rules of the road' because if they do not, what happened to the honourable member for Newcastle might happen to them. 
The third convention is the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974. This convention is known as the SOLAS Convention. It consolidates and supersedes the 1960 convention of that name that was amended in 1974 and an amending protocol was added last year. Again the law has been consolidated. There can be nothing more pre-eminent in the mind of anybody connected with government than to ensure that we have a convention which does as much as can be done to prevent the loss of life from collisions at sea. If one looks back at history one is interested to find that there was no convention dealing with collisions at sea prior to the loss of the  Titanic  in 1912. 1 believe that it is an incredible reflection on humanity that as we move into the 1980s men and women are still losing their lives as a result of collisions at sea. The Convention adopted now, including the 1978 protocol, is a substantive convention. I hope it will continue to be reviewed. We should try to reduce this loss of life. One sees from the road death figures a dramatic reduction in certain States in Australia. If we can cut down deaths at sea it will be one sure way to benefit mankind. 
It is incredible to me, as it is to many other people, that two ships in an enormous ocean can come into collision, just as it is incredible that two aeroplanes flying in the air can come into collision. One wonders how these collisions can possibly happen, yet they do. The fourth convention dealt with in the Navigation Amendment Bill is the International Convention for Safe Containers. It simply deals with containers other than containers used in the air, quite obviously; nevertheless one has to make the point. The fifth convention is the International Convention on Tonnage Measurement of Ships which simply has the effect of introducing a universally acceptable system for the tonnage measurement of ships, by volume of interior spaces, in place of a number of other systems which previously had had international adherents. 
I again want to make the point that the success of this legislation is due in no small order to the fact that the task was approached on a Federal basis. In relation to the first four of the conventions to which I have referred, the States have been given specific power, by virtue of saving clauses, to opt out or to legislate differently if their State circumstances so require. I cannot overemphasise my joy, as a member of the Federal Affairs Committee- I know that if the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  was in the chamber he would say the same thingthat in relation to this legislation the States have been given the right to tailor the situation to meet their own circumstances. As a matter of interest, for the purposes of this legislation the Northern Territory is treated as if it were a State. That is a wise move because undoubtedly it will be a State. 
The other Bills being dealt with in this cognate debate are supplementary, in effect, to the Navigation Amendment Bill but one could not conclude one's remarks on this legislation without a reference to one of the most excellent reports, I believe, that has ever emanated from this House. I refer to the report headed 'Oil Spills Prevention and Control of Oil Pollution in the Marine Environment'. It is the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, dated September 1978. There are three recommendations in this report to which I wish to refer. For the benefit of people listening to the debate I point out that this is a joint parliamentary report. The Committee is chaired by the  Deputy  Whip, the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges).  The  Deputy Chairman  is the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  Often when honourable members speak about parliamentary committee reports they neglect to mention the composition of the committee. The Committee which presented this report was composed of members of all parties- Liberal, Labor and National Country. It is a joint report of considerable eminence. The first recommendation of that Committee reads: 
The Committee recommends that: 
The Australian Maritime College - 
As the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  said, it is being built in Tasmania, which is very much to the credit of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)- 
. give priority to the introduction of comprehensive training courses in tanker safety; 
I give full credit to the Labor Government for thinking that the Maritime College should be in Tasmania. I also give the Labor Government full credit for thinking that the Antarctic Base should be in Tasmania. But the difference between a Labor government and this Government is that whilst Labor promised these establishments we took action to build them. One has only to look at the Budget Papers to see the appropriation for the College- 6.3 million beautiful dollars are to be spent on the Antarctic Base in the electorate of Denison. I give the Labor Party credit for thinking of them and for promising them - 
-The honourable member for Hughes said it did and I believed him. Have I been taken again? 
-The honourable member for Hughes does this to me all the time. If Labor did not think of it I take back everything I have said. The fact of the matter is that our Government - 
-Of course, it was the Minister for Transport. I apologise to him. I am sorry that in a moment of aberration I accepted what the honourable member for Hughes said when he told us- it apparently turns out to be a cockandbull story- that Labor thought of it. In any event, the Maritime College and the Antarctic Base are being built by the present Federal Government. Everybody in Tasmania knows that and nobody can take the credit away from the Government. 
As I turn to paragraph 44 of the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, I see the honourable member for Hughes fleeing from the chamber. The Committee recommended: 
. The Australian Maritime College give priority to the introduction of comprehensive training courses in tanker safety; 
I think that the next paragraph is illuminating. It states: the relationship between safety precautions and oil pollution prevention is obvious. Draft legislation will soon be introduced to implement - 
This is the very Bill to which I have been speaking-  . . the provisions of the 1974 Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) Convention. The Committee stresses the importance of Australia 's ratification of this Convention. 
There is no finer place in Australia for tanker safety instruction to be given than Tasmania and, in particular, at the Maritime College. I repeat: It is of great credit to the Minister for National Development, who, although he did not think of it, is responsible for building the College. It is also of great credit to the Minister for Transport who thought of it. 
The next matter to which I wish to refer in this excellent report is contained in recommendation 7 which states: the Commonwealth Government increase the funds available for hydrography work in Australian coastal waters to hasten the upgrading of navigation charts; 
Paragraph 77 of the report provided me with some information which I feel I ought to draw to the attention of the House and to the people of Australia because I think it is important. The report refers to the fact that only 35 per cent of Australian coastal waters is adequately or temporarily adequately surveyed. The remaining 65 per cent is unsurveyed. The report says that the need for additional survey work is becoming more critical as the size of ships increases. In the report an adequate survey is defined as a survey line spacing of less than 125 metres and a temporarily adequate survey has line spacing of between 125 metres and 250 metres. The fact of the matter is that in 1970 the  Oceanic Grandeur  hit a rock in the Torres Strait that had been incorrectly charted. I believe that it is incredible that in 1975 only 35 per cent of Australian coastal waters is adequately or temporarily adequately surveyed. I know that the Minister for Transport places very great store on the strength of the Committee and the recommendations it made. But I believe that all Australians would support an increased commitment for hydrographic work in this country. I hope that it will not be very long before those survey percentages will be reversed. The sooner we have 100 per cent of Australian coastal waters adequately surveyed the better it will be for the safety of the thousands of Australian men and women who sail upon our coastal waters. 
The last matter to which I wish to refer in this report, which, as I have indicated, is intimately connected with the legislation, relates to recommendation 1 1. It reads: 
The Commonwealth Government encourage State Governments to amend their legislation to increase penalties for oil pollution of the sea; 
This is contained in paragraph 104 of the report. I welcome into the chamber the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  who, of course, also is a Tasmanian and is actually responsible for the building of the Maritime College and the Antarctic Base. It is to his credit that the building of these facilities is occurring so quickly. I am concerned to hear- I state this rhetorically because I hope that it is not a fact- that the State of Tasmania apparently has not yet enacted legislation to increase penalties for oil pollution of the sea. I hope that this information is not correct. I believe that other States have acted and have increased their penalties. I ask the Minister for Transport to find out whether this is correct. If Australia's island State is not prepared to legislate to increase penalties for oil pollution at sea, I believe that we have come to a very sorry state of affairs. I repeat, that I hope the information which was given to me, originally in confidence but then with authority to mention it in the House, is not correct. But if the factual situation is that Tasmania is dragging its feet on the question of oil pollution, I believe that that reflects great discredit on the State Labor Government and I hope that somebody in the Legislative Council or the Opposition under the new Leader,  Mr Pearson,  will do something to wake up the Tasmanian Government and get it on the job because of all people we in Tasmania should appreciate that our waters must be pollution free. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  shall second: 
That the House notes the 40th Anniversary of the signing of the infamous Ribbentrop-Molotov Treaty in Moscow on the night of 23-24 August 1939 as a vital prelude to the commencement of World War II, and recalls with regret that notwithstanding the defeat of Nazi Germany in 1945 the Soviet Union continues to enjoy the rights guaranteed to it by the said Treaty, involving the enslavement of many independent nations and over 250 million citizens of Central and Eastern Europe. 
And you are a communist. 
-The Budget of 21 August 1979 is a workmanlike and realistic document. It is modest, and sensible, but above all it is humane. It lays down an economic framework to continue the task of restoring the economy of Australia from the ravages of three years we sustained when the greatest bunch of economic vandals ever to get hold of the treasury bench were in office in this country. It is in marked contrast to the incredible diatribe, the rhetorical outburst of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  in this House last night when, instead of putting forward any sort of alternative economic proposals, he engaged in one of the most scurrilous and unworthy abusive attacks that I have ever heard in Parliament. He made not one single constructive suggestion. 
Before I deal with the speech made by the Leader of the Opposition may I take the time to remind the House of one of the pearls that fell from his lips when he was on his feet last night. I think the people of Australia will remember this for many years to come. The Leader of the Opposition said: 
When I was much younger, my mother caught me walloping a donkey on the hind quarters just to see it keep braying and bucking. She warned me that one day it would come back to haunt me but I rind now that about 80 per cent of them have come back to haunt me. 
That is the confession of the only publicly admitted donkey walloper in the Australian Parliament. Whilst I know something about the Tasmanian criminal code I am going to have a very good look at the Queensland criminal code to see under which section this self-confessed donkey walloper could be indicted. What an incredible statement for the alternative Prime Minister of Australia to put forward. I wonder how many people must have thought they were listening to the 'Goon Show' last night when  Mr Hayden  admitted that he was a donkey walloper. The more one thinks about it, the possibilities of donkey walloping, as is evidenced by the Leader of the Opposition, are absolutely incredible. We all know he has his funny little ways. We do not talk about them in this House very much but we all know of them. But never in my wildest dreams did I think that  Mr Hayden  's favourite fetish, his prized perversion, was donkey walloping. What better way to practise donkey walloping than by joining the Australian Labor Party. In what better place could he really master the art of donkey walloping? The trouble is there do not seem to be enough of them for him to practise on. Certainly, his performance over the last few weeks has been incredible. I hope that somebody might draw to his attention the numerous services available free of charge under Medibank. Irrespective of whether such a practice may be classified as psychiatric or otherwise, I suggest that a selfconfessed donkey walloper is in need of help. 
Might I now refer to one of the prime allegations the Leader of the Opposition made against the Budget and against this Government. He accused us of being a high tax government. That is a case of the pot calling the kettle black. He was the greatest tax bandit in Australia's history when he was Treasurer under the Labor Government. The people of Australia will recall that, in three years, income tax collections in this country rose by over 46 per cent. That hit the hip pockets of every man and woman who works in this country. 
Indeed, my honourable friend from Diamond Valley reminds me it was in one year. The figures are so stupendous when one thinks that under Labor unemployment went up by 140 per cent, inflation more than trebled and tax collections skyrocketed. My word, donkey walloping at its best. Does the Leader of the Opposition for one minute think that the people of Australia are going to have a donkey walloper as Prime Minister? Only two weeks ago my friend, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  rose in his place and said- and it is recorded in  Hansard-  that he was sorry for being an idiot. I can appreciate his frankness and honesty, but would one call him a donkey walloper? Never. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  is convicted out of his own mouth. I hope that donkey lovers around Australia will take note that the man who parades himself as an alternative Prime Minister is a self-confessed donkey walloper. 
Having made those brief comments and without any malice aforethought, and despite the fact that I hope to be elected as a patron of a pet organisation in southern Tasmania with some members who care about donkeys, I am going to turn from the donkey walloper and from his performance last night. I am going to speak now on the Budget that this Government has brought down. The first and the most fundamental thing I must do as a Tasmanian, on behalf of my colleagues, the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr),  the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  and our two ministerial members, the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman)  and the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom),  is to thank the Treasurer for bringing down the best Budget that Tasmania has ever received from any Federal Government in the history of this country. The miserable people on the other side of the House are jealous. They are the smart people who called the Budget the Tasmanian Budget. They ran around the traps here saying: 'Did you get a bridge? Did you get a bridge?' I just want to say,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that what has been done for Tasmania by the present Federal Government exceeds by a mile anything that has been done for our State in 79 years of federation. It is not electoral bribery, it is a recognition of the just claims of Australia's smallest and beautiful State. 
I also want to say something about my friend the Deputy Leader of Opposition in the Senate who had the gall to say that Tasmania had been short changed. I am not referring to next year's Federal election contest for Denison which will make Denison the glamour electorate of Australia. It will be the key seat. He came out with figures that said that Tasmania had been short changed. That was wonderful until someone woke up to the fact that he had forgotten to mention freight equalisation. Do you know that Tasmanian industries have received over $62m in the last three years from this Government that has kept industry in business, has enabled expansion and has saved the jobs of thousands of thousands of Tasmanians. What did the Whitlam Government give Tasmania? It gave it a piddling- I hate using the word piddling but piddling it was- $5m one way. That is a good example of donkey walloping. It received $62m in three years from this Government. There is $25m budgeted for this year. But that is not all. 
In my own humble electorate of Denison $6.3m will be spent on that magnificent Antarctic Base at Kingston. The Labor Party said that it promised that expenditure. I do not think that matters two hoots. I do not give a damn who promised it. We are building it. People who drive down the Channel Highway, as you have,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  can see this magnificent complex. I do not care how much the Labor Party said it promised. The fact is that it is our Government which is building it. It is our Government which is going to build the $32m bridge across the Derwent. I am not going to talk about what it is going to be called, about which there is a lot of discussion. Whatever it is to be called I simply say that that second crossing across the Derwent River is something that we in Tasmania have fought for. I believe that in the other place somebody said that all this was the result of the efforts of the State Labor Government. I cannot prove that, but my colleague the honourable member for Wilmot did a little bit of finding out- not espionage- and told me that. 
I will say one thing about Labor Party members. They have a great habit of imitating each other. I stood in this House a week ago and in a question to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  I asked whether  Mr Lowe,  the Premier of Tasmania, knew that the Federal Budget was going to be so good that he decided to call a snap election and get it out of the way before the Budget came down? Members of the Muppet Show on the other side laughed their heads off. What do we find today? In today's  Canberra Times  there is an article. I invite members of the 
Labor Party to listen to this. The article refers to the forthcoming South Australian election. What does it say? It says this: 

 Mr Corcoran believes the general economic climate in Australia will from now on get better for the Federal Government . . . 

 Mr Corcoran has gone on record as saying that he believes that the general economic climate in Australia will from now on get better for the Federal Government. The article continues: and probably in some areas at the expense of State Government like South Australia 's. 
It is his calculated judgment that an especially favourable time for him will be the 13 weeks between 1 September and 1 December. 
What is going to happen on 1 December? Every income earner in Australia will be paying less tax after 1 December. In the case of the average worker that means an extra $4 to $5 a week. I want to say something else. I pay tribute to my colleague the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short)  who is an expert mathematician. Do you know what he worked out,  Mr Deputy  Speaker? I am going to go right round my electorate on 1 December and I am going to say to every worker I can: 'Do you realise that you are $20 a week better off today?' They will look at me as though I am mad, as though I am a donkey walloper like  Mr Hayden.  They will look at the Leader of the Opposition - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Earlier  I did not pull up the honourable member. Maybe I should have. When he refers to the Leader of the Opposition I suggest that he use the proper title. 
Yes, sir. I am sorry. He has admitted that he is a donkey walloper. I should have said that the Leader of the Opposition said that. 
I am going to say why they are $20 a week better off. Here is a donkey walloper. 
I would not trifle with the honourable member. We all know him, do we not?  Mr Deputy Speaker,  every worker in Australia is going to be $20 a week better off as from 1 December. Why? I will say why. They will get a $4 tax cut from the Fraser Government. If the economic vandals who were on the treasury bench from 1972 to 1975 were still in power today, and if the Hayden tax scales had continued, every average worker in Australia today would be paying $16 a week more in tax than he is paying under our tax scales. That means that, with our $4 plus the $16 we have saved the average Australian worker, he will be $20 a week better off. What son of hypocritical attitude is it when the Leader of the Opposition calls our Government a high tax government? Let us look at what he put forward on 15 March this year at the National Press Club. He laid it down. He bared his chest. He said that he would wear his heart on his sleeve and tell the people of Australia what to expect from him if he became Prime Minister. One thing he proposed which did not get a lot of publicity, but which I now condemn as a recipe for revolution in this country, and liable to bring down parliamentary democracy- I put it as high as that- was that income earners in this country should be taxed up to a maximum marginal tax rate of 80c in the dollar. I do not believe that people in Australia would accept that. 
It was 80c in the dollar. He proposes to take $200m more out of the top 2 per cent of wage earners in Australia.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I would say that you and I, being simple and humble people, would have thought: 'Well, that is not going to affect us'. The top 2 per cent of wage earners in Australia would be the millionaires. I made inquiries. Do you know who the top 2 per cent of income earners in Australia are? It is any man or woman in this country who earns more than $26,000 a year. To get $200m out of that sector of the community he would have to impose a maximum marginal tax rate of 75c to 80c in the dollar. Can you believe him when he says he will leave the standard rate at 32c in the dollar and the intermediate rate at 45c in the dollar? Can you believe him when he says he will leave them as they are? Of course not. The standard rate would jump to at least 40c in the dollar and the intermediate rate would be 55c to 60c in the dollar. He has the hide, the donkey walloping hide, to stand here and say that he is in favour of low taxes and that we are in favour of high taxes. 

 -Now, Mr Deputy Speaker, his friend is back. Was the honourable member for Chifley the donkey he walloped? 
The honourable member has let the cat out of the bag. He was one of the ones who sneaked out of the chamber while the Leader of the Opposition was speaking last night before he chose to give his confessions about his fetish of donkey walloping. If he missed out on it then I suggest that he go and have a good talk with his leader. If I were in his shoes I would not be feeling too secure. I want to come back to the point on a serious note. That 80c in the dollar is the maximum rate, 60c in the dollar is the intermediate rate and 40c in the dollar is the standard rate. That is what the people of Australia can expect if that crowd on the other side ever get back in control of this country. I believe it would mean blood in the streets. I believe that the people of Australia would not accept it. It is a recipe for revolution and it would destroy parliamentary democracy in this country. Of course people have said of the Leader of the Opposition: 'He would never get away with it'. Don't you believe that! Look at his track record. In a beguiling way last night, the Leader of the Opposition modestly confessed that the domestic budget deficit might have to go out just a little. Let us just see what he stated. He said: 
I make no apology for the fact that in committing ourselves to such a program we would support a larger domestic deficit to help fund it. 
-Yes, how much larger would it be? The honourable member for Diamond Valley, with his forensic skills, is spot on. How much? Let us look at the Leader of the Opposition's track record. The 1975 Hayden horror Budget which robbed the pensioners and the low income earners of this country started off with a Budget deficit of about $2.5 billion. If we had not got back into power and rescued Australia, that budget deficit would have been $6 billion, $7 billion or $8 billion. If the Leader of the Opposition had been a solicitor, he would have been struck off the roll and given 10 years in gaol. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)There is no point of order. The honourable member for Corio will resume his seat. It is not for the Chair to judge matters such as that. 
I am not going to get onto the capital gains tax; I am not going to get onto the retrospective taxes- I am not going to get onto all the aspects in respect of which a Labor Government would engage in the greatest taxation bushrangery that this country has ever seen. A Labor Government would make Ned Kelly look like Little Orphan Annie. We notice how from 1972 to 1975 the Labor Government used the thief of inflation to bring about its evil tax-gathering. It let inflation run high because it knew that that was the quickest, the easiest and the most surreptitious way in which to get the money out of the pensioners and the low income earners. Modest though our humanitarian gestures in this Budget are, we will be relieving half a million Australian pensioners and low income earners of paying any taxation at all. We have increased the income level for fringe benefits by 21 per cent. Let Labor match that! You let it freeze at the 1974 levels for two years just as you froze the Tertiary Education Assistance scheme allowance; yet you have the effrontery to attack us. Well, let me tell you: We have eased the means test in relation to the TEAS allowance and we have at last demonstrated that we are prepared to see that justice is done in relation to students but that money is not squandered. 
One thing that has galled me more than anything else is the absolute hypocrisy of the Labor Party with respect to pension indexation. I have to say this with complete and utter candour: If you had not carried on in the way in which you carried on in March this year, that decision might well have been reversed earlier. I make that point because you politicised an issue; you behaved with cheap political grandstanding tactics. You discredited and endeavoured to disgrace the honourable member for Franklin. You were far too interested in political point-scoring. The pensioners of Australia know that what I am saying is true and correct because there was never any doubt, in the light of the changed economic circumstances, that this Government would reverse that decision. When you go trotting along to the next pensioners' afternoon party and you expect to be welcomed with open arms, brother, you are going to be disappointed because the people who have indexed pensions are the people on this side of the House, not you. You have used pensions as a political football. 
I wish I had more time, but regrettably it is against me. I think it is about time that Australians stopped whingeing, belly-aching and grizzling. I am sick of psychopathic, schizophrenic, paranoid people whingeing and cringing in this House. Let Australia get up and get moving. We are the greatest country in the world. I have been to England and America and I can assure you that no matter what our problems are, those countries are a mile worse off than we are. Let us have a united attempt to get this country moving. We have the team; we have the leadership; and we have a fantastic back bench backing them up,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  There is more quality on this side of the House than you will ever get in a hundred years. The people of Australia are going to realise this because next year we will be re-elected and when we move into the 1980s it will be under a Liberal-National Country Party Government. Never again will you socialist economic vandals get hold of the Treasury benches from which you were so correctly dragged by the people of Australia in 1975. 
Notwithstanding a voice affliction, I rise tonight to support the proposition that Prime Ministers of Australia should be able to walk freely in the streets of this country without the risk of physical violence. In 1974 I was heard publicly as an endorsed Liberal Party candidate to condemn a cowardly and vicious attack on the then Prime Minister of Australia,  Mr Whitlam.  In Forrest Place, Perth, he was the victim of an assault by someone throwing a drink bottle which, had it hit him, could have caused serious damage. 
I now have the unhappy task of reporting to this Parliament that last week in the tranquil city of Hobart the Prime Minister of Australia  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was subject to one of the most disgraceful and cowardly physical attacks ever perpetrated against any Prime Minister of this country. I say that it is a scandal and a disgrace when a Prime Minister of this country, whether he belongs to the Liberal Party, the Labor Party, the National Country Party or any other party, cannot walk the streets of a city without being subject to what happened last week. What in fact did happen? The Prime Minister was greeted by over 100 demonstrators who were determined not just to abuse and humiliate him but also to injure him physically. As I said publicly the following day, that demonstration was politically organised and motivated to support the Australian Labor Party. In the time available to me I will show that the ALP's involvement in that demonstration in Hobart last week against the Prime Minister is provable beyond reasonable doubt. The Hobart  Mercury,  in an editorial on 4 October recounted: 
Hoban now shares with Sydney the unfortunate distinction of being a city where Australia's Prime Minister can expect to be greeted with missiles, abuse, and even spittle. The tragedy of it all is that this reputation of being a city of small-minded hooligans has been earned by only a handful of politically and emotionally spaced-out fanatics. 
But the organisers of the demonstration of which the throwers and the spitters were a pan- the Unemployed Workers Union-cannot simply dissociate themselves from the disgraceful incident and hope to emerge blameless. If they cannot control the lunatic fringe among them, they should not be in the demonstration business. 
At the forefront of that demonstration was an endorsed Labor candidate in the recent State election, a man who has been elected to the Parliament but who has not yet taken his seat because of a court challenge. Official ALP propaganda on unemployment, nuclear disarmament and the environment was handed out at that demonstration. One of the organisers of the demonstration, a representative of the Unemployed Workers Union,  Mr Paddy  Garrity, who is well known throughout Australia for his pro-ALP sympathies.  Mr Wayne  Crawford, the political editor of the  Mercury,  stated in an article on 6 October: 
When I asked one of the UWU demonstration organisers, Paddy Garrity, whether it had, in fact, been soup that spattered on the Prime Minister, he confirmed it was and added:  What Fraser doesn 't know was that1 p....d in it. ' 

 Mr Garrity was saying that the soup contained urine and that it was his urine.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in the six days that have elapsed since the demonstration the State  President  of the ALP,  Mr Leo  Brown, has not been prepared to make one public comment about it.  Mr Lowe,  the Premier of the State, said that the Unemployed Workers Union dissociated itself from violence, but he did not say that the ALP did so. He has done nothing about the ALP member elect who was in the middle of the demonstration. I have a report from  Mr McCann,  a respected citizen of Hobart who complained bitterly to  Senator Michael  Tate about the ALP's involvement in the demonstration. 
The Labor Party was behind this demonstration as it was behind the one in Sydney and as it was behind the one in Canberra last week. It is using the Unemployed Workers Union as its front for violence. Here in the chamber tonight, Labor members are not only not dissociating themselves with violence, but are also demonstrating by their attitude that they support what was done in Hobart. Shame on them and shame on their party. Any Prime Minister, whether Liberal or Labor, should be able to walk the streets of this country without fear of attack from Labor Party hooligans and thugs. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! It being11 p.m. the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until 2.15 p.m. on Tuesday next. 
because I submit that the amendment he has just moved is consequential upon the amendment to clause 7 which was defeated. They read well together. It is very difficult to see how the two could stand separately. The first amendment having been defeated, it would be an inconsistency for the second amendment to be now passed. More specifically, on this particular amendment the crucial decision is whether or not the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation should be politicised. I submit that if one creates the situation in which the Minister has the right to be informed of the existence of any- and that means all- files, dossiers or records, one immediately politicises ASIO, because there would be nothing to prevent any member of the Parliament asking the Minister questions in relation of the Parlian to the names of persons in respect of whom files, dossiers or records were kept. It would be for the Presiding Officer, whether he be the  Speaker  in this House or the  President  in another place, to say whether or not the Minister was obliged to answer those questions. 
In fairness, the Leader of the Opposition was good enough to remind the House that ASIO was established under a Labor Government under a Labor Prime Minister,  Mr Chifley.  The ASIO which we have today is, for the first time in its career, getting a statute, a code under which its powers are expressly laid down and under which the citizens of Australia can see exactly what are the powers of ASIO. I am very conscious of the fact that I have not been able to participate in this debate until now, but I find it a little hard to understand why there has been such wide criticism of this ASIO legislation when many of those making the criticism were in a position to bring in a code or a Bill with respect to ASIO between 1972 and 1975. The way in which to politicise Australia's security intelligence organisation is to place it under ministerial control, to put a Minister in the situation where he has legislative authority to obtain details in respect of every single file, dossier or record. We then will have in this country the unfortunate situation that obtains in the United States- a politicised security intelligence organisation. 
If honourable members agree to the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, they are inviting within the Parliament itself the questioning of Ministers, debates on matters of public importance and a situation in which a Minister under pressure- this will apply whether he be Liberal or Labor- might unwittingly reveal the existence of a file which might be a negative file, that is, one with no adverse criticism of a particular person. It will bring ASIO into the political arena. I would have thought from the very careful remarks in another place by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and by  Senator Button  leading for the Australian Labor Party, that it was an accepted proposition from both sides of the House that the worst thing that could happen to ASIO would be to politicise it. I respect the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, as he well knows. Had he been successful on his earlier amendment there may have been some basis for this amendment to be passed but, as the earlier amendment was not passed, it would be absolutely inconsistent to pass this amendment. More importantly it would politicise in a most important area of its operation the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation upon which the national security of Australia depends. I believe that it is above and beyond party politics. I share the views expressed by  Senator Button  in the Senate that ASIO must be apolitical and that this legislation must be looked at on a bipartisan basis. To agree to this amendment is to write politics into ASIO. If the Opposition does so it is likely to destroy ASIO or destroy its capacity to protect the security of this nation. 
With respect to the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  there have been three Opposition speakers in a row, simply because they received the call. With respect, I assure the honourable member for Melbourne Pons  (Mr Holding)  that laryngitis has not in any way affected whatever legal ability I have to read and understand the legislation before the House. It might affect the manner in which I deliver the opinion but it certainly does not affect the opinion itself. The honourable member for Melbourne Pons is a very persuasive parliamentary debater. He is a good in-fighter. From the way he and the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  spoke, one would think that the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  was discretionary. But it is not; it is mandatory. It states: 
The Minister shall be informed by the Director-General as to the existence of any file . . . 
That means all files, all dossiers and all records. What is this codswallop about putting it on the basis that there could be a file in relation to a member of this House? Apparently, the honourable members have not looked at clause 2 1 of the Bill. If we look at clause 21, we find that the Director-General is obliged under statute 'to consult regularly with the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives for the purpose of keeping him informed on matters relating to security'. Is anybody in this Parliament going to suggest to me that, if there is a security risk in this chamber or in another House, the Director-General will not inform the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition? Is anybody going to suggest that if there is a file on the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  or the honourable member for Bonython or any other honourable member it will be kept under double wraps? 
It is an absolute nonsense. The proof of the pudding is in the eating. If members opposite are concerned about this aspect, why did they not act upon it between 1972 and 1975? What has happened between 1975 and 1979? We are not even talking about a Director-General who was appointed by our Government. We are talking about the present Opposition's appointee. I remind the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  in relation to the remarks that he made earlier tonight that the present Director-General was appointed by the previous Administration. The appointment was approved by the present Government. He is a man in respect of whom all Australians, I believe, would have confidence and trust. 
If the Deputy Leader of the Opposition had proposed an amendment which was not mandatory but was permissive, providing a statutory framework for a Minister on particular occasions, in special cases - 
I am sorry; it is not. The honourable member for Bonython knows very well that the words 'the Minister shall be informed ' make it mandatory. 
I am sorry; I am looking at both amendments together to avoid duplication in my remarks. The proposed amendment to sub-section 3 states: 
The Minister is entitled to access to all records of the Organization. 
The next proposed provision states: 
The Minister shall be informed by the Director-General as to the existence of any file ... if the Minister so requests. 
The words 'any', 'all' and 'shall' make it mandatory. So, if the Minister says 'I want to see every single file', the Director-General is obliged to inform him of those in existence. That puts the Director-General in the extraordinary situation of having given the Minister a list of every single file. The Opposition then says that the DirectorGeneral should decide which files he will show the Minister. Would one of the honourable members opposite explain to me what advantage there is in the Minister knowing the name of a file if he cannot see it? That is the effect of the amendment moved by the Opposition. The Opposition is saying that the Minister is entitled to know that there is a file on Clyde Holding or Ted Innes but that he is not entitled to see it. Is that logical? 
-The honourable member says that it is logical that the Minister can find out that there is a file on Ted Innes but is not allowed to look at it. I just cannot follow that. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports said in reply to me earlier that he knows very well that a Minister cannot be forced to answer a question on security. But what about a Minister who might be very happy to answer such a question, to let the information slip out? Let us not beat around the bush. Politics is a rough, tough game. Let us say that the Attorney-General is asked a Dorothy Dixer whether there is an Australian Security Intelligence Organisation file on an Opposition senator or an Opposition member of this chamber. Under the Opposition's suggested provision the Minister could say: 'I shouldn't say it, but as a matter of fact there is an ASIO file on  Mr U.  E. Innes. I have not seen it and I cannot tell you what is in it but there is a file in the ASIO office on Ted Innes'. What a great injustice would be done. I know that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is genuinely concerned about the security of this country. Is it not far better for the Leader of the Opposition in his briefings with the Director-General behind closed doors to say: Look, the story is around that ASIO has a file on  Mr Ted  Innes. Let us discuss it'? If we cannot trust the Leader of the Opposition in this country - 
I think there probably is one on me but it is pretty old now. I think going back to university days there probably is a file on me but it is 2 1 years old now and I am not very worried about it. 
I do not know whether the honourable member is insulting me or the public servants of Australia. Would he make it clear? Somebody is being insulted and I am not sure whether it is me or somebody else. 
-No. The honourable member for Cunningham is a most entertaining debater but he has just made the most incredible comment. If he has public servants in his electorate, in fairness to himself he ought to make it very clear that that interjection was intended to insult me and not them. Having said that, I come back to the fundamental point. If we want a politicised security organisation, if we want a Federal Bureau of Investigation or SS type operation in Australia, put it in the hands of a Minister. Why have a Director-General? Why have a 
Director-General if we are going to have the situation proposed in the amendment moved by the Opposition in which the Minister can know all of the names and addresses but not the details? I just cannot follow the logic of the proposed amendment but I do say one thing: If there were any substance in the amendment we would have seen it between 1972 and 1975 when the man moving it was in a position to make it the law of this country. The Opposition did not do it then and, with respect, I doubt its motives for trying to do it now. 
In view of Australia's very genuine concern for the tragic humanitarian situation in East Timor, and in view of reports that over 40 per cent of a recent multi-million dollar aid grant from the International Red Cross failed to reach its proper destination, I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs what steps are taken - 

 Honourable members interjecting; 

I would rather have a sick throat than a sick mind. My throat will be better in a couple of days. I ask the Minister: What steps are taken to ensure that Australian Government aid truly reaches the scores of thousands of people in need? Is the Minister able to comment on a recent announcement by the New Zealand Government that it intends to institute a full inquiry into the delivery of New Zealand humanitarian aid to East Timor? 
I normally agree with the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  on many matters involving civil rights. I do not with any immodesty challenge his bona fides on this issue but I do submit that in a lot of ways the honourable member has presented a very good argument as to why the Bill in its present form ought to be accepted in preference to the amendments drafted by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  The honourable member speaks about protection. He talks about picking judges - 
I said earlier today, and I remind the honourable member for Prospect of it, that I would rather have a sick throat than a sick mind because my throat will be better in a couple of days; I hope his mind similarly improves. I say to the honourable member for Lalor that the Opposition's amendments may very well create a situation that will defeat the very objective which it is trying to obtain. Is the honourable member telling me- we are now talking about Tasmania and Western Australia, which have no resident Federal judge, and therefore under section 19 the application will go to a State Supreme Court judge- that the Customs officers will attempt to pick a judge in Tasmania? In Tasmania there are five judges, two of whom might be sitting in Hobart at one time, one in Launceston, one in Burnie and one on reserved decisions. When one is dealing with small numbers like that it is rather difficult to pick and choose which judge will hear an application. If the honourable member is talking about Federal Court judges at large- 
Just pardon me a minute. I listened very patiently to the honourable member. 
I beg your pardon. I will make my speech and the honourable member may make his. The honourable member suggests that the officers would pick a judge in the Federal Court. How will they get on in the Northern Territory? Look at paragraph (c) of clause 18. There are three judges in the Northern Territory. Will the officials be able to pick and choose? With the greatest respect, the honourable member for Lalor shows a fine academic appreciation of the way the law works but not a very fine practical appreciation. 
The second point I put to the honourable member is that we are talking about judicial proceedings. These are proceedings in a court of record. He knows very well that even in ex parte applications, the court of record insists that it have documentary evidence either at the beginning of the hearing or by the end of the hearing. Whether that comes in the form of a transcript taken in chambers or whether it comes in the form of an affidavit which is subsequently sworn- an affidavit which is presented in escrow at the commencement of the proceedings and sworn subsequently- or whether it comes in the judge's notes, is the honourable member suggesting for one minute to me and to the members of this Committee that a judge, on a matter as important as the tapping of a telephone, is not going to ensure that he has evidence in black and white upon which he can justify his decision, albeit he knows that that decision may not be reviewed in a superior court? What is the situation if a judge or his associate is called to produce the records of the proceedings? 
Does the honourable member- I turn to the amendments- seriously think that any judge in Australia is going to make an order for telephone tapping without knowing the name, address and occupation of the subscriber? It would be lovely if the judge made an order to tap a telephone if he did not know the name, address and occupation of the subscriber or the number given. Great effort! With the greatest of respect, this is an insult to the intelligence of Australia's Federal, Supreme Court and Northern Territory judges. Are judges really going to give an order to tap a telephone and not ask what number it is or whose phone it is? I turn to the next point. Proposed new clause 20 (3) (b) states: the officer of Customs has given to the Judge, either orally or by further affidavit, such further information as the Judge requires concerning the grounds on which the issue of a warrant is being sought; 
Do not tell me that the judges of Australia need to be told in an Act of Parliament that they have power to say to a witness: 'Your evidence is not sufficient. I want more, either viva voce oral evidence or by affidavit'. Is the honourable member really suggesting that a judge needs to have it stated in an Act of Parliament that he has power to say to a witness: 'Go away and come back with more evidence'? Paragraph (c) of proposed new clause 20 (3) states: the Judge is satisfied as to the matters specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of sub-section ( 1 ); 
That is what the Government put in. Proposed new paragraph (d) states: the Judge is satisfied that other methods of investigation have been tried without success- 
Just contemplate that point. The Opposition issaying that the Customs official has to try another method without success before he can get an order to tap a telephone. Is that not terrific? If the officers hear about the offence only three or four minutes beforehand and they know a telephone call is coming through whereby an arrangement will be made to pick up drugs - 
I am sorry, but I am going to make this point. Why do Customs officers have to try another method first without success? The Opposition is saying to them: 'Have a go the wrong way first and we will let you have a go the right way second '. 
-We are talking about catching people involved in the trade of narcotics. Why does the Opposition say that Customs officers have to try a method which will be unsuccessful before they try a method which will be successful? The amendment goes even further and states: or would be unlikely to be successful- 
This really puts the investigating officer in a wonderful situation. He has to choose between giving evidence to the judge that he has tried something already without success, or that he has not tried it but if he did try it he thinks it would be unlikely to be successful. I reckon the judge would certify an officer who said: 'I have not tried it but I am pretty sure if I did try it it would be unsuccessful'. I am not making fun of the matter. I am trying to point out that whilst the honourable intentions of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition are clear to me, this amendment shows that the Opposition is virtually creating one of the most extraordinary legal circumstances I have ever seen in my life. The amendment continues: or would be impracticable . . . 
Let us look at the amendment analytically. If the officer tries a method and it is unsuccessful, he can get an order to tap a telephone; but if he has not tried the method because he thinks it would be unlikely to be successful or it would be impracticable, then he would also get an order. With the greatest respect, I do not think that the Opposition ought to suggest that the judges of Australia should cop that sort of nonsense. Then we come to the next part of the amendment. Paragraph (e) states: the Judge is satisfied that, given the seriousness of the suspected offence, or suspected likely offence, the issue of a warrant would be in the public interest. 
I want to be heard to say in this Parliament that I hope every judge in Australia, prima facie, is against the issuing of warrants to tap telephones. I believe that every judge in Australia, learned in the law, and appreciating the civil liberties of this nation, prima facie would be against the issuing of a warrant. On that basis, to suggest that a judge has to have it spelt out to him as though he is a first year law student that he has to take into account the seriousness of the offence, in my respectful submission, is again insulting to the judiciary. I repeat that I am not against the spirit of what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition seeks to do, but I am saying that, intended or otherwise, the Opposition is creating a legal nonsense, an insult to the judiciary. Quite frankly, as the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  said, in the minds of some the amendment may well be fettering the exercise of judicial discretion. Lastly- honourable members should listen to this; it is as if one were talking to a jusdee of the peace- the Opposition's proposed new sub-clause (3A) reads: 
Where a Judge issues a warrant under this section, he shall state on the affidavit furnished to him by the officer of Customs, which of the grounds specified in that affidavit he has relied on to justify the issue of the warrant and particulars of any other grounds relied on by him to justify the issue of the warrant. 
It is almost like tick-a-box justice if we say to the judge: 'We trust you so little, Joe, that we are going to make you say on which ground you have relied'. It is almost intimidatory. I repeat that it is a lawyer's argument. I do not dispute the intentions of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, but, really, whoever dreamt this provision up for him has a most fertile imagination. Perhaps he has entertained the Parliament a little but really he has insulted the judiciary of Australia and has suggested that the judiciary does not know the first thing about human rights, whereas I believe it is the fundamental protector of human rights in this nation. 
With all due respect to the frog-like arguments of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding),  everything he has said is destroyed by the Opposition's proposed new to clause 20a. After saying everything has to be written down in forms, that the Customs officer has to know exactly what he has to say and that the judge has to know exactly what he has to do, this amendment makes provision for telephone applications. Ring him up in the middle of the night on the telephone. Now, with all due respect, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports took me to task and he spoke about pleadings. I do not think we have pleadings in the Supreme Court of Tasmania in its criminal jurisdiction. I am sure that the honourable member does not have it in Victoria. However, I will let the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  speak, but how is someone going to do affidavits by telephone? He will make legal history. They do not even do that on the  Muppet Show. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)-Is  it the wish of the Committee that the remainder of the Bill be taken as a whole? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
-Despite some voice affliction I take very much pleasure in participating in this debate. I was a member of Estimates Committee A when it dealt with the estimates of the Attorney-General's Department, the Department of Foreign Affairs, the Department of Home Affairs and the Department of the Capital Territory. Before I speak with respect to the work of the Committee, I want to congratulate the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  and his colleagues on setting what was certainly an Australian record and probably a world record in respect to the vote tonight on the motion for the second reading of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1). I do not take it any further except to say that I have checked and I believe that the vote by 18 members of the Opposition is the smallest opposition vote on a Budget Bill since Federation. I congratulate members of the Australian Labor Party on their contribution on that occasion. 
I refer, firstly, to the estimates for the Department of the Capital Territory and the Department of Home Affairs. I do so specifically to congratulate the Minister for Home Affairs, the  Hon.  K.  J. Ellicott, for the manner in which he presented the estimates of those two departments to the Committee and for the very co-operative manner in which the departmental officers assisted the committee. The honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  was present at the meeting of Estimates Committee A when we had the benefit of considering the estimates of both departments. I particularly commend the honourable member, and other honourable members who were present, for the manner in which we were able to go through a multitude of estimates with respect to both departments. The matter just raised by the honourable member for Lalor about the Australian Opera was in fact raised at the meeting of Estimates Committee A. I simply make the point very bluntly and briefly that if it is to be called the Australian Opera it must be the Australian Opera. It is not good enough for the Australian Opera, out of some 200 performances which are listed for the current financial year, to perform in the order of 160 of those performances in Sydney, New South Wales, and to omit totally visits to Tasmania and Western Australia. I make the point: If it is the Australian Opera let it be the Australian Opera and let it go into every State in the Commonwealth. We should bear in mind that funding through the Australia Council for the Tasmania Opera Company was terminated last year and we no longer have a Tasmanian opera company. We were promised that the Australian Opera would go to Tasmania. To date I am afraid that we have yet to see it. Having said that, I turn my attention to - 
-What a hypocrite you are. 
He is only doing the dirty work of the honourable member for Hughes. 
-Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs now received official confirmation of the savage gaol sentences imposed in Prague upon the distinguished Czechoslovakian playwright, Vaclav Havel, and four other members of the Charter 77 sub-group, the Committee for the Defence of the Unjustly Prosecuted? Has the Minister noted reports that, during the show trial in Prague, Western diplomats and journalists were excluded from the courtroom, that an accredited representative of Amnesty International was denied access to the courtroom and that Anna Uhl, the wife of one of the defendants, was physically removed from the courtroom and subsequently arrested? In view of the world-wide protests against this mockery of justice perpetrated in Prague and in view of the public statements of  President  Carter,  Mrs Thatcher,  the Italian  President  and the European Parliament, will the Minister now indicate Australia's attitude to this travesty of basic human rights? Will he convey Australia's views in the strongest possible terms to the Czechoslovakian authorities? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That in view of the problems which have developed with reference to the delivery of urgent Australian relief aid into East Timor, and in order to ensure that the Australian Parliament is fully appraised of the current situation in East Timor, the House strongly supports the proposal of  Mr Speaker  that an official delegation from the Australian Parliament should make a fact-finding visit to East Timor at the earliest possible opportunity. 
The motion will be seconded by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon). 
-First and foremost, I invite all honourable members to cast their minds back to the Founding Fathers decision to form the Commonwealth of Australia. I venture to suggest that had there not been agreement with respect to the establishment of the High Court of Australia there would have been no Commonwealth of Australia. As my learned and honourable colleague, the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock),  pointed out most effectively, the High Court of Australia is the judicial arm under which the Commonwealth Constitution operates. Therefore, anything that is done with respect to the High Court will have a very substantial effect on the constitutional future of Australia and, in particular, the federal system which is guaranteed by that Constitution. 
For the very obvious reason of my voice affliction my comments will be comparatively brief, but I could not avoid the opportunity to rise in my place and to make a plea that whatever legislation we pass tonight will not in any way affect or weaken the accessibility of the High Court of Australia to the people of Australia. If the High Court of Australia becomes remote and inaccessible to all the people of Australia, then I believe that the constitutional framework of this country will be weakened and the federal system will be endangered. 
This is not the plea of somebody from a small, outlying State. It is the plea of a lawyer who firmly believes that the High Court of Australia should be accessible to the people. I would oppose 100 per cent the introduction into this country of what has happened in the United States of America where the United States Supreme Court sits in great majesty in Washington and those who are rich enough go to Washington and have access to that Court but those who are not rich do not get to that Court. The United States Supreme Court has become inaccessible to the average American. That is notwithstanding the fact that judges of the United States Supreme Court are allocated to certain parts of the United States to deal with urgent matters. There was a recent case in the State of Nevada where a  Mr Bishop  was executed for murder. Honourable members who followed the legal proceedings in that matter will know that that man had access to two United States Supreme Court justices who were designated to deal with any urgent matters coming from that part of the United States in which Nevada is situated. 
As I have mentioned on a previous occasion in this House, I had the honour- indeed, it was a very great honour- to serve as an associate to one of the most distinguished High Court judges this country has ever known. I was associate for a period of 12 months to  His  Honour the Right Honourable  Sir Victor  Windeyer, a very great judge of the High Court of Australia.  Sir Victor  Windeyer was on the Bench at the time when perhaps Australia's greatest ever Chief Justice,  Sir Owen  Dixon, presided over the Court. It will be recalled by all honourable members that  Sir Owen  Dixon was regarded, I think universally, as the greatest lawyer in the English-speaking world at that time. Indeed, a famous story was told of a dinner in London when  Sir Owen  Dixon was being welcomed. I think it was Lord Pearce who made the welcoming address. He referred to  Sir Owen  Dixon as: 'The greatest judge in the British Empire'.  Mr Justice  Harlan of the United States Supreme Court was at that dinner as a guest of honour. He begged to interrupt. He said: My Lord, I wish to correct your statement.  Sir Owen  Dixon is not just the greatest judge in the British Empire; he is the greatest judge in the English-speaking world '. 

 Sir Owen Dixon was quite adamant; I make this point because it is of considerable substance; that the High Court of Australia would continue to travel into each State of Australia and be accessible to the litigants of all parts of Australia with equal availability. That meant that despite his age and, in the last years of his term as Chief Justice, despite poor health,  Sir Owen  Dixon ensured that that Court went to Queensland, Tasmania, South Australia and Western Australia. It travelled around the whole of Australia. I make the point- the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  for whom I have a regard, will appreciate that it is a very significant point- that the High Court of Australia belongs to the people of Australia. Whilst I do not wish to be a carping critic and to say that the construction of a home for the High Court of Australia on the side of Lake Burley Griffin is something that should not have been done, I am trying to say: Let the High Court of Australia have its home in Canberra, but let it keep in contact with the rest of the people of Australia. The effect of the legislation which we are passing tonight and which I know has been studied by lawyers on the Opposition side of the Parliament is as follows: Clause 14 of the High Court of Australia Bill, which will become an Act, provides: 
On and after a date to be fixed by Proclamation, the seat ofthe High Court shall be at the seat of Government in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Clause 15 provides: 
Sittings of the High Court shall be held from time to time as required at the seat of the Court - 
That means in Canberra- 
But the Court may sit at other places within Australia and the external Territories. 
I feel, and I have expressed the view, that perhaps that clause should read: 
. shall sit at other places within Australia - 
I am pleased to see that I have the support of my colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding).  I do not press for an amendment because I am assured that it is the wish of the High Court of Australia to continue to visit the States. But we know that there will be no more sittings in Melbourne or Sydney after the new High Court is opened in Canberra, except for the purpose of taking evidence, and those hearings will take place before a single justice of the High Court. No more appeals will be heard in Melbourne or Sydney once the new High Court building is opened here. What is the position as far as Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania are concerned? I will not go into detail, except to say that I was mortified to hear the patronising comment in Hobart not very long ago by somebody who is intimately connected with the High Court. He said: 'Do not worry. After we are based in Canberra we will still come down and visit you from time to time'. That would never have been said in the days of  Sir Owen  Dixon. 
I will not be drawn, but I do say this: If the High Court is to be accessible to the people of Australia, one of two things will happen: Either it will continue to sit in the outlying States, or the government of the Commonwealth of Australia, whether it is Liberal or Labor, will have to pick up the tab for flying litigants, the witnesses, and the counsel to Canberra. Let me make it quite clear. If I am informed that this is not the wish-the High Court wants to hibernate in glory on the shores of Lake Burley Griffin or if it is a case of Mohammed not going to the mountain but of the mountain coming to Mohammed, then the Commonwealth Government must pick up the tab to ensure that the people of Australia, whether they live in Tasmania or north Queensland, will have the same right of access to the High Court of Australia. 
-The honourable member is quite right. My colleague, the honourable member for North Sydney, as usual, is in the chamber assisting me with his wise counsel. My friend, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  made the comment that the work of the High Court was more complex today than it was at the time of Federation. I wish that were true, but we all know that it is not true. Let us be quite frank. In recent years we have consistently cut away at the functions of the High Court of Australia. We have handed them over to the Federal Court of Australia. We have said that we will not press our High Court judges to the point of physical exhaustion. I just wonder whether we have clipped the fingernails back too far and whether we have now cut down to the knuckles. I can remember, as a snotty-nosed articled clerk, actually sitting in Hobart in the back of the Supreme Court. I saw the great lawyers of that generation-  Sir Owen  Dixon,  Sir Wilfred  Fullagar,  Sir Frank  Kitto,  Sir Alan  Taylor and  Sir Douglas  Menzies. Where are the snottynosed articled clerks of Australia going to go if they want to see the workings of the High Court after the new establishment on the Lake is built? If they do not have the fare to Canberra will they see them? I hope they will. I hope I have not been flippant on a matter about which, I can assure you,  Mr Speaker,  several High Court judges know that I feel strongly about. I can assure honourable members that I feel very strongly about this. 
-They have heard me in Hobart, and not to great advantage. There is an important part of the Bill, clause 46. I have already read clause 15 which says that the High Court shall sit in Canberra or may sit at other places. 
Clause 46 states: 
Subject to this section, the powers of the High Court under this Act may be exercised by the Justices or by a majority of them. 
So, if four out of seven say that they are-not going to Tasmania, Western Australia or Queensland, that is it. In conclusion I make one plea. I have nothing against the new High Court building. I have nothing against the seat of the High Court being in Canberra. But let us ensure that it is on the understanding that the High Court will continue to visit the States of Australia, that it will be accessible to the people, and that it will be a living example of embodiment of the principle of federalism for which we stand. If the High Court decides that it will hibernate and that it will sit on the shores of Lake Burley Griffin and let everybody else come to it, it will be breaking faith not only with this Parliament but also with the Constitution. Members in this Parliament at that time will be well and truly entitled to rise to their feet and say: 'When you made the seat of the High Court Canberra, this was never the intention'. With those qualifications I support the Bills. 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Speaker, I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House censures and condemns Australian Labor Party proposals to abolish State Governments, to abolish the Senate, and to establish a Socialist-Centralist Republic in Australia against the will of the people of Australia and in total contradiction of the basic principles of free enterprise federalism upon which the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia is clearly based. 
It is seconded by the honourable member for Wilmot(Mr Burr). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 23 October 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Tasmanian Minister for Education  (Mr Holgate)  plans to reduce or even close down the Mount Nelson campus of the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education. 
If so, is the future of the Mount Nelson College purely a State matter and is the responsibility purely  Mr Holgate  's. 
Does the Federal Government advocate or encourage moves to reduce or close down the Mount Nelson campus. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House is of the opinion that so much of the Standing Orders should be amended and added to as will give effect to the proposition that no allegation of criminal conduct shall be made against any Member of this House or of the general public, under Parliamentary privilege, without the details of the said allegation having first been referred to  Mr Speaker,  supported by documentary evidence sufficient to raise, in the judgment of  Mr Speaker,  a prima facie case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 14 November 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that at the Minister's request, the Department of Social Security is conducting a continuing review of the levels of all social security benefits and in particular, unemployment benefits. 
What would the cost to revenue be if unemployment beneficiaries were permitted to earn (a) $20, (b) $30 and $40 per week without suffering any reduction in their unemployment benefit payments. 
Would the Minister consider the possibility of raising the amount of outside income which can be earned without any reduction in unemployment benefits to at least $20 per week. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 23 October 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that all judgments, opinions and official memoranda of Federal Judges are subject to Crown copyright? 
Are heavy penalties provided for persons guilty of serious breaches of Crown copyright, and in particular persons who use Crown copyright material in the Parliament without acknowledging the source and without first having obtained the consent of the Judge whose material has been plagiarised? 
