I desire to ask the Minister for Immigration a question. Taking the hint,  Mr Speaker,  I will make my preface brief. I refer to British migration, which has long been of great strength to our total migration programme. Is the Government concerned at the recent downturn of assisted migration from Britain? What are the factors responsible for this downturn? What is being done to generate a greater flow of British settlers to this country? 
I thank the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  and the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden).  As I understand the law and as I recollect the law on passports, the situation can be stated briefly as follows: A passport lasts for 5 years and no longer. If it is to be renewed it has to be renewed in Australia or, in the case of people working for the Commonwealth, it can be renewed even if they are outside Australia. If that is the law, then Burchett's passport has expired; but so, too, have the passports of O'Donnell, Hawkins and Knox. If Burchett's passport had expired, it should be stated publicly that the passports of those three men have also expired and that they have no right to re-enter Australia. 
I believe that all these people, being natural born Australians, have the inalienable right to come back to this country. That is the great principle that we are debating. If the Government does not want to issue a passport to Burchett or to anybody else who in its opinion has behaved disgracefully and can no longer have the protection of the Commonwealth, such persons are entitled to a document of identification to say that they are Australian born citizens. In my view an Australian born citizen certificate is more important than any other document that can be issued, and that should be the view of all Australians. The second point to which I direct attention is the Attorney-General's observation about the amendment of the Crimes Act in 1960 to validate the extraterritorial activities of Australian citizens. 
As the law now stands, does it mean that any person who has reported adversely on Australian citizens or Australian soldiers in regard to the contest in Vietnam can be charged with treason? Is that the fact? If it is, why is not Burchett tried for treason under the new law in respect of the Vietnam war? If he is not to be charged for anything he is alleged to have done in regard to the Vietnam war, is the failure of the Government to prosecute him due to the claim which the Australian Labor Party makes that the Vietnam war is an undeclared war? The Korean War was a declared war. We engaged in the Korean War under the United Nations, but in the Vietnam war there has been no declaration of war. Is the position in regard to the Vietnam War different from that of the Korean War because, in one case, we were legally engaged in hostilities and, in the second case, we are engaged not in a war but merely in an adventure? I should like the opinion of the Attorney-General on these points. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
What Embassies accredited to the Commonwealth of Australia have not yet established their headquarters in Canberra. 
Is he able to say why these Embassies have not established their headquarters in the national capital. 
Are any steps under consideration to persuade Embassies concerned to establish themselves in Canberra; if so, what steps. 
In what city or cities, other than Canberra, is any Ambassador or are any Ambassadors located. 
asked the Minister for Educa  tion and Science, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that a conference of State Ministers for Education was held in Perth recently to assess the results of surveys of urgent education needs made in all States. 
Did the Conference decide to ask the Federal Government to provide special financial help to enable the States to tackle the most serious educational ills on a national basis. 
Did the Victorian Education Minister,  Mr L.  H. Thompson, point out the need for a multimillion dollar campaign to improve the 80-year old- and even older - State primary and secondary schools in Melbourne's inner suburbs. 
Is he able to say whether up to 80 per cent of the students attending these schools are migrants and whether any facilities exist at them to provide special English classes or compensatory education of the type needed for children reared in a high density environment. 
Is he also able to say whether the schools concerned are known as 'ghetto' schools. 
What does the Government intend to do to provide, by increased revenue grants or increased loan allocations, the sums sought. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Havethe opinions of constitutional lawyers been obtained on the question of constitutional difficulties which might invalidate legislation to permit the electors of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory to elect two members each to the Senate; if so, will he table them in the House. 
I desire to ask the Prime Minister a question, and I presume to ask it on behalf of every member of this House. Will the right honourable gentleman be good enough to say to what functions honourable members and their wives are to be invited during the Queen's visit to Canberra late next month? Will he also say on what days  Her  Majesty and her family will be in Canberra? 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Is it the intention of the Government to order a re-distribution of the seats of the House of Representatives following the taking of the census on 30 June 1971. 
If no decision  has  yet been taken in the matter, will he give consideration to the possibility that the voting age might be reduced to 18 years' of age during the lifetime of this Parliament which will add the names of some hundred thousand new voters to the rolls and this, in turn, could cause a disparity in the number of voters in the respective electorates. 
Will he also consider the increased growth of the population which is likely to increase greatly the populations of the capital and provincial cities in all the States, and thus cause additional disparities in the number of voters in the respective electorates. 
I will not take up the time of the House for wry long, I was driven to this House at 9 o'clock yesterday morning by a car driver who finished at 4 a.m. and had to report back at 7.30 a.m., and as far as I know he is still on duty. This situation has to cease. I ask the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  to talk to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  about arranging the business of the House so that if there is legislation we have to consider we will sit for as long as is necessary every week to consider it. We could sit for 4, 5 or 6 days a week. The point I want to make is that working class bosses are the worst bosses of all, and that members of this Parliament who by some fortuitous circumstance find themselves here have no right to demand that the employees of the departments shall serve us to the detriment of their health and to the danger of their lives and our lives. 
I believe that every man or woman who serves this Parliament is entitled to a 9- hour break between periods of employment. I believe that that is only human. I say that not only in respect of the car drivers but also in respect of the officers of the House, the Hansard reporters and the people who work in the refreshment rooms. Everybody is entitled to at least a certain time for rest. We must not endanger the lives of people or the happiness of their families. I know that the Minister for the Interior is a kindly man. 1 know there is a difficulty in getting people to work for the Department. We are not paying them enough. We are not doing enough. I do not blame him, but the fact is that the people who work in the car pool are not as well paid as people who work outside it. The people who work in the refreshment rooms could get better employment or at least better payment for their services than they get here. 
This whole question ought to be looked into. Let us sit 4 days a week for the rest of the session if the Government has so much business for the consideration of honourable members. I do not care about those who want to run away, particularly to Sydney and Melbourne. They put up the plausible excuse that they have commitments in their electorates. The people who come from Western Australia often have to stay here over the weekend. People from South Australia on occasions have to stay here over the weekend. Not everybody is able to go on an hour's flight such as the flight from Canberra to Sydney or from Canberra to Melbourne. After all Sydney and Melbourne are not Australia. They are not the only important places that count in Australia. The whole community needs services and the whole community is entitled to consideration. I would not mind sitting on Sunday if necessary. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh has not been to church for many years. He is a pretending Christian but in his heart he is a rationalist. I say to the Minister for the Interior: Let us give some consideration to the needs of the people who work for us and not demand that they shall always be at our service when we want to get out of Canberra at the earliest possible moment and come in at the latest possible time. 
I desire to bring to the attention of the House a matter concerned with immigration. 1 have kept closely in touch with the immigration programme over the years, not only because of my own interest as the Minister who first planned the post-war intake of migrants but more particularly because of its vital importance to Australia. The policy that has been followed by Ministers who succeeded me has generally followed the basic lines laid down at the commencement of the programme and has had my full support. However, recent newspaper reports of a change in policy in respect of the transport of migrants to Australia has concerned me somewhat. Previously, and in particular in recent years, our policy has followed the lines of employing air and sea transport in equal proportions, but now it would appear we are to use air transportation almost exclusively. Doubtless the exclusive use of air transportation will effect financial savings but, in my view, this should not be the main consideration in planning our migration programme. We have to take account of many factors. For instance, a journey by sea is in itself an attraction to those intending to migrate, particularly to families with small children who can be provided with better facilities and accommodation on a ship. Our recruiting could therefore suffer because about 50% of present applicants elect to travel by sea. 
Secondly, experience has shown that migrants who travel by sea are better conditioned to take up a new life in this country. They have time to realise that they will have to face standards and circumstances which are different from what they have been used to. Thirdly, 3 or 4 weeks on a ship provided opportunity, so far as migrants from Europe are concerned, to teach them English and to inform both British and European passengers more fully on such important matters as government in all its phases, education, housing, hostels, employment and so on. Fourthly, I under stand that migrants who arrive by sea are more contented and settle down to a new life more readily than those who travel by air, because these people are one day in London, for example, and the next day in Albury. The transition is rather too rapid. Further, there is evidence to show that the returnee rate is higher amongst air migrants than amongst those who come by sea. Also the important responsibility of placing migrants in employment commensurate with their qualifications can be much better performed in the case of sea migrants than those who travel by air. In the former case, ample notice is available of their arrival and officers of the Department of Labour and National Service can board ships at Fremantle and interview workers during the voyage to the eastern States. 
Other aspects which must be considered cover the work of voluntary organisations, such as churches, who nominate, accommodate and generally look after the reception of their nominees. They receive much earlier advice if migrants travel by sea and they are therefore better able to make the necessary arrangements for their reception. Another vital point in favour of sea transportation is that migrants can bring their personal effects and household belongings with them on the ship without charge,, whereas if they come by air they are substantially limited in the amount of baggage they can take with them and any excess has to be paid by the Government or the migrant. Doubtless these points have been fully weighed by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  in reaching his decision, but I. sincerely hope that he has not been unduly swayed by a desire to save money because in the long term this could not eventuate, particularly if the returnee rate increases. In any case, an air policy exclusively could react against the best interests of our migration programme. 
There is one other matter on which I would like to touch. Recent articles in the Press, possibly inspired, do an injustice to a shipping company which has served this country well. I refer to the Sitmar Line which has transported migrants to Australia under the auspices of the Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration from the early 1950s and under official contract to the Australian Government since 1956. I have no business connection with the Sitmar -Line but, like many honourable members on both sides of the House who have informed themselves as to the service being provided for migrants to Australia by this company, I have a full appreciation of the excellent way in which it has carried out its contracts. It is well known that with the advent of the Sitmar Line in 1956 stabilisation of the rates being charged to us by the shipping companies which carried migrants to Australia was brought about. This alone saved Australia many millions of dollars. Sitmar also introduced of its own volition improved food services and better facilities, including air conditioning through its ships. Migrants had complete access to all parts of its vessels; this did not obtain previously with other lines. I understand that Sitmar proved most cooperative in meeting departmental requirements in difficult situations which arose from time to time. Cut backs and increases in programmes by the Department were met by the company even though under the terms of its contract it could have refused to do so. 
It is understood that during the next 3 years shipping, to a limited extent, will be employed as well as air transportation. Certain statements have been made that by using the new shipping contractors - Chandris Lines, as against Sitmar - a saving of $10m will be effected over a period of 3 years. From information which I have sought, this has proved to be a greatly exaggerated claim and, in any case, it should be remembered that the facilities and accommodation provided by Sitmar are of a higher standard. It must also be remembered that Sitmar's contribution to Australia has not been limited to the intake of migrants. Its operations on the Australia run have enabled many young Australians to visit the United Kingdom and Europe at comparatively low fares. 
Finally, I would like to say to the Minister that this company has carried 250,000 migrants to Australia without the loss of one life and to the satisfaction of those travelling on its vessels as well as to the contractual authorities. It has recently spent $57m in purchasing 2 comparatively new vessels and in reconverting them to its high standards. I hope that the excellent service given by this company is recognised by the Minister and that within any limita- tions that might apply he will see that everything possible is done to retain its ships on the Australia run, which could be in doubt if its services for the transportation of migrants is not utilised. The Government has made its decision. There can be no question about that. But I would like to see this Line encouraged to continue its operations on the Australia run, particularly in view of the fact that it has bought new vessels which it is reconverting. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether the British Government has decided to abolish the 3 Ministerial posts of Minister for the Army, the Navy and the Air Force on the grounds that decisions would be reached with greater speed and efficiency if this course were followed. 
If so, does this policy of centralisation also mean the down-grading of the 3 Service Chiefs-of-Staff 
Was a similar proposal put forward by the Morshead Committee in a report to the Menzies Government in the early fifties. 
If so, why were the contents of that report never made public. 
Will he table the document even at this late date. 
Is it likely that the Australian Government will act in respect of what it may regard as redundant Ministers in the same way as the British Government has done. 
asked the Minister for  the  Interior, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a news item in 'The Australian' of 11 th February last which quoted the Wall Street Journal as having recently published an article headed 'The Great American Land Grab' in which it was claimed that Americans now hold between 60 and 70 per cent of the 'Top End' of Australia where leases for station properties sell for between 10 cents and a dollar an acre. 
If so, is it a fact that leases have been acquired as claimed in the article and does the list of American landholders lengthen daily. 
As the 'Top End' of the Northern Territory consists of a tropical rainfall belt of rolling range and wooded hills, will he take steps to prevent American speculators from seizing more of the leaseholds of a very valuable and very vulnerable part of Australia. 
Did the Gunn Land and Exploration Partnership recently buy the long-term lease to Coolibah, a 3,965 square mile 'Top End' cattle station situated on the Victorian River. 
Can he say whether this partnership is a largely American syndicate and whether  Sir William  Gunn, the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board, was active in the negotiations for the purchase. 
asked  the Minister  for Defence, upon  notice: 
ls it a fact that Australia is participating in an undeclared war in Vietnam. 
If so, what other nations are associated with Australia in participation in this undeclared war. 
Has Australia, o'n any other occasions in its history, used military forces abroad for one reason or another in an undeclared war. 
If so, in what circumstances. 
Is participation by Australia in an undeclared war overseas contrary to the accepted rules of international conduct. 
The Indian-Pacific railway line which spans Australia was officially inaugurated in Sydney on 23rd February last. The Commonwealth and State parliamentarians who attended that function had practically no association with the preparation or execution of the project; they were there because of fortuitous circumstances and nothing else. It was certainly a great occasion of which the nation might well be proud. The great undertaking will mean a lot to Australia now and in the future. What saddens me is the fact that the people who were principally responsible for the scheme received no recognition and no commendation at all. They were completely ignored. It was as if they had never existed. 
In the war and post-war periods, when the Curtin and Chifley governments led this nation to victory and brought Australia through the dangerous transition period from war to peace, the late  Sir Harold  Clapp, the then Director-General of Transport, prepared a plan for the standardisation of the whole Australian railway system. It was a great scheme and it was accepted and endorsed enthusiastically by the then Minister for Transport, the late  Hon.  E. J. Ward, and all members of the Chifley Government. The 6 States agreed to a plan whereby the Commonwealth accepted full financial responsibility for the undertaking, with the exception of New South Wales, which had no need to change its gauge but the Government of which agreed to contribute S20m to the cost of the undertaking. The McGirr Government, which succeeded the McKell Government in New South Wales repudiated the promise of its predecessor and the scheme fell through. Had the scheme been brought to fruition in the immediate post-war years, the whole Australian railway system would have been standardised by now and the big deficits suffered by the States since then would have been avoided. 
The Port Augusta-Whyalla scheme and the Port Pirie-Adelaide scheme now being undertaken might have been completed at half the cost that is now involved. No-one mentioned Clapp or Ward or Chifley in any of the festivities on 23rd February last and this was an unpardonable oversight. I wish to put on record the barest truth about the Indian-Pacific Railway and the part played by those whose names I have mentioned and those associated with them. Edward John Ward was a remarkable man who possessed great capacity, energy and determination. He had the faults and failings that all men have, in varying degrees and of different kinds, but he was a great Labor man and his memory deserves more recognition from this Parliament and the nation than it has yet received. 
I think the greatest tragedy for the Labor Party was that Eddie Ward, as he was generally known, was defeated for the  deputy  leadership of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party in 1960. Ward never recovered from that undeserved defeat and died 3 years later. Had Ward won the  deputy  leadership of the Opposition in 1 960 the Labor Party would most certainly have won the 1961 election. As events happened the Labor Party lost very narrowly in what was the most closely contested election in the history of our federation. The likes of Edward John Ward, Joseph Benedict Chifley and Harold Clapp have not yet been born. I regret that on 23rd February 1970  Mrs Edith  Ward, the only living widow of the founders and proponents of the great Indian-Pacific railway was not invited to the festivities when the first train left Sydney on the great standardised gauge from Sydney to Perth. The Federal Parliamentary Labor Party will never be a great party again until it produces another Eddie Ward. 

 Mr Speaker, I want to refer to a few remarks that were made by honourable members on the other side of the House and particularly by honourable members of the Australian Country Party who seem to be very perturbed about the Moratorium Campaign. 
Yes, and they are entitled to be concerned. They are also expected to be consistent. If they do not want a moratorium campaign to stop the war in Indo-China, in South Vietnam and an extension of the war to Cambodia, why do they not get up and tell the Government - and they do twist the tails of the Liberals occasionally - to stop selling wool and wheat to China and wool and wheat to Russia? They cannot have it both ways. There are grounds for legitimate differences of opinion as to what ought to be done about the Vietnam war. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  said that everybody loves peace and that everybody wants peace. There is no doubt that that is a true sentiment. The Australian people want peace. It is a question of how to get peace. In 1965 I said that this filthy war was an unwinnable war. I was right then, and a lot of people are coming around to my opinion now - even people on my own side. 1 think that there are a lot of people in Australia who agree with me now but who would not agree with me in 1965. But I tell the honourable member for Maranoa and all other honourable gentlemen that there are bishops of the Anglican Church, bishops of the Roman Catholic Church, priests of both churches, and ordained ministers in all churches, who are supporting this Moratorium. Are they all wrong? They have the right to express their dissent. If they want to demonstrate they are entitled to demonstrate. For my part, I think that if we are going to get out of this unwinnable war we have to create a healthy public opinion which will compel the Gorton Government to say: 'We are going to bring our troops back. We are going to keep them in Australia. We are going to bring our troops back from Malaysia and Singapore. We are going to get out of every filthy Asian war and stay in Australia.' If that means Fortress Australia, then I am for Fortress Australia. 
I do not know what he said. If it was contemptible, then 1 ho'' him in contempt. People have the right to disagree. The honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  spoke of Churchill. Churchill would never have been Prime Minister of Great Britain if it had not been for the Labour Party. It refused to serve under Chamberlain. When Chamberlain put up Haldane, the Labour Party refused to serve under him. By a process of attrition it came to Churchill. When Churchill formed his ministry, who was his  Deputy  Prime Minister? It was Clement Attleee. Who were the architects of victory under Churchill? They were Ernest Bevin, Aneurin Bevan and Stafford Cripps. These were the men who, in association with Churchill, brought Britain to victory, lt was not a one-man band, lt was a combined effort on the part of very brave and intelligent people. But the people of Britain repudiated Churchill when the war was over. I thought it was a disgraceful disservice which the people of Britain rendered to Winston Churchill because, had he wanted it, he could have been a duke on the day the war ended. Then he was repudiated later. 
We have to keep this question of Vietnam in proper perspective. People have the right to dissent. 1 am not in favour of violence anywhere. I am not in favour of sit-downs or sit-ins or anything that will disrupt traffic or anything else. But people have the right to express themselves, and because of a fear that something might happen, nobody, in my view, has the right to say that people should restrict their right to demonstrate. Violence can happen, but that is incidental to the whole thing. 
I move: 
That  Mr Deputy  Speaker's ruling be disagreed with. 
Then I shall move that your ruling that you did not give a ruling, be disagreed with. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  if we are going to have Rafferty's Rules, I shall move that the House do now adjourn. 
I move: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Get around that one. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement by  Mr D.  J. 0'Hearn, the sub-dean of the Faculty of Arts at the University of Melbourne, following surveys made recently at the University of Melbourne, that (a) 1,000 of the University's 14,000 students were living on the poverty line, (b) between 200 and 300 of these students were nol getting enough to eat and were suffering from malnutrition, (c) some students were living in toolsbeds, curtained-ofT corridors and overcrowded slum houses in the Carlton-Parkville area and (d) students on the poverty line included both undergraduate and post-graduate students and that many of them were on Commonwealth scholarships. 
If so, has be yet investigated the matter. 
If his investigations have proved, or do prove, that these claims are correct, what action, either by the Commonwealth or by the Commonwealth and the State, may be expected to remedy ibc situation. 
If similar conditions are found to exist in other Australian universities, will he lake remedial action. 
ls it a primary function of his Department to work in co-operation with Slate governments, or alone, lo discover and remedy the intolerable conditions which are said to exist in the matter of incomes and living conditions in Australian universities. 
Will he take steps to amend the scholarship scheme to provide sufficient additional assistance to the winners of these scholarships based on the needs of each individual student where such action is found necessary. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice:  (!) ls it anticipated that the Australian population will increase by about one million every three years from now on. 
If so, will the Government consider the introduction of legislation to increase the size of the Senate by an additional two Senators for each  Stale  and thus provide opportunity for an increase m the size of the House of Representatives by twenty-four Members lo ensure continued adequate democratic representation for Our continuously growing population. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to an address to Melbourne Rotary of 15th April 1970 by R. I. Downing. Ritchie Professor of Research in Economics, University of Melbourne, on the problem of housing finance coupled wilh high interest rates. 
Can he state whether current high interest rates of up to 9 per cent for first class commercial borrowers, with repayment spread over 24 years, places an intolerable and unsupportable burden on would-be home purchasers comprised in the main of young married couples. 
In view of the problems and difficulties associated with obtaining finance for housing in periods of high interest rates, will he take steps to have Professor Downing's paper brought to the attention of the Government. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a paper entitled 'Government Control of the Large Corporation in Australia' which was delivered to the Australian Institute of Political Science Summer School in Canberra in late Januaryin which the author,  Mr G.  G. . Masterman, of Sydney, advocated the establishmentof a Federal companies commissionto supervise the activities of companies,less secrecy in the operations of the Commonwealth Trade Practices Act, the right of a private complainant to approach the trade practices tribunal, some form of national control over mergers, urgent and detailed scrutiny of restrictive business practices such as resale price maintenance, and Government support for consumer associations, and claimed that in overseas coun tries legislation designed to protect the community went much further than in Australia. 
If so, and in the light of growing public concern at the growing power of business giants in the national economy, will he give consideration to compiling more information so that the results and the significance of the growth of big business will be more readily available. 
Did the Government recently reject the 
Eggleston Committee's recommendations that companies should be required to disclose their annual turnover figures; if so, why. 
Is he able to say whether other countries have long recognised that publicity and disclosure to the public of restrictive trade practices and agreements were an effective aid to measures designedto control such practices and agreements. 
If so, why is there, under the Commonwealth Trade Practices Act, unnecessary secrecy in the absence of any private fight of complaint tothe tribunal. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
It is a fact that on the Australian Broadcasting Commission Channel 2 National Programme 'Four Corners' on Saturday, 2nd May 1970, the Commissioner of Police for New South Wales,  Mr N.  T. W. Allan, was a member of a panel which included the Acting Commissioner of Police, Brisbane, the Secretary of the Civil Liberties Council of New South Wales and  Mr Paul  Wilson, Senior Lecturer in Government in Queensland. 
Was the  Chairman  of the Panel  Mr Michael  Willesee of A. B.C. Channel 2. 
Is it a fact that, when the programme opened,  Mr Willesee  made certain statements in regard to the conduct of the police and the status of the police with the public and then showed three films relating to criminal abortion activities. 
During the subsequent interview was  Mr Willesee  asked by  Mr Allan  to supply information as to the identity of the persons depicted in the films in order that he could investigate the matter, and did  Mr Willesee  refuse to do so. 
Is  Mr Michael  Willesee an employee of the Commonwealth in the capacity of a television compare with A.B.C. Channel 2. 
If so, were his actions and replies to  Mr Allan  those which are to be expected from an employee of the Commonwealth Government. 
Is it a fact that  Mr Willesee's  failure to assist the police in the investigation of a crime, at a time when he was criticising the police, was unbecoming an employee of the Commonwealth. 
Will be undertake to have this public refusal to help the police in their inquiries into crime investigated, and will he make a statement to the House about it. 
Will he also ensure that the obligations of  Mr Willesee  and other commentators are clearly  set out. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has paid a well deserved tribute to the memory of a very remarkable man and there is nothing that I or anybody else can add to the Prime Minister's tribute.  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes lived a full life. He lived it vigorously. He fought the good fight always. He never lowered his sword. He never asked for quarter and he never gave any. He always fought the good fight without rancour. After the struggle was over he had all that the Prime Minister said in the matter of humanity and even humility. I knew him for longer than anyone else in this House. I knew him from the time he entered the Victorian Parliament in 1925. I feuded with him often as a member of the Victorian Executive of the Labor Party. I feuded with him while he was a State parliamentarian and afterwards when he came to the National Parliament in 1949, which 1 had entered 9 years previously. But our friendship was always firm. It was always constant. He came to see me - as he often did. or 1 went to his room in the new Commonwealth offices in Melbourne to see him - and said he wished to go away on another world visit. He said that it would be his last. He said: I want to go to a meeting of former Rhodes scholars and I would like a pair.' 1 said: 'Well, you will always get a pair from me. Billy, if you want one.' He said: 'Well, you and I are two of the last of our generation left and we have known each other and respected each other.' That was my last conversation with him. The shock of his death the day after he had been in the Commonwealth Parliament offices - I did not see him then - was distressing to me as it was to many other people 1 have said that he was a remarkable man. He had courage, fortitude, physical endurance, mental strength and determination right to the end. But above all that he had sincerity. Whatever he believed lie said. I have never known him to excuse himself or to withdraw any remark or anything he wrote in which he believed. I think he died as he would have wanted to die - in the evening of his life. J think he died as most people would want to die. He entered his eternal repose in the depths of his sleep. 
All Western democracies are under challenge. The parliamentary institutions of the United States of America, Great Britain and Australia are subject to pressures which 20 years ago would not have been thought to exist. We have to move with the times. What would have satisfied the democracies of even 20 years ago would not suffice now. This reform about which we speak is only a minor contribution to reform as such, but it has something which commends itself to me. I believe in a 4-day week. I believe that we were elected to serve the people of Australia in Canberra and we should not run away from Canberra as the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  admits he does whenever and as soon as he can. The honourable member for Angus  (Mr Giles)  said much the same thing. I think it is our duty to be here 4 days a week. 
That is all right. The honourable member is young enough and able enough and he ought to be here and should not run away from the place. 
My heart bleeds for the honourable member for Newcastle because he has to work until 8 o'clock at night. He would not have to work until 8 o'clock at night if he stayed here and did his work. I believe that all honourable members - young and old - should be in Canberra as much as possible. It is all very well for the honourable member for Newcastle, who is in the full bloom of middle age, to say that those honourable members who are too old or too sick ought to resign. I think anybody who comes to Canberra only to draw his salary and who gets out of it as if it were fever-ridden should resign first. To get back to our muttons, I believe that the House should sit 4 days a week. I believe the House ought to sit on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of the first week and Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of the second week and then have a break of 1 week. 1 think the House should sit for 2 weeks and then have a break of 1 week instead of sitting for 3 weeks and having a break of 1 week. That is a fair proposition which should be acceptable to everybody. Generally speaking, the honourable members who want to rush out of Canberra are those who come from Sydney and Melbourne. They do not have any concern for the honourable members who live in the cities of South Australia, Western Australia, Queensland and Tasmania or in the country districts surrounding these places. 
I have been accused by honourable members sitting around me of being a stirrer. I have devoted the last 3 or 4 years of my life to stirring the possum and I intend to stir it again on this issue. It is impossible for each member of a parliament of 125 members to debate every piece of legislation which is introduced. We would be talking into eternity if every member of the House were to speak on every Bill. There has to be some reason used in regard to this sort of thing. We should adopt the practice of the House of Commons in the United Kingdom of a set time being fixed by the Government for discussion on each piece of legislation which is introduced, with a vote being taken at a certain time. That is the only way in which the House of Commons can work with its more than 600 members. We should adopt this practice. It seems to be to me somewhat idiotic to set aside a fortnight to debate the Budget. The case to be put on the Budget can be stated very well by, say, 10. 20 or 40 speakers. The public should be able to make up its mind on the merits of the Budget after such a debate. I believe this is the next matter which should be considered. 
Although it may be somewhat irrelevant to the proposal we are discussing at this stage, I would like to say that 1 do not like the idea of cutting down the time allowed for each speech. Those honourable members who are called upon to speak should be given more opportunities to say what has to be said instead of their time being cut so that everybody will have an opportunity to say something. Some people can say a lot in a very short space of time. Abraham Lincoln took only 3 minutes to say what he wanted to say at Gettysburg and what he had to say won a deserved immortality. A lot of people can cut down the length of their speeches. We do not want to be depicted in the public eye as a parliament of babbling brooks, and we do not want to be all talking on only 1 or 2 subjects. I have no objection to what the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  has proposed, that we have a break of 1 week after the House has sat for 2 weeks of 4 days each. I am in favour of the proposal. 
I am sorry that I have had to disagree with the honourable member for Newcastle, but I believe that the Commonwealth Parliament is the most important parliament in Australia. T am not going to reflect on the State parliaments, but I once heard a Minister in a State government say that members of the Commonwealth Parliament regard State politicians as glorified shire councillors - in fact, Gus Kelly said that. I was impetuous enough to say 'Hear, hear' and I meant it. The eyes of this nation are on the Commonwealth Parliament. We live in dynamic and very challenging times. As we enter the era of the permissive society the challenges will be greater and more fundamental. I would not mind sitting as they did in the days of the French Revolution, when the Legislative Assembly was in constant session. 
I was thinking of that. I was thinking that the honourable member would be one of the first into the tumbril. 
The honourable member for Sydney is like a lot of people from Sydney in that he thinks of only one thing - Sydney or the bush. I know that I have to finish at some time,  Mr Speaker,  I think I had better finish now. 
I ask the Prime Minister  a  question. Has his attention been drawn to newspaper reports of recent date that certain government departments are attempting to bring pressure on the Government to review its attitude towards the destruction of kangaroos? Whether or not his attention has been drawn to the matter, will he give an assurance, as I expect he will, that the Government has no intention of restricting or restraining the activities of the Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation? 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Have Australian tobacco manufacturers been using tobacco stalks as well as tobacco leaf in the manufacture of cigarettes since about 1940. 
Are the manufacturers still doing this. 
Is he able to say what additional profit the companies make by mixing stalks with leaf. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether any newspaper or television company employee has the right to photograph a citizen without his consent. 
If the employee has no such right, what opportunity for redress or protection is available to any citizen who feels aggrieved. 
asked the Attorney-General the following question, upon notice: 
What effect has the Parliamentary Counsel Act, which came into force in June last, had on the number of parliamentary draftsmen employed and the salaries they receive. 
Are more or fewer draftsmen now employed than before the enactment of the legislation. 
If no more draftsmen are being employed than formerly, is it because gome governmental authority has so far failed to determine adequate salaries in accordance with modern conditions to attract to this office the number of draftsmen necessary to enable Ministers and private Members to prepare the legislation they desire to present to the Parliament 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that the Commonwealth Scholarship Scheme for university students was inaugurated by the honourable J. J. Dedman as Minister for War Organisation of Industry in the Curtin Government in 1943. 
Is it also a fact that, as Minister for Postwar Reconstruction in the 1949 Chifley Government  Mr Dedman  was responsible for the number of open entrance university scholarships being increased to 3,000. 
If so, will he take steps to correct his statement on 19 August that the Commonwealth Scholarship Scheme was first introduced in 1951. 
Taking into account the tenfold increase in the student population since 1949, is it now four times more difficult for a student to gain a Commonwealth Scholarship than it was in 1949. 
1 desire to ask the Prime Minister a question. Has he been advised of the brutal and unprovoked assault upon him in the Legislative Council of Victoria last night by a member of his own Party called Nicol who accused him of wishing to become first  President  of an Australian public? Did he notice that the same  Mr Nicol  said that the Prime Minister is power drunk? Also, did he notice that the resolution which  Mr Nicol  supported was carried unanimously by all members of all parties, including members of the Labor Party, all of whom are pledged to unification and greater centralisation? Finally, will he tell the House and the nation - confidentially, of course - where the Liberal Party discovered this particular type of Nicol'? 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement broadcast over station 3LO on 15 September 1970 that 23 per cent of Victorian school children had been assessed as suffering from what was referred to as 'impaired co-ordination' or what has otherwise been referred to as 'a pathological degree of the reversal syndrome'. 
If so, will he have urgent inquiries made to verify this alarming situation and obtain comparative figures for the other States. 
Are any figures available or ascertainable which would indicate what percentage of these affected children are the children of parents who have also been educated under the 'logical' system. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Having regard to section 41 of the Constitution, is there an obligation on the Commonwealthto reduce the voting age for Commonwealth elections to the age applying in a State for elections. 
Will he consider tabling in the House any opinions by the law officers that may be opposed to the contention that there is such an obligation. 
If there is doubt as to the position, will he consider the Commonwealth taking action in the High Court, if this is possible, with a view to the matter being decided before any relevant legislation is passed by a State Parliament. 
asked  the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Does the Government intend to implement recommendations Nos 1 to 8 of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution; if so, when. 
Has his attention been drawn to recent happenings in (a) Tokyo and New York, when the health and properly of citizens were greatly damaged because of air pollution and (b) the United States, where the smog spread in a 1,000-mile belt across the country; if so, has the possibility of similar occurrences in Australia in future been considered by the Government and, if it has, with what result. 
Will the Government promote an understanding of ecologism in Australia so that all Australians can be taught to live in harmony and balance wilh nature and not continue to destroy the natural ecology that gives us life. 
How many copies of the Senate Select Committee's report were printed. 
ls it a fact that no copies are now available to the public. 
If an honourable member calls another honourable member a liar in this chamber you,  Mr Speaker,  demand an immediate withdrawal. No opportunities are given for explanations, for justification or attempted justification. I think the offence is more heinous when somebody who is here by grace of the Parliament has the audacity and the stupidity to shout at the Prime Minister of Australia, no matter who he is; You are a liar'. I think that anybody who does that sort of thing should be paraded at the Bar of the Parliament for sentence, just the same as in the case of an honourable member. Cut out all this rubbish, the cliches, the shibboleths and the humbug. Do not give this fellow an opportunity to come before the Bar of the Parliament to pose as a martyr. He is beneath the contempt of every member of this Parliament and everybody who has a regard for democracy and who wants to see the supremacy of Parliament maintained. Nobody will accuse me of having ever entertained tender feelings in regard to the Press. They fought me and T fought them. I once said in this Parliament and outside it - I hope you will bear with me for just a sentence,  Mr Speaker  - that the Press of this country is owned, for the most part, by financial crooks. 
I think I am,  Sir. 1  do not believe we are serving the best interests of this Parliament if we do not immediately have this man called to the Bar of the 
Parliament and made to apologise, and then when he is made to apologise he should be otherwise dealt with as this House decides. The idea that he is going to be allowed to pull his poison can into the precincts of this House in order to carry on his campaign against the Prime Minister or anybody else at any time in any circumstances is obnoxious. 
Having said that much I do not think I will need another opportunity. 

 - Mr Speaker, in view of the fact that quite a number of questions on the notice paper could never be answered in 7 days or even 7 months without a huge expenditure of public money; in view of the fact that many of them seek information that can be obtained by a little hard work on the part of honourable members; and also in view of the fact that over my long career I have never tried to disrupt the work of Government departments by asking questions at great length, might I now ask you to intercede on my behalf so that I can get an answer to a question I put on the notice paper on 4th March 1970, in which 1 asked the PostmasterGeneral: 
Wilt he consider taking steps to establish a committee of both Houses of the Parliament to examine the question of television and radio broadcasting by the Australian Broadcasting Commission and privately-owned television and radio companies? 
If I may interpolate- 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has bis attention been directed to a statement in the Melbourne 'Age' of 24th February 1971 reporting that the profit of the E.Z. Industries mining group had plunged in the last halfyear and that the directors of this Tasmanian based complex had announced that pre-tax earnings for the December six months had dipped 65 per cent from $7,112,000 to $2,471,000 but that the directors had said that, as there were special deductions allowable, it was unlikely that tax would have to be paid on this profit. 
Has his attention also been drawn to the directors' claim that, in the previous half-year, taxation took $2,147,000 reducing the profit to $4,956,000. 
Are there grounds for, .the statement that the company is unlikely to have to pay taxation on its diminished half-yearly earnings of $2,471,000; if so, why is it that this company, the earnings rate of which for the last financial year was no less than 33 per cent, and maybe other companies, are so favoured when even those wage-earners receiving less - than the basic wage are taxed.  
asked the Minister for 
Repatriation, upon notice: 
Will he consider (a) making the payment of a grant of $250 a year to each ex-serviceman or woman who served on Gallipoli in World War I, (b) permitting all World War I personnel to receive free medical treatment in Repatriation hospitals whether their illnesses are due to war injuries or not, and (c) holding an investigation into the exorbitant charges made by undertakers to the relatives of ex-service personnel. 
asked the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will he consult with his colleagues on the desirability of changing the Colombo Plan and other related procedures so that, instead of Asian and African students being brought to Australia for secondary and tertiary education, highly qualified 
Australian graduates in all faculties would be encouraged to teach in Asian and African universities and schools of advanced education for periods of 3 months or more with the resulting benefits that (a) more students could be educated in their own countries than is possible under the various schemes by which overseas students now enter Australia and (b) Australian boys and girls would not continue to be excluded from Australian universities to make way for non-Australians. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the .British Government has contributed only $A324,000 each year since 1952, a total of $A5,800,000 towards' assisted passages for emigrants from the United Kingdom to Australia. 
Has Australia's payment for the same 'purpose over the same- period amounted 'to $229,000,000. 
If so, will the : Government inform the British Prime Minister that' Australia will offer no objection if the British Government decides to save itself from being further embarrassed by the actions of its own Race Relations Board by discontinuing any further assisted passage payments after 30th June next.. 
asked the Minister for 
Immigration, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the British Government has Contributed only $A324,000 each year since 1952, a total of $A5,800,000 towards assisted passages for emigrants from the United Kingdom to Australia. 
Has Australia's payment for the same purpose over the same period amounted to $229,000,000. 
If so, will the Government informthe British Prime Minister that Australia will offer no objection if the British Government decides to save itself from being further embarrassed by the actions of its own Race Relations Board by discontinuing any further assisted passage payments after 30th June next. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
What is , the estimated: expenditure for the full financial year 1970-71 for (a) additional pension for second and subsequent children, (b) supplementary assistance for pensioners, (c) mother's allowance for widow pensioners with children, (d) guardian's allowance for aged and invalid pensioners with children, (e) double pension entitlement to widows or widowers for 12 weeks following the death of a spouse, (f) the aged persons' homes scheme, (g) home nursing subsidy, (h) nursing home benefits, (i) subsidies for the provision of accommodation for disabled persons, (j) sheltered employment allowances, (k) training scheme for widow pensioners, (1) subsidies for dwellings for aged persons, (m) personal care subsidy for aged pensioners, (n) home care and paramedical services, (o) the meals on wheels subsidy, (p) television licence concessions for pensioners, (q) telephonerental concessions for pensioners, (r)Pensioner Medical Service Scheme, (s) pharmaceutical benefits for pensioners, (t) hearing aid service for pensioners and (u) aged persons' income tax concessions. 
What would be the estimated annual cost of a 50 per cent per week Increase in the rate of age, invalid, widows' and- war service pensions. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What amount was spent in maintaining Australian Forces in Vietnam in each of the years 1967-68, 1968-69, and 1969-70. 
The former Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  supplied the following answer: 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens nf the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 27i per cent (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 471 per cent on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Prime 
Minister, as head of the Government- 
He might be there longer than you think. 1 am not interested in Prime Ministers: I am interested in Socialism. I ask: In view of the possible ill effects on the Australian economy, both directly and indirectly, caused by President Nixon's decision to suspend convertibility of gold into dollars, will the Prime Minister make a statement to the House at an early date so that this momentous decision may be debated and the Australian people informed of its full significance as honourable members are able to understand it? 

 - Mr Speaker- 

1  thank the Leader of the House for the courtesy he has extended to me.  1  would not have wanted this debate to end tonight without having the opportunity to make my own contribution to it. I was the Leader of the Opposition in  1964  when the Menzies Government decided to send Australian troops to Vietnam. On behalf of the Australian Labor Party, I opposed the move.  1  opposed the imposition of national service and  1  opposed conscription.  1  echoed the words of President Johnson who said that it was a cruel, dirty war. In fact.  1  elaborated upon those words and said that it was a brutal, filthy, genocidal, unwinnable civil war. I believed that then and  1  believe it now. But politics is a funny game. The Government won a tremendous majority in  1966  by persuading the people that we ought to be in Vietnam and tonight it has hopes of winning the next election by telling the people that we are getting out of Vietnam.  1  congratulate the Government on the decision it has now taken, but I wish we had never gone into Vietnam at all.  1  deplore the loss of SOO servicemen and the wounding of thousands more.  1  believe in fortress Australia. I do not believe in forward defence. I hope that this is the last time Australian troops will be called upon to fight in any European or Asian war. Lots of people are now climbing onto the bandwagon. I have heard quite a number of fullsome speeches - great rhetoric - about the iniquities of this war, but those speeches have been made by rainbow heroes who speak from hindsight. They did not speak with me when I spoke with what I hope was foresight. If ever anybody in Australian politics has a right to feel justified in what he did - I hope I am being humble enough when I say this - I think I have. I think my justification has been borne out by what came out of the Pentagon papers. 
I led the Labor Party in those days and ] took the consequences of defeat. I was sabotaged for years before the campaign ended.  1  was importuned to shake the bloody hand of Marshal Ky in the national capital. I told the then Prime Minister that I would not shake his hand. A dinner was to be held in honour of Marshal Ky but they could not have a dinner without the Leader of the Opposition. You cannot present Hamlet without the prince or the ghost. Some people who had been to Saigon and who had been entertained by Marshal Ky were annoyed and disappointed with me. They would not man the barricades with me outside Parliament House or walk with me in any of the demonstrations that were held throughout Australia against Marshal Ky. Who supports Marshal Ky today? Nobody supports Marshal Ky today. I do not speak from a prepared document; I speak as does a Quaker - as the spirit moves me - and the spirit has moved me tonight to say that I am happy that the Government has decided to bring our troops back from Vietnam. I feel a humble pride in the fact that what  1  forecast in  1 964  has come true.  1  hope that the Government will arrange its foreign policies in such a way that we do not have to be involved in the defence of Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia or any other such place.  1  am not going to pull kids out of bed - or support anybody who wants to do it - and send them off because they have drawn a marble in the lottery of death. I am not going to send them out to kill or be killed in the interests of American capitalism. I am a socialist and I speak as I feel. Anybody can have a go at me if he wishes.  1  am not a stooge of Chou En-lai nor am I a stooge of Richard M. Nixon. I believe that we have a tremendous job to do to hold this country together during the periods of pressure that will be applied on it. Thirteen million of the best people in the world live in the  3  million square miles of country that is Australia. We are easily the best people in the world. None of my ancestors came here less than  125  years ago. I wish more like them were coming still. I wish more and more people could be attracted to our shores. 
I have been told that I am a racialist. I have racial pride, but so has every man, whatever the colour of his skin - yellow, black, brown or white. A man who is not proud of his race is not proud at all. I do not despise anybody else's colour, but we have been made differently and we have the right to defend our heritage. This country was made by the sweat and labour of people who have come here over the past 200 years. I do not want our energies dissipated in any more wars. 1 have been very happy to find that so many people have made the observation in recent times that we ought to get out of Vietnam. It is becoming respectable to say that we ought to get out of Vietnam. 
The Returned Services League, which was a great proponent of the idea of our participation in the war in Vietnam, has now - I give it credit for doing so - changed its view. I want to see this country developed; we all do. We all want to see it held as a citadel for the type of civilisation that we believe in. Democracy has a lot of faults; of course it has. Winston Churchill once said that democracy is the worst possible system of government in the world except for every other system of government. 
I have never done Alan Reid the honour of reading his books and I am not now reading anybody else's book; I am too busy writing my own. 1 will not imitate my predecessor, who wrote 'Afternoon Light'. There will not be much afternoon light in my book. There will be much more lightning and thunder. But that is not a plug. 

 Mr Speaker, 1 wish the Government had brought our men out of Vietnam earlier. I hope that it will reconsider Australia's defence strategy. I have no objection to the building up of a strong defence force in this country. I was a Minister in a wartime government that conscripted kids and other people to fight for the defence of this country and I would agree to that policy being adopted again if this country were threatened with an invasion by people who were near our shores. But I have been sickened by the hypocrisy and the humbug of the rainbow heroes that I have talked about who are trying to attract to themselves the honour and credit for what has been decided in recent years when they did not have the moral fibre to stand up and be counted when we walked the streets. Even if we did walk them alone, which was my challenge, we did demonstrate and we did make our protests. I am glad that I have lived to be a member of this Parliament still when the final chapter on that awful Vietnamese encounter is about to be written. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Will he provide a statement in tabular form showing in adjoining columns the number of (a) pure blood and (b) mixed-blood people from each Asian and African country who have been admitted to Australia in each of the years 1967-68, 1968-69 and 1969-70? 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What amount was spent on Immigration programmes in each of the years 1967-68, 1968-69 and 1969-70? 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many (a) boys and (b) girls passed the matriculation examination and were refused admission to universities because of the operation Of a quota system in (i) 1970 and (ii) 19717 
How many of these students were refused admission to each faculty where quotas had been established in these years? 
How many Asian and African students were admitted to Australian universities in these years. 
How many of these overseas students are enrolled in each faculty in universities from which qualified Australian students have been excluded because of the quota system? 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Will he consider taking steps to establish a committee of both Houses of the Parliament to examine the question of television and radio broadcasting by the Australian Broadcasting Commission and privately-owned television and radio companies? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to revelations in the United States of America of improper practices by the controllers of the Reader's Digest in that country. 
If so, will the Minister institute an investigation under the Trade Practices Act in order to discover to what extent similar practices are being practised in Australia. 
Can the Minister say whether thousands of Australians are being pressured by this company to accept and pay for unwanted publications that have never been ordered; if so, will he take remedial action to stop this practice. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
If the quota established as a result of the recent Census affects the number of seats in each Slate of the Commonwealth, will he arrange for a redistribution of electoral divisions for the House of Representatives to be made before the election of the 28th Parliament. 
If marked discrepancies in the number of electors in each electoral division in one or more States are found to exist, even if the number of divisions now allotted to each State does not need to be varied, will he give favourable consideration to a general redistribution. 
If a redistribution is undertaken, will the Government instruct the Chief Electoral Officer to make adequate allowances for the transfer of population now taking place throughout Australia and, in particular, the growth of population in each capital city. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What are the provisions of the last award handed down by the Arbitration Commission governing the pay and allowances of, and all cognate matters relating to. male and female journalists. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
What are the- names and the occupations of speakers engaged for the Australian Broadcasting Commission broadcast of Notes on the News. 
On how many occasions was each person concerned employed on this programme in 1969, 1970 and in 1971 to date, and what amount was paid to each person. 
Who decides which journalists shall be employed. 
Is preference shown to people with antiLabor records. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many times has the Joint Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House met since it was first formed on 3rd December 1965, and when did it meet last. 
On what dates has the Committee reported. 
When is it expected that the Committee will meet again. 
When is the House of Representatives to be given an opportunity to make the final decision on the site on which the new Parliament House is to be built. 
As one who intends to live to 100, provided I do not die in the meantime, I ask the Prime Minister a question about life assurance legislation. Firstly, will he initiate an inquiry into the provisions of the Life Assurance Act of 1949, which is now 22 years old, with a view to introducing amendments, if this is thought desirable, to its provisions so that policy holders will receive greater benefits than are prescribed in that legislation? Secondly, will he have an investigation made into the desirability of extinguishing the rights of private companies to engage in life assurance because under the Act as I understand it a private company can take 20 per cent of the profits - although they do not take anything like that amount - and so that people insured with such companies shall have greater benefits than they can now obtain? 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
As the detailed nature of the Journalists' (Metropolitan Daily Newspapers) Award, 1971, precludes its incorporation in Hansard (Hansard, 16th September 1971, page 1507), will he indicate (a) the salaries, (b) the hours of duty and provisions for overtime and (c) the allowances for (i) transport and (ii) clothing and dress contained in the award for each grade of journalist, male and female. 
Do any journalists receive entertainment allowances; if so, who are they and what is their entitlement in each case. 
I present the following  petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
That the immediate prospect in East Bengalis of mass starvation on a scale unprecedented in modern times. 
That only quick settlement of the Bangla DeshPakistan conflict will make it possible to avert the death of many millions. 
We therefore urge the Honourable Members to: 
Raise to $10m Australian aid to refugees now in India from East Pakistan. 
Support all efforts to guarantee the fully autonomous development of the people of Bangla Desh. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I desire to ask the Acting Prime Minister a question of great national importance. 
No. it is not. I ask the right honourable gentleman the following question: In view of the report of the Commonwealth Statistician that the census held in June last shows that Western Australia is now entitled to an increase in its representation in this House from 9 to 10 will he arrange for the Government to give early consideration (a) to a redistribution of the seats of this House before the next election; (b) to an increase in the number of seats for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory respectively from 1 to 2; and (c) to the passage of the necessary legislation to permit citizens of 18, 19 and 20 years of age to be enrolled as citizens of the Commonwealth before the next election? Secondly, will he arrange for the Minister for the Interior to make a statement, as soon as possible on the effect which the extension of the franchise to 18, 19 and 20 year olds will have on the numbers enrolled in each of the 125 electoral divisions represented in this House? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he ascertain what: 
Parliamentary Allowances 
Non-taxable electorate allowances, and 
other special monetary allowances are paid to- 
the Premier 
the Leader of the Opposition (iti) non-ministerial or special office holders such as the  Speaker  in each State Parliament. 
asked the Acting Prime Minister, upon notice: 
As it is the policy of the Australian Labor Party to abolish the Senate, will he give the House of Representatives alone an early opportunity to determine finally whether Capital Hill or Camp Hill will be the site for the new Parliament House. 
In view of (a) ' the desperate plight of the rural section of our society, (b) the gravity of inflation of our society, (b) the gravity of inflation now prevailing and (c) the extent of existing and threatened unemployment throughout Australia, will he consider putting the building of the new and permanent Parliament House once the site has been finally decided by the House of Representatives alone, among the lowest priorities of all national undertakings so that building will commence no earlier than somewhere between 1976 and 1980. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that for more than 20 years after World War II succeeding New Zealand Governments refused to' recognise the certificates of Australian citizenship granted to German, Greek, Italian, Dutch and other European-born residents of this country to the extent that any such person who visited New Zealand was required to report to the nearest police station weekly. 
ls ii also a fact that the late  Mr Leo  Buring, a distinguished Australian citizen who was naturalised on his father's certificate when he was only 7 years old, was compelled by the New Zealand Immigration Department, when he visited that country about 12 years ago at the age of 70, to also suffer the indignity of having to report to  a  police station. 
If the position is as stated, will he arrange for the Department of Foreign Affairs to advise the New Zealand High Commissioner in Australia that Australia refuses to recognise any validity  in  the claim of the New Zealand Government that any Indian, Fijian, Samoan, Tongan, Cook Islander or Asian- who has been granted New Zealand citizenship has an automatic right to  bs  admitted to Australia in the same way as  a  European New Zealander or  a  Maori New Zealand citizen is automatically admitted if not debarred on health or security grounds, or because of a criminal record. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it the intention  of  the Government to amend the Income Tax Assessment Act following the recent decision  of  the High Court in favour of the Investment and Merchant Finance Corporation. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees to an extent that we are moved with great compassion and a sense of urgency. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled should: 
Grant the income tax deductions for donations over $2 made towards the relief of overseas disaster areas. 
Effect this with haste to ensure the maximum possible aid to those al present in refugee camps and those in danger of famine in East Pakistan. And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members' of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in south-west Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area is of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
How many officers ' are now listed 'for transfer from (a) Melbourne and (b) Sydney when the Government resumes its programme of transfers of Commonwealth departments to Canberra. 
What departments and instrumentalities are on the transfer list. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is- it a fact that the Mutual Life and Citizens Fire and General insurance Company Pty Ltd (a) is not a mutually owned and controlled company and (b) . pays its shareholders a 10 per cent dividend each year out of its profits. 
Will he furnish (a) the name of, (b) the assets value of, (c) the profit made by, (d) the amount paid in dividends by and (e) the number of shareholders in each of the private companies which deal in life assurance business for the latest year for which figures are available. 
Will the Government take action to increase substantially the deposit of all companies, which deal in life, accident, marine, fire, motor car or any other form of insurance and in which foreign interests have shares or are otherwise financially involved. 
Will the Government take appropriate steps for a referendum to be held to increase the powers of the Commonwealth Parliament so that valid laws can be' enacted to protect the victims of bushfires, floods, droughts and other natural disasters that are exercisable under the defence power in time of war and are described in legal terminology as being due to acts of God. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice:  fi) What is the latest estimated population of Canberra. 
What is the total expenditure by. the Commonwealth of Australia on the foundation and development of Canberra to date. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
In view of the fact that the Soviet Union is never likely to be a threat to the integrity of Australia whereas Communist China might pose such a threat twenty or more years hence, will he do everything possible to encourage peaceful relations in trade, tourism, culture, medicine, literature and science with the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 
I do not often intrude in these debates. It is many years since I have spoken on the motion for the adjournment. 1 wish to make some observations on 2 matters tonight. As the father of the House, I wish to congratulate the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on the fact that today is his 64t*i birthday. I wish him, his wife and family many long years of happiness and good health together, but I am not wishing him a long political life. I hope that he remains Prime Minister until the country elects a red-blooded socialist Labor government. 
 I would like an assurance that it will be a red-blooded one. However,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I shall con.tinue my discussions with the honourable member for Hindmarsh later, though I do congratulate him on the fact that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  backed him against Tom Dougherty and somebody else who wanted to remove him. I am on his side for once. 
I refer to a question that I put on the notice paper on 9th December last to which I have not had an answer yet. The question reads as follows: 4932  Mr Calwell:  To ask the Minister for Defence - 
Do official records disclose that Messrs B. A. Santamaria, K. Mitchell and F. K. Maher were exempted from service in World War II. 
If so, was it because they were engaged in work of national importance. 
If the work was of national importance, what was the nature of it. 
If the reason for exemption was not because of engagement in work of national importance, what were the grounds for exemption. 
Is it a fact that no exemptions from service in World War II were granted unless applications to the appropriate authorities were submitted by those concerned, and were approved. 
If so, how did these persons evade wai service. 
I have made a lot of mistakes in my life and I have gone on record as saying that half the problems that I have encountered in life 1 have created for myself. I do not think I have to make any more concessions to my political enemies than that. But I made a great mistake on this occasion and I want, to put the record straight because apparently the Department of Defence cannot find any of the records nor can the Department of Labour and National Service. In 1942 I was approached by the late Archbishop Mannix of Melbourne through his Vicar-General asking me to obtain exemptions from military service for Messrs Santamaria, Mitchell and Maher on the grounds that they were  members  of the secretariat of Catholic Action and that their work was equivalent to that of a minister of religion. I agreed to do this. Had I known what was to happen in the future I would not have done it, but  1  accept the responsibility for what I did. I had a fondness for the late Archbishop Mannix and I say unashamedly that I actually wept when I knew he had died. I saw him arrive in Australia and I saw him die. 
Archbishop Mannix was a good friend of the Labor Party in the early days of the Curtin Government. The Menzies Government had interned 2 men, Ratliff and Thomas, on the grounds that they were Communists and  Dr Evatt,  then AttorneyGenera), released them. I did not know that at that particular time, but, of course, the professional Communophobes - if there are any students of English left in the chamber they will know what I mean - wanted to attack the Labor Government for that action. But Archbishop Mannix wrote to  Dr Evatt  and congratulated the Labor Party on what it had done. The efforts that were made in some particular regions to get a condemnation by the Roman Catholic Church of what  Dr Evatt  had done failed because  Dr Evatt  announced that he had received a message from  Dr Mannix  saying that he approved of the Labor Government's action. Of course one could not condemn the Labor Government unless one had the signature of Daniel Mannix and that was never obtained. 
I know that some of these records are extant. I know where they are and I hope that the whole truth will be told; but I could never find anything in the Evatt records. I asked his widow once about it all and she said: *Well, you know, Bert was a lawyer and if he had a document that he used in a particular instance or a particular case he destroyed it once the need to use it had passed'. I hope that whoever has his records in the Flinders University in South Australia can find that record. But I do remember well what happened on that particular occasion and, as I have said, I regret my part in it. However, I suppose that in the circumstances, with a man as famous, as tremendously powerful and, at that particular time, as good a man as the late Archbishop Mannix was, I would do the same again. But it all happened. 
I want the country to know that 3 men who have been pestering, opposing and demonstrating against the Australian Labor Party for the last 30 years dodged military service - even though I was responsible for it - and others had to take their place. 1 hate the fact that these people who benefited from an act of generosity on the part of the Curtin Labor Government lived to become vicious opponents of the Labor Party in the Vietnam war and supported the conscription of Australians to fight in that filthy, immoral, indefensible, genocidal civil war. I regret too that the people who benefited from our generosity did not beget any children who went out to fight in the war in Vietnam which we described as immoral. Their sons were exempted, all of them, because they were employed in reserved institutions as were their fathers. 
Of course they were. None of these breeds served in any war to defend Australia yet they are standing over this Government and saying: 'Do not let the Russians come into the Indian Ocean because they can menace the security of Australia'. We have no right to tell the 
Russians, the Americans, the Japanese or anybody else where they shall deploy their fleets. I do not like the idea of a Japanese fleet again in the Indian Ocean but I am not going to associate myself with any attempt by anybody to tell the Russians that they must not deploy their fleet or any of their ships in the Indian Ocean. I would welcome the Russians to the Indian Ocean because in the world of today I would rather see in the Indian Ocean powerful people who might be friendly to us than make enemies of them so that they will be opposed to us in the future. I do not want war. I do not want violence. I always want peace and 1 think it behoves me, in conscience, to tell the truth about these particular creatures whom I have mentioned tonight. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Can he state the attitude of Communist China, Japan, India, Pakistan. Ceylon, Malaysia. Burma and the governments of South East Asia to the admission to their respective countries of Australians, New Zealanders, Americans and Canadaians. who happen to be white skinned people. 
Is Australia's attitude to prospective migrants from non-white nations much more generous than that now prevailing in the nations mentioned. 
Can he say whether it is more difficult for a white person to obtain a visa to enter Asian countries for a temporary visit than it is for a nonwhite person to obtain a visa to enter Australia. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek an opportunity to clarify a statement I made last night concerning  Mr Santamaria, Mr Maher  and  Mr Mitchell.  I do this in justice to a man who has sent me a telegram. There are more  Mr K.  Mitchells in the world than one and the man who sent me the telegram I hold is Keith Mitchell. Secretary of the Hospital Employees Federation of Australia, Victorian No. 1 Branch. The K. Mitchell to whom I referred is Ken Mitchell. I spoke to  Mr Deputy Speaker  about this and he said that this would be the opportunity to read the telegram and put the record straight. The telegram reads: 
Seeking your kind assistance clarification reference K. Mitchell Parliament yesterday. I was 11 years of age in 1942 and 16 years of agc end of war. As prominent Victorian trade union secretary have suffered loss damage embarrassment and distress by, widespread assumption I am parson you mentioned. Earnestly seek your kindness generosity in prompt clarification. Also distressed as am not and never will be anti-Labour. Regards . . . Keith Mitchell Secretary Hospital Employees Federation of Australia Victorian Number One Branch  lt was not Keith Mitchell to whom 1 was referring. I know Keith Mitchell well and esteem him very much. I also had a telephone conversation with a professor at Monash University who told me that he and 2 other professors objected to certain things which I said about  Mr Frank  Maher and they are writing a letter to the Melbourne 'Age' tomorrow. They say - and I think in justice to  Mr Maher  that I should mention what was told to me for the first time - that he has 2 sons who were knocked about in a motor accident and were not eligible for service in Vietnam. He has another son who is a doctor and who served for a period in Vietnam. 1 stand by everything else I said but I must do justice to those who feel they have been wronged in any way. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Did he state in answer to my question No. 3151 that preference is not shown by the Australian Broadcasting Commission to people with anti-Labor records when engaging speakers for Notes on the News (Hansard, 28 th September 1971, pages 1592-4). 
Are pressmen, such as D. G. M. Jackson, J. D. Pringle, Emery Barcs and J. Bennets, more or less constantly engaged by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
If so, has it been made known to him or the Commission that views of these men towards the Australian Labor Party and its policies are well known and much resented. 
Will he have their speaking engagements reviewed. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has he been resisting pressure from certain professional Communophobes belonging to a fanatical right-wing political faction in matters affecting the defence of this nation; if so, will he continue to do so. 
Can he say whether the members of this group who presume to give the Government their unsought advice on the question of defence are men who have never seen service in any war and have sons who have avoided service in Vietnam. 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
Do official records disclose that Messrs B. A. Santamaria, K. Mitchell and F. K. Maher were exempted from service in World War II. 
If so, was it because they were engaged in work of national importance. 
If the work was of national importance, what was the nature of it. 
If the reason for exemption was not because of engagement in work of national importance, what were the grounds for exemption. 
Is it a fact that no exemptions from service in World War 11 were granted unless applications to the appropriate authorities were submitted by those concerned, and were approved. 
If so, how did these persons evade war service. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he give consideration to the suggestion that the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory be represented in the Senate by 2 Senators each. 
If so, would such an addition to the size of the Senate entitle the House of Representatives to be increased by 8. 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General: Will he suggest to his colleague the AttorneyGeneral that an examination be made of the recent judgment of the High Court of Australia in the concrete pipes case with a view to determining whether the Commonwealth Parliament possesses power to pass laws in respect of prices? When the examination has been completed will he advise this House and the nation of the result of it? If it is felt that the judgment does not give the Parliament power to control prices, will be give consideration to the taking of a referendum for an amendment of the Constitution to add prices as a new placitum to section 51 of the Constitution? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will the Government give consideration to increasing substantially grants made to institutions caring for children suffering from handicaps and disabilities of various kinds and of different severities that will probably effect them all their lives. 
Can he say whether most, if not all, of the institutions concerned are now facing bankruptcy. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
In addition to giving further consideration to increasing Australia's financial contribution to the United Nations for the relief of the 5 to 6 million East Pakistani refugees in India, will he appeal to all Pakistani and Indian doctors; now in Australia, to show some patriotic interest in the sufferings of their fellow countrymen, women and children and return immediately to East Pakistan or India where their medical skills are much more urgently needed than they are in Australia. 
Will he discuss with his colleague, the Minister for Immigration, how best to discourage and delay the entry into Australia of any more expatriate Pakistani and Indian doctors while hundreds of thousands of emaciated and disease ridden Pakistani and Indian people are dying from malnutrition and a lack of medical attention. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will he circularise Pakistani and Indian doctors resident in Australia asking them to return to their own countries to help their fellow nationals, or their former fellow nationls, with their medical skill in order to alleviate the terrible sufferings of the people of their respective countries. 
asked the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs, upon notice: 
Did a considerable number of Opposition members not attend the recent function arranged by the Government in Parliament House, in Canberra, in honour of General Soeharto, the  President  of Indonesia. 
Can he say whether somewhere between half a million and one million Indonesians lost their lives when the Soeharto regime seized power some years ago. 
Was it alleged at the time that the people who lost their lives were members or supporters of the pro-Chinese Communist Party in Indonesia. 
Has he any information which would lead him to believe that there is any difference between General Soeharto of Indonesia and Air ViceMarshal Ky of South Viet Nam in the methods employed by these Asian militarists in opposing their political opponents, Communist or otherwise. 
asked the Minister for the 
Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Will he give early consideration to the introduction of an Archives Bill to establish an archives section in his Department, or in the National Library, to receive and classify and make available for examination and study by historians and students and other people genuinely interested, records of historical significance from all Government departments since Federation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
When does the Government propose to give this House an opportunity to decide where the new and permanent Parliament House shall be built. 
Is it likely that the matter will not be raised in the life-time of this Parliament. 
I would like to ask the  Chairman  of the Publications Committee a question on the printing of papers. How many more documents are before the Committee for consideration and recommendation to this House that they be printed? The Budget session is coming on and if more information could be circulated to honourable members in printed form it would, I believe, greatly assist in the consideration of the Budget Papers or in the consideration of the principles on which the Budget is based. 

 Mr ERWIN (Ballaarat) - in reply -We have long lists of documents submitted to the Joint Committee at regular intervals and from those documents we choose the ones that we feel, in the interests of this House and the nation, should be printed. At this stage I would not be able to tellthe right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  how many more documents there are before the Committee because the documents are submitted regularly and we usually deal with them at 3-weekly intervals. I hope that answers the question asked by the right honourable gentleman. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Will he instruct all postmasters to refuse to deliver any mail to any residence or business premises anywhere in Australia if the street number of the residence or business premises - is not properly displayed in the same way as was required under the National Security Regulations in World War II. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on 10th December 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for health and wellbeing. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate - 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs, of social service pensioners- hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical; hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy', chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme: in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Similar petitions were presented by  Mr Stewart, Dr Klugman, Dr Cass  and  Dr Jenkins. 
Petitions severally received. 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister for Labour and National Service. He is having a busy day. Is it a fact that negotiations between the Australian Federation of Air . Pilots and Qantas Airways Ltd for increases of up to 72.2 per cent, which would, mean a salary increase from $30,595 to $51,035 a year for a Boeing 747 captain, have broken down? 
Do not tempt me. It might be more than some people deserve. What is the Government's attitude to such a large annual salary and such a vast increase in take home money annually? Has the Government intervened in this case, as it did before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the national wage case recently, to urge moderation in wage demands so as to restrain inflation and all the evils that flow from inflation which hit people who live on fixed incomes and social services so badly? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr ACTING SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Does the right honourable gentleman claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. Standing Order  64  provides that if I obtain leave from the Chair I might be given an opportunity to explain matters of a personal nature. Yesterday a letter appeared in the 'Canberra Times' under the heading 'Multi-racial Society'. We have heard a little about that lately. This letter was signed by  4  people, none of whom I know and none of whom I had ever heard of before. It was a wild, abusive letter, but they had the right to put their point of view. I did not disagree with that right. I did not even take the trouble to reply to the letter. However, in today's Sydney Morning Herald' this appeared: 
Envoys attack claim by MP. 
Mark the word 'envoys': 
Canberra, Monday. - Four senior Australian diplomats today attacked statements made last week by the former Opposition Leader,  Mr Calwell. 
I am sure that the Department of Foreign Affairs gave no permission to  4  senior diplomats or to  4  junior diplomats to attack me, and to me it was a gross misuse of authority on the part of any member of the staff of the Department of Foreign Affairs to use his office to attack me in this way. I have found out that these so-called  4  senior Australian diplomats are  4  very junior employees in the Department. 
They cannot be senior because 2 of them are only 28 years of age. I have tremendous respect for the honourable member for St George, who is a very capable man and has served Australia very well. He has the distinction of having been expelled twice from Russia while he was in the service of Australia. 
asked the Minister  for  Shipping and Transport, upon notice:  - (1) What is the present position in regard to the proposed railway link between Yass and Canberra. 
Has any date been set for the commencement of the project. 
asked the Minister for 
Immigration, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article in the 'Weekend News' of Perth, Western Australia, dated 16th October 1971, in which it was announced that an Anglo-Burmese (Eurasian) family, consisting of a father and mother and 10 children, had arrived in Western Australia shortly before that date. 
If so, is this family one of a number of big families of homeless, jobless and almost penniless Eurasians who are arriving in Western Australia owing hundreds of dollars to airline companies that brought them here. 
Can he say whether these unassisted people, who are mostly Anglo-Burmese and Anglo-Indian Christians, refuse to help their native Christian brethren by remaining with them to help withstand the brunt of fanatical Buddhist hostility to Christianity. 
How many of these escapists have been admitted to Australia from Burma, India, Ceylon and other African and Asian countries since 1966. 
Is it a fact as stated in the article, that the new arrivals, despite some help from church welfare agencies or close relatives who are virtually new arrivals themselves, live by borrowing money, accepting low-paid jobs, paying lowstandard rentals and on handouts of food, clothes, furniture and hire purchase. 
Is it a fact that an Indian family of four, consisting of a father, mother and two adult daughters, arrived with only $7 each. 
Can he say whether the Rev. Father Nicholas Mcsweeney, Director of Catholic Immigration, has claimed that he has helped hundreds of Eurasians from Burma and India to come to Australia. 
Is it a fact that Western Australia has experienced the second biggest flood of Eurasians into Australia and that some authorities estimate the coloured flood at 5,000 a year. 
If there Is to be any reduction in our immigration intake, will he see that British, Irish and European people will be given precedence over people whose presence endangers, and will continue to endanger, the social, wage and housing conditions of Australians, whether bom here or naturalised. 
Will he urge the Catholic immigration authorities in every State and the World Council of Churches to concentrate their efforts on helping Australian Aborigines and part-Aborigines on the principle that charity begins at home. 
 I have not delayed the House or the Committee very often or for very long in the years since I retired from the leadership of the Australian Labor Party, but there is something I want to bring to the attention of the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp).  I presume that he is the responsible Minister. I have here some exhibits which are a product of William Butler Tobacco Co. Ltd, 50 Marshall Street, Surry Hills, Sydney. The brand of the tobacco is  Dr Pat.  It is an Irish mixture. It is just a lot of stalk which Australians are expected to smoke. I will hand these to the Minister. 
 1  well remember the day when a very distinguished colleague of mine, the Honourable John J. Dedman, got the permission of the House to erect a blackboard in this House in order that he might explain his economic theories. That was a famous occasion. This sort of rubbish, which T have produced, is being sold to the Australian people. I remember before I came to this House, back about 1940, when Australian pipe smokers were able to get pure Virginia leaf. After that time, and during the war, the Australian tobacco manufacturers chopped up the stalks, impregnated them with something or other, and included them with their products. The situation has followed that pattern ever since. I do not want to anticipate a debate or a measure that is coming forward, but I have a very strong feeling that many thousands of dollars - perhaps hundreds of thousands of dollars - are being spent by the tobacco interests to try to save themselves from the Government's legislation. I know that a lot of commercial television stations will lose many thousands of dollars a year if the Government's legislation is passed, and I hope it will be passed. 
I have a telegram from a very good friend of mine, MacAlister Blain, who was a member of this Parliament for many years. He went to the war and he was a guest of the Japanese. He holds very strong feelings about it all. I cannot do what he wants me to do, and that is to read his telegram in full. But he said: 
My hearty congratulations your stand multiracial. 
Then he says: 
Give those white corpuscle vote cadgers their medicine. 
Well, I have tried to do that. He wants me to mention his name - MacAlister Blain of 40 Tombonda Drive, Kiama. He said further: 
Disgraceful black power salute - 
I suppose he was referring to what happened at Government House in Melbourne - 
. proves our policy and American dilemma. Multi-racial for sooth  i  should know. Kind regards from your friend another red blood. 
But I rose to continue a little debate that I have had with the National Civic Council. I put a question on the notice paper on 2nd December last and I was told by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  that all the records had been destroyed. There was no reference to the fact that I had made any representations to the government of the day for an exemption from national service for  Mr Santamaria  and 2 other people. The Melbourne 'Herald' did a very good job on this matter and produced a very good documentary report. I do not want to go over it all, but I did say in the course of my remarks that I had made representations to the Government for the exemption from national service of  Mr Santamaria  who is the  President  of the National Civic 
Council which I said was a predominantly Roman Catholic organisation which claims that it has about 5,000 members devoted to fighting communist influences in unions, politics and other areas. 
In the course of my remarks I said that 3 persons had been exempted from service and that I had made representations on behalf of each of them.  Mr Santamaria  denied all this but he would not submit himself to an interview by representatives of the Press nor would he appear on television to discuss the matter. 1 had a feeling that he was prevaricating at the worst and equivocating at the best. Being rather tenacious as well as having a sense of history I thought I should pursue the matter further. The other 2 people involved were  Mr F.  K. Maher and  Mr Kenneth  W. Mitchell. All I said was that the late Bishop of Sale, Bishop Lyons, who was formerly the Vicar-General in Melbourne, had asked me to have these 3 gentlemen exempted because their work was equivalent to that of a chaplain in the forces or a person pursuing some work in a spiritual sense of interest to the nation.  Mr Santamaria  said that I had claimed to have sought military exemption for  Mr Maher, Mr Mitchell  as well as himself. He then said that both  Mr Maher  and  Mr Mitchell  had informed him that they were beyond military age and the call-up did not apply to them. The truth of the matter is that at that time  Mr Mitchell  was 37 years old. 
I remember that dreadful period well, when the Japanese were almost breathing down our necks. The government of the day decided that all men who were eligible for service could be conscripted in 5 classifications and among these classifications were married men and widowers without children, aged 18 to 35, and married men and widowers with children, aged 35 to 45. It is true that at that time  Mr Mitchell  was 37 years of age but had the war situation deteriorated further it is certain that he would have been called up, so he was never really exempted by virtue of his age. I made application on behalf of these 3 persons and they were exempted.  Mr Maher  came out of this business very well. He said he thought he had been exempted because he was a member of Catholic Action. He said that Archbishop Mannix might have had 'some discussion with him' about an exemption from service. He said also: 1 think I was too old for military service, and the service would have been with the Allied Works Council.  I  am not sure if I applied for any exemption, but it would have been because of valuable work I was doing in the Church.' 
I apologise to the House and to the nation, and say that had I known what was going to happen in the future I would never have applied for exemption for these people.  Mr Santamaria  is now 56,  Mr Mitchell  is 66; and  Mr Maher  is about 68.  Mr Maher  told the truth much more than did the others. 1 am sure from what I saw at Rowville in the war period, with men of 35 with three or four children conscripted and in training, that had the Japanese managed to land anywhere in Australia and had they bombed Sydney these people would have been called up. In fact, the Japanese did enter Sydney Harbour in submarines and they shelled Vaucluse from the Pacific Ocean. 
Yes, they shelled Bondi. They also put a shell into the Broken Hill Pty Ltd works at Newcastle, but the shell failed to explode. 
Yes but he was away and performing his duty in the forces very meritoriously and he did not apply for an exemption. What I said on the former occasion was quite true. I did not have an answer to the question that 1 asked in the House on 9th December last. The Minister said that no records were available. 1 thank the Minister for Defence for what he has done in this matter. He was not satisfied that all the records had been destroyed and he pursued the matter further. Subsequently I received from the Minister for Defence a letter dated 23rd March 1972 which reads: 
In my written reply to your question on notice concerning exemptions from military service in World War 11 for Messrs Santamaria, Mitchell and Maher, I informed you that Commonwealth records relating to individual exemptions were destroyed over 20 years ago. This was bas:d on written evidence to my Department that relevant records bad been searched. 
I have now been, advised that, although records relating to exemptions have been destroyed, some papers relating to applications for deferment have been held on a sample basis. These include records showing that, apparently al the behest of the Catholic Archbishop of Melbourne, the Right Honourable J. H. Scullin. M.P., sought a deferment for  Mr Santamaria  and another person, and that in December 1941 a deferment for at least 6 months was given by Army authorities. This deferment was given to enable consideration to be given to alternative arrangements for the performance of the duties carried out by these 2 people. 

 Mr Santamaria said he had been approached by a  Mr Malcolm,  Director of the Rural Affairs Division of the Victorian Branch of Labour and National Service. A spokesman for the Department said that papers relating to incidents and people of that period were not of permanent interest and were discarded, on the advice of the Commonwealth Archives, when the economy moved off a war footing. The Department's spokesman said also that the department had no idea who  Mr Malcolm  was and had no record of a  Mr Malcolm  having approached a  Mr Santamaria  suggesting that he could offer better service out of the Army by looking after rural matters and encouraging the production of food.  Mr Santamaria  is reported as having said: 
I think the Minister for Defence has given the lie completely to  Mr Santamaria's  pretensions and I hope that now he has been exposed he will at last agree to be interviewed by the Press and to appear on television and answer questions, perhaps on This Day Tonight', or for that matter on any other day or night or even tomorrow on a television programme. Things were done during the war that perhaps should never have been done in the matter of exemptions from war service and I admit that in a way I was a party to what happened in the cases I have quoted. 
I do not want to harm the future prospects of  Mr Maher  in semi-retirement, because he is a good man, nor of  Mr Mitchell,  but  Mr Mitchell  should have told the truth. He has 2 sons aged 31 and 30 who might have served in Vietnam so I suppose it pays to belong to the National Civic Council or the DLP - the demented lunatic party. 
None of those in the other House. 
I do not know how many members of the DLP served in World War II but whenever I look at  Senator Gair  on television I look at an animated toad that croaks like a frog. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What were the unemployment figures for each year from August 1945 to August 1972. 
What was the proportion of unemployed to employed in each of those years. 
The Americans have a famous saying and that is: 'Where there is smoke there is cancer'. I agree with it and I want to warn members of Parliament that if they are voting for this Bill they must do it in all due honesty. No Party at Federal or State level and no member or candidate of any party should take any money that the tobacco interests are prepared to spend in order to maintain their campaign, succeed in their campaign or in a continuation of a system where people can smoke if they like. I am opposed to the whole thing. I think that smoking even in the best of circumstances is a filthy habit and nobody should encourage it. Somebody has raised the question of nationalisation of television. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! I ask the right honourable gentleman to relate his remarks to the amendment 
1 was led astray by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who said that the Australian Labor Party's policy was to nationalise television stations. So it was, but the present Government altered our policy. The Australian Labor Party provided for  nationalisation of television stations and the Government of which I was a member laid it down in legislation. I do not want to proceed any further on that other than to say that we in the Opposition are great nationalisers - banking, insurance and everything else - because we are socialists. I am not in favour of running away from anything. But to get back to smoking; smoking is a hazard. I hope we will do everything we can to influence the Australian people to abandon their smoking habit and not cultivate it. When this Bill comes to a vote I hope we will all act honestly and when the siren voices say to us: 'You can get some money from us if you want provided you support our compaign*, I hope we will be like Ulysses and strap ourselves to the mast and refuse to be perverted. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
In view of the difficulties being experienced in providing seating accommodation for diplomats, former members of this House, serving senators and other people who have legitimate reasons for seeking accommodation in the Chamber at Question Time, will he consult with the appropriate authorities with  a  view to enlarging the House of Representatives by placing the Speaker's Chair under the eastern gallery. 
At the same time will he consult with  Mr Speaker  with a view to helping the ever increasing number of visitors to the House to obtain seating accommodation by evicting pressmen from the southern gallery which they have occupied since about 1935 and restoring it to the purpose for which it was originally intended. 
asked the F '^aster-General, upon notice: 
Has any consideration been given to the extension of the district telephone zone in the capital city of each State. 
If not, will he instruct his Department to undertake an investigation of such an extension because of its importance to the establishment of industries and the consequent growth of population in the ever growing outer areas of each of the cities. 
Is it a fact that these extensions could be some contribution to the cause of decentralisation. 
Will he have his Department consider 'he enlargement of each district zone, which now appear to reach a limit in most cases of 20 to 26 miles, to a limit of 50 to 70 miles. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that four Japanese companies propose to invest $94m in an alumina project in the north-west of Western Australia. 
If so, does this amount to a further takeover of Australian resources by our enemies in World War II. 
Is it the intention of the Government to approve this investment. 
For how long will the Government stiffer Japanese capitalists to invest in Australian industries, or to make investments by their own companies, to the future danger to the security of this nation. 
When does the Government propose to block all further investment of British, United States and Japanese capital in Australian secondary and primary industries. 
What have the Japanese people, who perpetrated such dreadful atrocities on Australian servicemen and women and on the natives of New Guinea, done since World War II to deserve the sort of preferential treatment which they are now receiving from Australia with the seeming support of Australian capitalistic monopolies. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Because of ever increasing air travel in Australia and between Australia and foreign countries, will the Minister direct Trans-Australia Airlines, Ansett Airlines of Australia and all airlines using the international sections of Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) and Tullamarine Airports to increase the number of aerobridges that are now in service and, where none exist, will the Minister take early action, particularly at Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport, to have these modern facilities installed. 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Can the Minister say whether Russia graduates 30,000 fully qualified medical practitioners a year which is equivalent to one doctor for every 7,800 people in the USSR. 
Is it a fact that Australia is graduating only 1,000 fully qualified medical practitioners a year which is equivalent to one doctor for every 13,000 people in Australia. 
If so, can he indicate any reasons why Australia lags so far behind the USSR in graduating medical practitioners. 
Can he say whether the Australian Medical Association believes that Australia is producing (a) too many doctors or (b) not enough doctors, or whether it supports a plan to graduate just enough medical practitioners annually so as to preserve the present low ratio between doctors and patients as a result of which doctors from India and Pakistan are being imported to fill our current need for more medical practitioners. 
Have the Government or the universities in the various States any plans to facilitate the training of at least 1,000 more medical graduates a year. 
Why was this problem not given greater priority at least 10 years ago. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Were 1,571 companies registered in Norfolk Island at 1st January 1972 and 1,531 on 3rd March 1972. 
Are all these companies registered in Norfolk Island for the purpose of evading taxation. 
Can he say whether Vila is another tax evasion haven. 
Is it a fact that the Reserve Bank has placed no insurmountable barriers to the movement of capital or funds because these are channelled to other places; if not, what is the real position. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many (a) regular and (b) national servicemen have been (i) killed and (ii) wounded in Vietnam since 1st January 1967. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What are the titles and dates of all agreements made with other countries on all matters affecting immigration since 1945. 
I desire to ask the Prime Minister a question. Has he seen a report in today's 'Australian' that he had visited  Sir Robert  Menzies recently to secure advice on how to win elections? If so, is there any truth in the statement? Is there any justification for a man named Alan Ramsey, who acquired some notoriety here a little while back, to write such a story? Worst of all, is it a fact that one of his senior Ministers leaked this information to  Mr Ramsey? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice; 
When he is considering the personnel of the committee of inquiry into poverty in Australia, will he include a person who believes that it is impossible to abolish poverty under the capitalist system. 
Will the terms of reference of the committee include the question of remedies to be applied to the abolition of poverty and its concomitant evils. 
Will the terms of reference also include a definition of poverty and a definitionof the various categories of persons who are found to live povertystricken or underprivileged lives because of age, invalidity, illness and physical " or mental retardation. 
Has he any information as to whether all the Most Reverend, Right Reverend and Reverend gentlemen and the lay social workers who have called for an inquiry into poverty represent middle income groups and are completely opposed to socialism. 
If so, does this indicate that these persons are only trying, at best, to humanise capitalism in order to make it a little more bearable and a little less harsh. 
asked the Minister for the Environment. Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
When does the Government intend to commission a competent historian to write the history of Australia's participation in the Vietnam War. 
How far has the writing of Australia's participation in the Korean War proceeded to date. 
I ask the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts a question. Will the Minister release the list of internees from various European countries who travelled to Australia in the transport ship 'Dunera' which sailed from Liverpool on 10th July 1940 and arrived in Sydney on 7th September 1940? When is it likely that the Government will be able to release the report of the inquiry which followed charges of irregularities and ill-treatment meted out to the internees by some of the personnel of the transport ship 'Dunera'? 
I ask a question of the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. I refer to the answer which the honourable gentleman gave me last week about the ill treatment of internees brought to Australia from the United Kingdom on the 'Dunera' in September 1940. Has he been advised that details of the very real ill treatment of these internees were published in the British Hansard in 1941, when the House of Commons discussed the 'Dunera' scandal at great length? Does he also know that the commanding officer of the 'Dunera' guards, a  Major Scott,  and 2 sergeants subsequently were court martialled and that full reports of this court martial were published in the English Press? In view of this information will he now instruct the Commonwealth Archivist to make available the material relating to the 'Dunera' held in the Commonwealth archives to which the writer, Cyril Pearl, has been seeking access for over a year? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
In view of the increasing volume of work being undertaken by the Public Works Committee, will the Government take action to amend the Public Works Committee Act to provide for the appointment of a certain number of alternative members to serve on the Committee to fill the places of those members of the Committee who find they are unable to attend any meeting to which they are summoned. 
! asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
As there is no provision in the Commonwealth Electoral Act which requires political parties or any persons or person, other than candidates, to furnish returns supported by statutory declarations showing the amount spent by the parties or persons or a person in a Federal election campaign, for either or both Houses, will he take action to amend the Act so as to require all political parties and persons concerned to declare on oath how much has been spent by them in a Federal election campaign in the same way as is required by the laws operating in the United Kingdom in respect of Parliamentary elections in that country. 
Has it been brought to his notice that all 5 parties in the election campaign for 1972, i.e. the Liberal Party, the Country Party, the Australian Labor Party, the Australia Party and the Democratic Labor Party, are budgeting through their Federal and State bodies for an expenditure of not less than Sim each. 
Before I leave this Parliament I wish to refer to 2 bitter attacks that were made on the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and myself back in 1969 when he was still Prime Minister and' I had ceased 3 years earlier to be Leader of the Opposition. By a remarkable piece of telepathy, or because both articles were based on something that was supplied by a third party with an axe to grind, both articles appeared on the same day, 13th December 1969. One article which appeared in 'Nation' - now happily extinct - published in Sydney was headed The Leader of the Push'. It was based on the contents of a book entitled 'A Time to Speak' by Edward St John, a former member of this House. I do not blame him in any way for the article. The author of the article about which I complain called himself S. Encel. For some reason best known to himself Encel decided to pour the phials of his wrath on the head of the right honourable member for Higgins and for some reason I also was included in his list of abominations. The article was vindictive and bitter and full of lying rubbish. Encel wrote: 
Since  Mr Holt's  death and MrCalwell's retirement there has been a striking reversal of roles.It is the prima donna whois leading the Labor Party and the larrikin who is leading the Liberal Party, whereas under  Sir Robert  Menzies the reverse was true. 
I have never done anything to harm this contemptible creature who vilified me. Encel, who is a professor in the University of New South Wales, is a dishonoured and unrespected academic. It is he who had the audacity to call me a larrikin. I throw his insults back into his teeth. It is he, not I, who is a larrikin. For him to call me a larrikin shows that he is not only a larrikin, but also a liar and a lout. He continued in his article that the 1969 election campaign represents an important shift in the structure of political allegiance. The voting results demonstrated that it is now possible for the Labor Party to attract a sizable proportion of the votes of the middle classes'. 
Because I am a socialist who believes that the strength upon which the Labor Party is built lies with the trade union movement and not with middle class voters, Encel had the temerity to describe me as an incompetent larrikin. I have only one other comment to make about Encel, and that is that he has been hanging round the Labor Party for many years, smelling like a piece of rotten meat, in the hope that with a change of government he might be made head of a government department or given an ambassadorial post. Furthermore, I resent any character like Encel calling the Prime Minister of Australia, whoever he is, a larrikin, just as 1 protested against the action of another contemptible creature called Alan Ramsey who writes for a paper called the 'Australian', shouting from the Press Gallery not 2 years ago at the same Prime Minister and calling him a liar. 
The other person who wrote in the Melbourne 'Sun-Pictorial' on the same day is named Laurie Oakes. What he wrote is a disgrace not only to him but also to the Melbourne 'Sun-Pictorial' management which allowed his vicious libel against me and against the right honourable member for Higgins to appear. This is what Oakes wrote: 
At the beginning of the sixties the Liberals were led by  Sir Robert  Menzies, a lawyer with a silvertongued, silver-tailed image. Labor's standardbearer,  Mr Arthur  Calwell, was in the 'Larrikin Australian' tradition. Now, in  Mr Whitlam,  the Labor Party has a leader who bears a remarkable likeness to  Sir Robert. Mr Gorton,  the Liberal Prime Minister, who will lead Australia into the seventies, is being increasingly compared to  Mr Calwell. 
From information received, as the policeman says in the witness box, the discredited  Mr Oakes  hopes to be blanketed into a very important position in the Public Service if the Labor Party wins this election. I hope that he will not achieve his ambition if the Labor Party wins the coming, election. Every member of the Labor Party hopes that the Labor Party will win the coming election. I regard  Mr Oakes  as being nothing better than a mental prostitute. 
asked  the  Prime  Minister,  upon notice: 
Is it a fact that there has never been a Commonwealth Royal Commission into Insurance and Assurance and that the only State Government to have appointed a Roy.al Commission into these matters was the Dunstan Government in Victoria in 1937. 
Can he say whether there is widespread discontent among elderly policy holders who feel tha: most companies, mutually owned or otherwise, continue to build up unnecessarily large reserves and refuse to increase the benefits that older people, with policies covering 30 or more years, feel they are morally entitled to receive. 
Will he appoint a Royal Commission, to investigate all aspects of life insurance and assurance, fire, burglary, marine, accident, workers' compensation and every other form of insurance to establish what better benefits should be provided for insured persons. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many of the 62 Ugandan Asians with their 140 dependants, whose entry to Australia has been approved by his Department, have university qualifications which would seem to make them eligible and useful to this country. 
How many of those who are to be admitted are (a) medical graduates, (b) engineers and (c) dentists. 
What university qualifications do the remainder of the other approved Ugandan Asians possess to justify their admission to this country. 
How many of those approved have guarantees of housing and employment opportunities and what detailed information can he supply in respect of each case. 
To what extent are those approved foi admission being assisted and guaranteed by church and secular organisations. 
Has he any information which shows that the overwhelming majority of Australians do not want to see any Ugandan Asians brought to Australia and also that they feel strongly that the intake of 10,000 coloured and semi-coloured migrants, other than Chinese, should be reduced to no more than SOO annually. 
Will he tell the do-gooders who have been pressurising bis Department on African and Asian migration to exhaust themselves in doing something practical to help fair dinkum Australians to do something worthwhile for the Australian Aborigines who alone have a claim for justice and fair treatment by the Australian people. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What action has the Government taken to prevent or minimise the possibility of the hijacking of aircraft in Australia. 
Has a parly consisting of an Assistant Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department and two leading Commonwealth Police officers, now in the United States of America, been asked to report on the question of hijacking of aircraft in that and other countries. 
What lessons have been learnt from the recent tragedy at the Olympic Games in Munich following the capture of Israeli athletes and the attempted hijacking of an aircraft by members of the Palestinian Liberation Movement. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report from Peking which appeared in the Australian Press recently to the effect that venereal disease has been eradicated in Communist China. 
If so, has he any information with respect to this report. 
If necessary, will he ask some Australian Chinese Communophile who has visited China in recent times to assist him to determine the facts. 
If it is finally established that Communist China has eradicated venereal disease, why has Australia not been able to do the same. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Will he consider the issue  of  a special postage stamp to mark the diamond jubilee of the introduction of the first social service of its kind  in  the world, the maternity bonus, by, the Fisher Labor Government in 1912. 
I thank honourable members for their kindness. I wish to ask the Prime Minister a question. This is the last question that I will ever be able to ask in this House and it concerns peace - peace in Indo-China. I ask the right honourable gentleman: Are his relations with President Nixon so friendly and complete - and I hope they are - as to encourage him to believe that a negotiated peace settlement is likely to be achieved in Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia at any early date? 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, by no less an authoritative journal than the. 'Sydney Morning Herald'. 
Yes, another writ. This was in an advertisement inserted by (he Liberal Party or its propaganda machine. The advertisement enumerates all the benefits that are provided in. the Budget and expands upon them all but the heading to the advertisement is 'This is a Wonderful Budget'. 
I said " that. In the advertisement the words 'This is a Wonderful Budget' are attributed to  Mr Arthur  Calwell, former Leader of the Opposition. I was misrepresented in that portion only of what 1 said appeared. What I said was: This is a wonderful Budget. How could it be otherwise because everything that is good in it has been stolen from the Labor Party'. 
I thank the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  for their very generous remarks about my service in the Parliament. If I might speak on behalf of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser),  I thank them also for their remarks about his fine contributions to the debates and deliberations of this Parliament. I thank them all for remembering that I have been here for 32 years. I came here as the third member for Melbourne. I succeeded the late  Dr William  Robert Nuttall Maloney who held the, seat of Melbourne for 36 years. I have held it for 32 years. Two men have held the one seat for 68 years. It has never happened before; it will never happen again. In all the time that I have been privileged to serve I have done my best. No man can say more. I have had my failures; I have had my successes; I have had a lot of disappointments. 
In a democracy it is the people who really govern. Democracy rests on majority rule. There is nothing sacred about majority rule. It is a principle of order but not necessarily of justice. We, depend upon the commonsense of the people. In other words, in a democracy the people have the right to go wrong - and that is a sobering thought. It is very sobering for me because the people have been going wrong in Australia for 23 years. But be that as it may. That is all a matter of history. I have been privileged to serve in many capacities. I have a record of which I am very proud. I sat on the ministerial bench and the front Opposition bench for 23 years continuously. Although that has happened before, I do not think it will happen again. 
Governments come and governments go, or so the saying runs in English parlance. We have not really reached the standard that has been achieved in England where they change the government at every election or every second election. The Leader of the Opposition was on very dangerous ground when he quoted Pope Gregory the Great. The Leader of the Opposition said that Gregory, who had seen a lot of children in Rome, said in Latin: 
Non Angli sed angeli. 
In these ecumenical times the Leader of the Opposition might be trying to make those words mean: Not Anglicans but angels. The weakness of that argument is that Gregory the Great lived several hundred years before the Reformation. 
I am most touched by all that has been said tonight. I join with everybody else in wishing all of those retiring members of this Parliament who have served this country to the best of their ability length of days and a long life in retirement. As far as I am concerned, in my retirement I shall try to write books. I might even become a legal adviser on libel law. I am quite qualified. I am an Honorary Doctor of Laws. I was appointed, on the nomination of  Sir Robert  Menzies as Chancellor of the University of Melbourne, a very great seat of learning. I have sought no honours. I have appreciated any honours that have ever been given to me, but I never wanted any of them. I am proud to have them. I know I did not deserve them. As I have, said, I never sought them but I feel greatly honoured by whatever body in Australia has seen fit to say something kind about me and to give me some decoration. I esteem very greatly the fact that I am a member of  Her  Majesty's Most Honourable Privy Council and one. of the Queen's advisers. I am proud of the fact also that my church has given me a decoration which 1 did not deserve and which I did not desire but which I greatly esteem. 
I have listened to the tributes that have been paid to you,  Mr Speaker.  I think you have been too tolerant. There have been times when I yearned for the days of  Mr Speaker  Rosevear and  Mr Speaker  Cameron. There was not much argument then; you were named promptly. Whether or not there was justification for it, there was never any weakening on the part of the  Speaker.  With due respect to you,  Mr Speaker,  I think this House could do with a little more discipline. If you were to be here during the next Parliament I would hope that you would enforce it. I would like to join with other honourable members in paying a tribute to  Mr Ewens.  I think the laws of the Commonwealth of Australia are the best written laws in all Australia. They stand pre-eminent. We must have other men like  Mr Ewens  and those who write our laws so that judges can understand them. I have no complaint about judges - so far, at any rate. Nor do I have any complaint about juries. I think that we ought to build our institution to a greater eminence. This is the supreme elective body in the whole nation. We must maintain its prestige and its respect among all the people throughout Australia, and there must never be any attempt by any pressure group outside this Parliament to try to run the Parliament or to denigrate members of the Parliament who have served this country with great sacrifice to themselves and to their wives and children by their repeated absence from their homes. 
I thank the Leader of the Country Party for his references to my family relationship with his family. I remember his dear mother very well and I remember mourning with others her early death. I saw this young man grow from boyhood. I compliment him on the stature which he has attained, and I wish him well. To all of those other honourable members who have expressed goodwill to me I say: Thank you very much. I have not always been as kind and as generous as I should have been. I concede that half of the problems and the difficulties I have met in life I created for myself. I do not think I should make any further concessions to my political opponents and my critics than that. I will settle for half. When I leave these halls I will leave with the MacArthur thought: T shall return'. I shall have to come back again and see the Parliament in action. I think it will be a better Parliament after I have left it, not because of my absence but because I feel that the great majority of the Australian people are becoming more civic minded and more determined to maintain the prestige of this country and to do everything to ensure its success. 
The first and only time that we ever became a nation in reality was when our forces were assembled for service in World War I. That is the only time that the people of Australia ever fought under one flag. Australians have fought with distinction on many battlefields. 
I conclude by saying that I hope the world is moving towards peace. Peace is everything. Let us have a world of peace. Let us have SO years of peace. Let us have  50  years of just laws, then wars and all the ravages that come from wars and all the other evils that we see in the world will vanish. I wish everybody a merry Christmas and a happy New Year. I shall watch events as they unfold and on the night of the election I will be totting up the results too. When the results come out and not until then, I shall make a few sapient remarks. 
asked  the  Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the declaration, signed by Professor E. G. Saint who was Dean of the Faculty of Medicine in the University of Queensland, which appeared in the West Australian' on 20th November 1963, in support of a claim that Australia's immigration policy needed reappraisal so that our restrictiveness should balance a regard for our national interests with some concern for the susceptibilities of our coloured neighbours; if so, why was Professor Saint appointed a member of the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications in March 1969. 
Is the Government satisfied that Professor Saint, as a member of the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications, has acted in such a way as to preserve the high medical standards of Australia and that he has supported the decisions of branches of the Australian Medical Association and the various medical boards to make sure that Indian and Pakistani doctors who possess only the highest qualifications are admitted to practise in Australia. 
Will he make available that part of any recent report of the Committee on Overseas Professional Qualifications which deals specifically with the medical qualifications, now demanded or to be demanded, of medical practitioners seeking to be admitted to Australia from India, Pakistan, Uganda and the Caribbean Islands. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that both Canada and New Zealand have a separate National Anthem as well as  '000*  Save The Queen'. 
If so, why cannot Australia have its own National Anthem as well as 'God Save The Queen'. 
If there is no valid objection to an Australian Anthem, when does the Government intend to give the people of Australia an opportunity to produce an Australian equivalent to 'La Marseillaise' and 'The Star Spangled Banner'. 
asked the Minister  for  Immigration, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a reported statement by,  Dr Alan  McLean of Newcastle, New South Wales, that it was a widely held opinion that the standard of doctors in Australia was being eroded by the admission to this country of some Asian doctors. 
How many Indian and Pakistani doctors with qualifications below those required by Australian universities entered Australia during the last 5 years. 
Have a number of medical boards in the Australian States laid down a requirement that Indian and Pakistani doctors must submit themselves for examination before their overseas qualifications are recognised; if so, which State medical boards have done so and with what results. 
Is it a fact that not more than 20 per cent of Asian medical students applying are passed for admission to the medical faculties of Australian universities. 
As many leading Australian physicians and surgeons visit Asian universities each year to examine, lecture and demonstrate to undergraduates, and many of these universities, in .particular the University, of Singapore, now have medical standards almost comparable with those of Australian universities, why does the Goverment allow the westernised sons of wealthy westernised Asians to come to Australia to secure an education which they can obtain at home while Australianborn students of both European and Asian origins are being denied admission to universities in Sydney and Melbourne because  of  the practice referred to. 
Will the Government prohibit the influx of any more Asian students, other than Colombo Plan students, who desire medical education in Australia because their education may only be at the expense of the Australian-born boys and girls referred to previously. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will he give urgent consideration to (a) an increase in the interest rate paid on Commonwealth Savings Bank deposits, (b) making the amount of interest added annually to Commonwealth Savings Bank deposits tax free and (c) amending the Commonwealth Bank Act to allow the whole of the net profits of the Commonwealth Savings Bank to be transferred to the Commonwealth Savings Bank reserves so as to relieve the Commonwealth Savings Bank of the obligation to pay one half of the net profit of the Bank to the Commonwealth Government to be used for revenue purposes. 
