This Government is obsessed with monopolies, but it is a selective obsession. I am sorry that the esteemed Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  is not here to hear me say that I understand many of his reasons why he has introduced a Trade Practices Bill into this Parliament. I support that. Many of the provisions in the Bill refer to restraint of trade, monopoly operations, limits on people to do the things that are competitive. Why then should the Government be so selective as to see that reasoning as referring to the commercial sector of Australia and not apply it to the most personal service that is required by every person in this country? Why does the Government think that a government monopoly removes those dangers that we see in other forms of monopoly operation? Why is it that there is obstinancy and obduracy by Government when it sees itself as providing this very personal service to the people? I find that selective obsession rather illogical. 
Why should a monolithic health service be any different, any better, for the people of Australia than the one which has been developed as part of the Australian need? The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  referred to the Government's scheme as a superior economic system. I think he acknowledges that nowhere is he talking about delivery of health care. A superior economic system in the terms of a government which has reduced the economic management of this country to chaos is something which I find frightening. The other thing about which the Minister spoke this morning was the public interest. Again I find that the Government's attitude to this matter appalling. The public interest is the interest of every individual in Australia. It is not a collective thing. We are not a collective mass. Each and every one of us is an individual with personal responsibilities to assert. When they are usurped by Government, we have no public interest, we have no private interest; we simply have a government which takes all. 
The people do not want this health scheme. Every time an opportunity that has been given to them has been tested a majority of the people of Australia have decided that this is not the scheme that would best serve their personal needs. Why then do we have the obstinate introduction and re-introduction- round and round again- into this Parliament of a scheme which is a disaster to health care as we need it? 
It has been stressed in a cliche that health care is a right. Surely health care is a responsibility. Surely it is a personal responsibility, and it is for each and every one of us for ourselves and our families to accept that responsibility; but surely it is also a responsibility that should be shared by Government. We do not want a Government takeover but a sharing of responsibility between Government and community. Under the existing health scheme the Liberal-Country Party Government progressively closed the gaps as they were found to exist and it assisted those low income groups, such as migrants and pensioners, to have health care. Ours was not a government obsessed with taking over the health scheme. But really, it is not a health scheme that we are talking about; it is a social program. In these Bills at this Joint Sitting of Parliament we are talking about a political system. It is a political system from which the word 'voluntary' has been completely omitted. There is nothing voluntary about any of the procedures which are being developed over these 2 days. Nothing in this political system really talks about the individual Australian and the way in which he or she shall determine how to express the future. 
The other thing which should be acknowledged is that this is part of a package. I am to become a card-carrying Australian for a public health system, a national superannuation scheme and a national compensation scheme. More and more my personal earnings are to be commandeered by the Government for universal schemes which it decides that I want. I do not want them. But if the Government pretends that by having me become a card-carrying Australian I then have no worries, let me just say that I have the greatest worry of all because if that card is withheld from me for political or economic reasons, then I have nothing. The expression of this philosophy is the thing that ought to be examined. What is the motive? What is the premise on which it is based? Is it in the interests of individual Australians to create a monopoly over health services? What about the spirit of the Australian people? Are we so decrepit in spirit that we need to be cared for in every decision which we should take personally? Why is the Government now pleading with the Australian people to get up and go and help the Government out of the economic chaos into which we have plunged? 
Of couse the spirit of Australia will develop its own way of life. This national health scheme and other nationalised programs which we are seeing are not the way in which we will best express the will and the purpose of this nation. We are a responsible people. Every time one of our personal responsibilities is usurped we are diminished in this spirit which we can express for our own development. Why should we try to stifle enterprise in this country? This country has been built on the development of individual enterprise. To see it developing into a socialist political philosophy is something which I feel is frightening. I believe that the people of Australia are reacting to that fear. 
To pretend that this is a system which will give freedom of choice is to overlook so many facets which have to be explored. This scheme has been explored by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  by the shadow minister for social security in our Party and by other speakers. This is a system which does not give the free choice that we want to have expressed. This scheme does not even give us the free choice as to whether we should belong to it or whether we care to be part of the whole program. In the first place, there is to be a compulsory levy. Another aspect about which there is no free choice is the rate of that levy. It started at 1.25 per cent. It has gradually crept up to 1.35 per cent. But what will that provide? If it is not to provide a diminished health service, then, of course, there is no freedom of choice for us as to what the rate will be next year. Independent actuaries have told us that the 1.5 to 1 ratio which the Government initiated in the first place will in no way cover the needs of the present health program. If we talk of a government running something efficiently and effectively we overlook all the other incentives which, in our system of enterprise, provide for efficiency, development and growth. This year it is to be 1.35 per cent. Goodness knows what it will be next year. If the Leader of the Opposition is correct in his figure of some 14 per cent being required for health care, what sort of a levy will we, as individual Australians, have imposed on our tax-paying income? Not only one in the family but every income earner, every taxpayer, in the family will have to pay the compulsory levy. There is no choice in that. The White Paper which was produced stated, in paragraph 7.15, that the total net cost of the Budget, including the effect of tax deductions, will be approximately the same as under the existing health scheme. The Government tells us that it will be a better scheme. We know that costs are escalating. Are we therefore talking about diminishing the actual health care that will be delivered? I think we must be, because there cannot be an equation that is unbalanced to that degree. And who will pay? 
The strong will pay and the cost will be shared by those people who undertake their personal responsibilities. The scheme will be paid for by Australians. It will be paid for in varying degrees by Australians because there are people who are able to pay more and there are people who are prepared to pay more, but there are other Australians who need assistance through Government services. These things are provided in the existing health service. The Government has talked about the freedom to choose a doctor. That is just not possible under the proposed scheme. The doctor whom a person requires to attend him in hospital will have to be an accredited doctor who will work in that hospital. It is not possible for a person to have the doctor of his choice in the hospital of his choice. The Minister, whom I am shadowing with some diligence, mentioned that the Government would increase the government contribution from $2 a day to $16 a day. That will not help me as a Victorian when it costs $55 a day for a private room in a Victorian hospital. 
What will be the future of the private hospital system? Throughout yesterday and today we have seen the desire of the Government for a unitary system of government. Do we want a unitary system of hospital care as well? That is what we are going to have. There is no way by which the private hospital system can maintain its independence and the service it has been able to give. The great teaching hospitals and the hospitals which give spiritual support in time of deep illness and the quality of service that has been provided will of course, be diminished under the proposed system. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said: 'Of course, we cannot nationalise the medical profession, but we can nationalise the public hospitals'. That frightens me. Experience in other countries has shown that there is always the impossibility of delivering care to the people because of the demands on the service and the strains on the service. This will happen in Australia. The problems we have seen in so many other places are natural human problems that exist when there is no restraint on the use that is made of the services which people demand because they pay 1.35, 2 or 10 per cent, or whatever percentage of their taxable income is needed. 
The Government is going into business, not only in pharmaceuticals, as the GovernorGeneral mentioned, in the exploration for minerals and in all sorts of other fields in the national interest but also in private hospitals. In 1972 the Minister for Social Security,  Mr Hayden,  said: 'We would, in fact, build good quality nursing homes at various points in the community according to various types of plans'. The various types of plans that any government department decides upon are plans with doors, doorways and passages of certain dimensions, and all manner of restrictive provisions- not necessarily what is needed to deliver the health service to the people but what some bureaucratic department decides is the type of plan that would best suit that purpose. I want to trace a little how we got into this situation. We have not talked about this. 
I am not talking of that time; I am going back to 1944-45, in the days of a Labor government, when it was decided that the Federal Government had a responsibility in the matter of health care. It was decided that such responsibility would best be discharged by introducing the Pharmaceutical Benefits Act 1944-45. There was a typical Labor government approach. That government introduced the Bill before it found out whether it was constitutionally possible. We had the charade of having to have a constitutional amendment after we had actually enacted the BUI. There was found to be no constitutional validity for the Pharmaceutical Benefits Acts of 1944 and 1945 of the Labor Government. In 1947 we had a constitutional amendment. It was one of the few constitutional amendments carried by the Australian people. Why was it carried? It was carried because it was put by both sides of the Australian Parliament to the people, as has any constitutional amendment which has been successful. 
Both sides of the Parliament had to put forward to the Australian people the sort of amendment to our Constitution which enabled the provision of maternity allowances, widows' pensions, child endowment, unemployment benefits and pharmaceutical, sickness and medical benefits. Do members recall the wonderful clause that was inserted by that amendment? It read: 'But so as not to authorise any form of civil conscription'. Do members know who introduced that? It was the founder of my Party, the Right Honourable Robert Gordon Menzies. He had that clause inserted in a proposed amendment to the Constitution and enabled the Australian people to accept it. Members might wonder at the choice of words: 'But so as not to authorise any form of civil conscription'. He used that phrase not only in his great skill but also in his understanding of the union structure throughout Australia. It was the unions which had insisted on that form of words in an amendment with regard to industrial matters. Is a civil conscription that is not tolerable in industrial matters tolerable to the medical profession or to any other body of Australian people?  Mr Menzies  at that time said that very little doubt existed that the medical and dental professions could be nationalised by making all the doctors and dentists members of one government service which had a monopoly of medical and dental treatment. So  Mr Menzies  introduced into an amendment to the Constitution the words: 'But so as not to introduce any form of civil conscription'. 
That amendment to the Constitution was passed and on that basis we constructed the present medical scheme assisted by government with a voluntary use of medical funds by the Australian people. We have updated that scheme to the point where we have closed many gaps. At the time of the Gorton Government we made very great leaps ahead. At the time that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson was Leader of the Government in the Senate and Minister for Health we closed many more gaps. Progressively the system has been built to serve the Australian people and their health needs. These are things that are of interest. Let me put to the chamber the dangers which we are now facing. When the amendment to the Constitution was passed, the High Court of Australia held that the requirement by the then Labor Government with regard to pharmaceutical benefits was an infringement of the provision of the Constitution relating to civil conscription. Everyone knows the details which were involved. The medical profession could prescribe only on a form that was required by the Government department concerned. If that were upheld by the High Court as an infringement of the Constitution with regard to civil conscription, can members imagine what the High Court of Australia may say not so long ahead with regard to sessional doctors who, under the Hayden health scheme, will be required to deal with government in the way in which this form-filling-in government always requires? 
I wonder at the constitutional opportunities in the future for our High Court to deal with the implementation of the scheme as we are seeing it unfolding in this place. The danger of the scheme is surely the uncosted nature of it. We have talked about government responsibility. We have talked about economic management. We have seen the great strains on our economy at present. We know that when the Government sees these strains it has to curb government expenditure. Will it dismantle the health care program as it has done the child care program? Are we in the hands of a government which, for economic reasons, after having created this monopoly of health care, will plunge into discrimination against certain groups, against services which will be provided and against ancillary services? How will the Government trim its expenditure to its economic needs when we see that it is unable economically to manage this country? 
The dangers of the proposed health scheme on the medical profession, on the private hospital system and on the Australian people make me feel very concerned about the fact that the Government should persist in introducing a scheme which is not wanted. As was pointed out this morning, the Government has trimmed, schemed and tried to by-pass the problems that have been put before it, but at no time has the Government acknowledged that it was wrong; that the proposed health scheme was a theory of some economists. The proposed health scheme may be a superior economic system, but superior to what has not been acknowledged. Although we have been regarded as obstructing the wish of the Australian Government to introduce its health scheme, I believe that I represent the people of Victoria who have elected me to this place, and I assure them that it will not be my vote that will enable a nationalised health scheme to be introduced into this country. 
